CITY CODE
OF
WEISER, IDAHO
Code current through:
Ord. 1272, passed 4-14-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Weiser, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 1272, passed April 14, 2025. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Weiser. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the WEISER CITY CODE, and it is hereby published by
authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date as provided in
section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the city attorney, acting for said
city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall
be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate
chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title
in any legal document. (1987 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1987 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1987 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (1987 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceedings, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1987 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CODE: The city code of Weiser, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Weiser,
Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Washington, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the city of
Weiser".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
1 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the presence of
weeds in violation of chapter 5-3, the presence of graffiti in violation of
chapter 6-8, and the storing of refuse, junk and debris in violation of chapter
7-2, shall be considered a nuisance per se.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the city of
Weiser".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any occupation, business or
profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 1256, 3-9-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 18-311.
   
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by
imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, for any offense 1 , or by a fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00), and no imprisonment, when the offense is designated as an
infraction, by state law or by any section or provision of this code 2 . (1987
Code; amd. Ord. 1256, 3-9-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-714.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor or an infraction, as appropriate. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the city attorney may elect under
which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same
person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1987 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1987
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elective Officials
1-5-2: Appointive Officials
1-5-3: Bonds
1-5-4: Salaries
1-5-5: Extra Duties Specified
1-5-6: Appointment Of Assistants
1-5-1: ELECTIVE OFFICIALS:
The elective officials of the city shall be a mayor and six (6) councilmen,
each being a qualified elector and resident of the city. (1971 Code)
1-5-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICIALS:
The mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the council, a city clerk,
city superintendent, city attorney, police chief, fire chief, city treasurer
and such other officers as may be deemed necessary for the efficient operation
of the affairs of the city. All appointive officers shall serve at the pleasure
of the appointing authority, and any appointive officer may be removed from
office by said authority, and in the said manner as he was originally
appointed. (Ord. 952, 3-24-1986)
1-5-3: BONDS:
The city clerk, city treasurer and such other officers as are designated by the
council shall, before entering upon the duties thereof, execute a bond to the
city in such penal sum as the council may by ordinance determine, conditioned
on the faithful performance of his duties. All official bonds shall be approved
by the council and when so approved shall be filed with the city clerk. (Ord.
952, 3-24-1986)
1-5-4: SALARIES:
The mayor of the city shall be compensated at the rate of seven thousand seven
hundred forty dollars ($7,740.00) per year divided into twelve (12) equal
payments of six hundred forty five dollars ($645.00) each. Each councilman
shall receive the sum of four thousand eight hundred dollars ($4,800.00) per
year divided into twelve (12) equal payments of four hundred dollars ($400.00)
each. The salaries of appointed officials and employees of the city shall be as
set by the mayor and council from time to time in the budget ordinance. (Ord.
1150, 8-19-2003)
1-5-5: EXTRA DUTIES SPECIFIED:
The mayor and council may require any city officer to act in an ex officio
capacity in fulfilling any minor office, and in any such case the salary
provided for such officer shall be in full payment to such officer so appointed
for his services while acting in such ex officio capacity. (Ord. 737, 4-25-
1965; amd. 1987 Code)
1-5-6: APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANTS:
The mayor may appoint and the council confirm as assistant superintendent and
such other employees and at such salaries and compensation as the mayor and
council shall from time to time decide to employ, and any such assistant
superintendent or other employee, when so appointed may be discharged or the
office dispensed with at the pleasure of the mayor and council. (Ord. 737, 4-
25-1965)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Duties
1-6-2: Police Powers
1-6-3: General Powers
1-6-4: Messages To Council
1-6-5: Accounts And Reports Of Officers
1-6-6: Mayor May Require Aid
1-6-7: Veto Power
1-6-8: Vacancy
1-6-1: ELECTION; DUTIES:
The mayor shall be elected for a period of four (4) years, and he shall take
office at the time and in the manner provided for installation of councilmen
and shall have the qualifications as prescribed by the laws of the state of
Idaho.
The mayor shall be the chief administrative official of the city, preside over
the meetings of the city council and determine the order of business subject to
such rules as the council may prescribe, have a vote only when the council is
equally divided, have the superintending control of all the officers and
affairs of the city, preserve order and take care that the provisions of this
code are complied with and enforced. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
1-6-2: POLICE POWERS:
The mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him by ordinance
over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the city for
the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof,
and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him by ordinance, except
taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits of the city and over such
properties as may be owned by the city without the corporate limits. (1971
Code; amd. 1987 Code)
1-6-3: GENERAL POWERS:
The mayor shall have and exercise such powers, prerogatives and authority as is
conferred by the laws of the state or as may be conferred upon him by the
council, and shall have the power to administer oaths, and shall sign all
contracts and conveyances in the name of and on behalf of the city. (1971 Code;
amd. 1987 Code)
1-6-4: MESSAGES TO COUNCIL:
The mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the council such information
and recommend such measures as, in his opinion, may tend to the improvement of
the finances, the protection, the health, the security, the ornament, the
comfort, and the general welfare and prosperity of the city. (1971 Code; amd.
1987 Code)
1-6-5: ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall have the power, when he deems it necessary, to require any
officer of the city to exhibit his accounts or other papers, and to make
written reports pertaining to his office to the council. (1971 Code; amd. 1987
Code)
1-6-6: MAYOR MAY REQUIRE AID:
The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant in the city
over twenty one (21) years to aid in the enforcement of the laws. (1971 Code;
amd. 1987 Code)
1-6-7: VETO POWER:
The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the council;
provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor may pass over his veto by a
vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council,
notwithstanding the veto, and should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance, and return the same with his objections, in writing, at the next
regular meeting of the council, the same shall become law without his
signature. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
1-6-8: VACANCY:
In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of the mayor due to absence or
disability, the president of the council shall exercise the office of mayor
during such disability or temporary absence, and until the mayor shall return.
When a vacancy occurs in the office of the mayor by reason of death,
resignation or permanent disability, the council shall fill the vacancy from
within or without the council as may be deemed in the best interests of the
city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city election, at
which election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year term. (1971
Code; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election
1-7-2: Vacancies
1-7-3: Meetings
1-7-4: President Of The Council
1-7-5: Standing Committees; Representatives
1-7-1: ELECTION:
The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a council consisting
of six (6) members, and shall have the qualifications as prescribed by the laws
of the state, and each such councilman shall hold office for a term of four (4)
years and until his successor is elected and qualified. (1971 Code)
1-7-2: VACANCIES:
In the event an office of councilman shall become vacant through death, removal
of residence or for any other cause, the mayor shall appoint, with the approval
of the council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired portion of the
term to serve until the next general election, at which time the unexpired term
shall be filled by regular election. (1971 Code)
1-7-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The council shall hold regular sessions in the council chambers on the
second Monday of each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. All
meetings shall be conducted under the latest edition of "Robert's Rules Of
Order", and a copy thereof shall be maintained by the clerk at all times. (Ord.
1069, 3-9-1998)
   B.   Special meetings of the council may be called by the mayor or by one-
half (1/2) plus one of the full council, the object of which shall be submitted
to the council in writing, the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the clerk. (Ord. 835, 3-21-1974)
   C.   All meetings of the council shall be open to the public, except that
executive sessions may be closed by the presiding officer pursuant to Idaho
Code section 67-2345. (1987 Code)
1-7-4: PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL:
At the time of taking office, the council shall elect one of its members
president of the council, who shall preside at all meetings of the council and
perform all other duties of the mayor in the absence of the mayor; and, in the
absence of the president, the council shall elect one of their members to
occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled acting president of the
council, and the president and acting president, when occupying the place of
mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the council and all
actions of the president and acting president while so acting shall be binding
upon the council and the city as if performed by the mayor. (1971 Code)
1-7-5: STANDING COMMITTEES; REPRESENTATIVES:
Each standing committee of the council shall consist of two (2) or more
members, to each of which shall be referred all matters pertaining to their
several departments. The standing committees shall be appointed by the mayor,
annually, at the first meeting after the organization of the council, and the
first person named on the committee shall be chairman thereof. The following
shall be the standing committees of the council: (1971 Code)
    Public safety committee
    Public services committee
    Public facilities committee
    Finance committee
    Zoning committee
    Economic development committee (1987 Code)
The mayor shall appoint a councilman to represent the city in the following
various aspects of community facilities and activities: (1971 Code)
    Library representative
    Airport representative
    Recreation representative (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK-COORDINATOR
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created; Residency
1-8-2: Keeper Of Seal And City Documents
1-8-3: Duties In General
1-8-4: Ex Officio Collector
1-8-5: Fees For Copies Of Documents
1-8-6: Warrants Drawn By
1-8-7: Ex Officio City Auditor
1-8-8: Conduct Elections
1-8-9: Issue Licenses
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED; RESIDENCY:
There is hereby created the office of city clerk-coordinator. The office shall
be filled by appointment of the mayor, subject to the approval of the council.
The person appointed to said office shall become a resident of the city within
sixty (60) days. He or she shall be appointed for an indefinite term and shall
be subject to removal at the pleasure of the majority of the council. In
addition to the duties of city clerk, the clerk-coordinator shall assume
administrative duties as established by resolution of the council. (Ord. 1036,
7-17-1995)
1-8-2: KEEPER OF SEAL AND CITY DOCUMENTS:
The city clerk-coordinator shall be the keeper of the seal of the city 1  and
shall affix it to all instruments and papers which by law or ordinance are
required to be attested by the seal of the city. He or she shall have the
custody of and safely keep all public records, documents, ordinances and orders
of the council and such other papers and documents in which the city is
interested as may be delivered into his custody for safekeeping. (Ord. 2, art.
II, sec. 1, 7-24-1900; amd. Ord. 1036, 7-17-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-13-1 of this title.
1-8-3: DUTIES IN GENERAL:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk-coordinator to attend all meetings of
the council, keep minutes of all their proceedings and record the same in a
book to be provided by the council and to be kept in his office. He shall
countersign all warrants drawn on the treasurer and deliver the same when
called for by proper parties. He or she shall draw and countersign all warrants
on the treasurer for compensation of officers upon their request; provided, he
or she shall not in any case draw or sign a warrant for any such compensation
that is not at the time of signing such warrant shown to be clearly due such
officer. He shall do and perform such other duties as may from time to time be
enjoined upon him or her by ordinances or resolutions of the council. He shall
also at the close of each fiscal year, and oftener if required by the council,
make out and bring before them a full and complete statement of receipts and
expenditures of all the fiscal affairs of the city during such year, and cause
the same to be published in some newspaper in the city. (Ord. 2, art. II, sec.
2, 7-24-1900; amd. Ord. 1036, 7-17-1995)
1-8-4: EX OFFICIO COLLECTOR:
The city clerk-coordinator shall be ex officio collector of the city, and shall
in such capacity receive all monies due the city from any source whatever, and
shall issue proper receipts therefor, to the officers and persons entitled
thereto. He shall, upon the second Monday of each month, deliver to the city
treasurer any and all such sums of money received by him as such collector
during the previous month, together with the statement of the different
accounts upon which the several sums were received, and shall take the
treasurer's receipt for the gross amount so deposited with the treasurer. (Ord.
2, art. II, sec. 3, 7-24-1900; amd. Ord. 1036, 7-17-1995)
1-8-5: FEES FOR COPIES OF DOCUMENTS:
Upon demand and payment of such fees therefor, as a county recorder of the
state might receive for similar services, the city clerk-coordinator shall
furnish to any person applying therefor, a copy of any records, paper or
document of any kind in his possession, which copy shall be certified to under
his hand and seal of office. All such fees shall be duly accounted for and paid
to the treasurer in the same manner as other receipts of the clerk-coordinator
are paid in and accounted for. (Ord. 2, art. II, sec. 4, 7-24-1900; amd. Ord.
1036, 7-17-1995)
1-8-6: WARRANTS DRAWN BY:
The city clerk-coordinator shall draw all warrants on the treasurer that shall
be ordered by the council, and such other warrants for compensation of officers
or other purposes as may be now or hereafter provided for by ordinances of the
city. (Ord. 2, art. II, sec. 5, 7-24-1900; amd. Ord. 1036, 7-17-1995)
1-8-7: EX OFFICIO CITY AUDITOR:
The city clerk-coordinator shall be ex officio city auditor, and as such
auditor shall be the general accountant of said city, and shall be constantly
acquainted with the condition of the city treasury, and each demand thereon,
and shall furnish to the council any desired information as to the condition of
such treasury or any fund thereof whenever requested so to do by such council
or any committee or member thereof. (Ord. 2, art. II, sec. 7, 7-24-1900; amd.
Ord. 1036, 7-17-1995)
1-8-8: CONDUCT ELECTIONS:
The clerk-coordinator shall conduct all city elections and do or cause to be
done all things required by charter and ordinance relating thereto. He shall
keep and retain all records relating to city elections and shall have custody
of all property used in connection with city elections. (1987 Code; amd. Ord.
1036, 7-17-1995)
1-8-9: ISSUE LICENSES:
He or she shall issue all licenses and permits granted under the ordinances of
the city and shall keep a register in which shall be entered the name of each
and every person to whom a license is granted, the date of the license, the
purpose for which granted, the sum paid therefor and the date when the same
shall expire. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointment
1-9-2: Duties
1-9-3: Accounts
1-9-4: Monies
1-9-5: Collections
1-9-6: Warrants
1-9-7: Monthly Report
1-9-8: Delivery To Successor
1-9-9: Depositories
1-9-1: APPOINTMENT:
The treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of the
council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1971 Code)
1-9-2: DUTIES:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office, the treasurer shall act to promote, secure and preserve the financial
and property interest of the city. He shall safely keep in designated
depositories all funds belonging to the city and all other securities in safety
deposit boxes of an approved institution designated by the council. (1971 Code)
1-9-3: ACCOUNTS:
The treasurer shall keep in proper books a full and accurate account of all the
monies received and disbursed by him on behalf of the city, specifying the time
of receipt and disbursement, from whom received and to whom disbursed, and on
what account received and disbursed and how paid. (1971 Code)
1-9-4: MONIES:
The treasurer shall receive and have custody of all monies paid to the city and
shall disburse monies upon the official warrant or check of the city when so
ordered by the council. (1971 Code)
1-9-5: COLLECTIONS:
The treasurer shall demand and receive all monies and fees owing to the city
whenever any person is indebted to the city in any manner, and the means of
collection of such debt is not otherwise provided for by law. When any claim
shall not be collectible by other methods, he shall report the same to the city
attorney for prosecution. (1971 Code)
1-9-6: WARRANTS:
Warrants shall be paid by the treasurer from funds available in the order in
which the warrants are presented for payment. When a warrant is presented for
payment and no funds are available, the treasurer shall plainly mark the
warrant "not paid for want of funds" and enter the same in a book maintained
for such purpose which shall be known as the "warrant register". Such warrants
shall bear interest at the amount set at the discretion of the county
commissioners. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
Warrants shall be called for payment in order in which they were presented
whenever sufficient funds are available to the treasurer to make such payment.
The treasurer shall cancel all warrants and other evidences of debt against the
city whenever paid by him, by writing or stamping across the face thereof the
words "paid by treasurer" with the date of payment written or stamped thereon.
These warrants and evidences of debt, so canceled, shall be delivered
immediately to the clerk. (1971 Code)
1-9-7: MONTHLY REPORT:
The treasurer shall make a detailed report to the council during the first week
of each month showing the business of his office during the preceding month,
showing the balance on hand to the credit of the different funds, the amounts
received during the month, and on what account, together with such other
information as may be required by the council. (1971 Code)
1-9-8: DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR:
The treasurer shall deliver to his successor in office all materials, records
and resources of the office. (1971 Code)
1-9-9: DEPOSITORIES:
The council shall designate, from time to time, official depositories for the
monies of the city. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Appointment
1-10-2: Suits And Actions
1-10-3: General Duties
1-10-1: APPOINTMENT:
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to the confirmation
of the council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless
sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1971 Code)
1-10-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law
or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested,
or which may be brought against or by any officer of the city on behalf of the
city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the city. (1971 Code)
1-10-3: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city attorney shall perform such duties as are prescribed by ordinance of
the council and/or by state law, together with the following:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the full enforcement of
all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city, and of all
similar interlocutory orders.
   B.   He shall draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or
other document or instrument to which the city may be a party; and upon request
of the council shall draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of
the city.
   C.   He shall attend meetings of the council when requested so to do by the
mayor and/or council.
   D.   He shall submit legal opinions when requested so to do by the mayor and
council to any city official or employee.
   E.   He shall perform any further service, civil or criminal, required by
statute or ordinance of the city. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 11
PURCHASING AGENT; DEPUTY CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-11-1: Office Created
1-11-2: Duties
1-11-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city purchasing agent and deputy city
clerk, which officer shall have charge of and supervision and control of all
purchases of property of every kind and nature whether in bulk or otherwise
hereafter made by the city. (Ord. 737, 4-22-1965)
1-11-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of such purchasing agent to supervise and keep an accurate
record of all purchases of property hereafter made by the city and to provide
good and sufficient purchase order forms for such purpose and to make and keep
sufficient copies thereof, to keep an accurate set of records of all purchases
to control the disposition of all property purchased by the city subject to the
direction of the mayor and council, to keep an accurate record of the
disposition of all purchases of property by the city and to write such
description and specifications of property to be purchased by the city as may
from time to time be necessary and to make such specifications available upon
request to prospective bidders and sellers of property to the city, to
circulate and make public invitations to bid on property to be purchased by the
city, to examine all property purchased by the city to see that the same
conforms to purchase orders pursuant to which the same has been purchased and
to determine whether or not the same conforms to specifications prepared for
such purchase, and to perform such other and further duties as the mayor and
council may from time to time direct. The purchasing agent shall give an
official bond with corporate surety to be approved by the mayor and council in
the principal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties. (Ord. 737, 4-22-1965)
The purchasing agent, in addition to performing the duties of purchasing agent
herein prescribed, may also act as deputy city clerk, or in such other capacity
as the mayor and council may from time to time direct. (Ord. 737, 4-22-1965;
amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 12
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Wards
1-12-2: Election Officials
1-12-3: Vacancies
1-12-4: Polling Places; Supplies
1-12-5: Conduct Of Elections
1-12-1: WARDS:
The city shall be divided into three (3) wards to be known as the first ward,
second ward and third ward, which said wards are described as follows:
First Ward: All that portion of the city lying east of the north and south
centerline of East Third Street from the north to the south city limits.
Second Ward: All that portion of the city lying between the said west line of
said first ward and a line running through the center of West Third Street from
the north to the south city limits.
Third Ward: All that portion of the city lying west of the said second ward as
herein defined.
In the event of future extensions of the city limits, unless otherwise
provided, the said ward lines shall extend north and south to the new limits
and the new territory shall be part of the ward as extended. (Ord. 617, 2-20-
1951)
1-12-2: ELECTION OFFICIALS:
The council shall, at its first regular meeting in October, prior to each
biennial election, appoint four (4) capable and discreet persons, possessing
the qualifications of electors, for each polling place as election officers.
Two (2) of such persons shall be designated as judges of election and two (2)
of such persons shall be designated as clerks of election.
Such officials shall hold office for the period of two (2) years and shall be
the officials of all elections, both general and special, during that period.
(1971 Code)
1-12-3: VACANCIES:
Any vacancies arising in the office of election officials shall be filled by
the council at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that
purpose. If such vacancy does not become apparent until the time of the opening
of the polls, the qualified electors present may fill such vacancies from any
electors present. (1971 Code)
1-12-4: POLLING PLACES; SUPPLIES:
The council shall designate suitable polling places and cause the same to be
provided with suitable voting compartments, supplies, official stamps, ballot
boxes and such other supplies as the county commissioners are required to
provide for state elections. (1971 Code)
1-12-5: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
All municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with and in conformity
with the election code of the state of Idaho 1  for the conduct of general or
special elections. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 34 and § 50-401 et seq.
CHAPTER 13
OFFICIAL SEAL; NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-13-1: Corporate Seal
1-13-2: Official Newspaper
1-13-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with inner and outer
circles. The outer circle shall be one and fifteen-sixteenth inches (115/16")
in diameter. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2) circles the words
WEISER, WASHINGTON COUNTY, IDAHO and upon the space within the inner circle the
words Incorporated Oct. 12, 1887 and shall be the official corporate seal of
the city. The city clerk shall be the custodian of said seal 1 . (Ord. 35, 7-
24-1900)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-8-2 of this title.
1-13-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Weiser Signal American", or any other newspaper of general circulation
within the city, is hereby designated and constituted the official newspaper of
the city and such writings as is required under and by virtue of state law and
the governing body of the city to be published shall be published in said
newspaper. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 14
ORDINANCES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Presentment Of Ordinances
1-14-2: Manner Of Passing
1-14-3: Endorsement After Passage
1-14-4: Passage Over Mayor's Veto
1-14-5: Ordinance Becomes Law Without Signature
1-14-6: Preservation Of Ordinances
1-14-7: Summarization Of Ordinances Permitted; Requirements
1-14-1: PRESENTMENT OF ORDINANCES:
All ordinances of the city shall be in the manner and style and be subject to
the terms and conditions of section 50-901 et seq., of the Idaho Code. (1971
Code)
1-14-2: MANNER OF PASSING:
Every ordinance shall be read in meetings of the council on three (3) different
days. At each reading of the ordinance it shall be open to discussion and
amendment and may be referred to a committee and shall be passed to the next
reading unless by vote of the meeting some other disposition was made. All
ordinances which have been amended shall, after the second reading be engrossed
by the clerk as amended. On final passage, the yeas and nays shall be called
and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of the members of the council
shall be required for passage; provided, however, that one-half (1/2) plus one
of all the members elected to the council may dispense with the portions of
this section requiring all ordinances to be read on three (3) different days,
and on the vote upon the motion to dispense with the above provisions, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. (Ord. 764, 10-5-1967)
1-14-3: ENDORSEMENT AFTER PASSAGE:
When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the clerk and the date
of its passage by the council shall be added thereto, and it shall, within
three (3) days thereafter be presented to the mayor, or, in the case of his
absence from the city, to the president of the council, for his approval. If he
approves the same, he shall attach his signature thereto. (Ord. 530, 1-11-1946)
1-14-4: PASSAGE OVER MAYOR'S VETO:
Should the mayor not approve the ordinance, he shall, before the next regular
meeting after such ordinance is presented to him for his approval, return the
same to the council with his objections to the same in writing. When any
ordinance is so returned by the mayor, it shall be reconsidered by the council
at the first regular meeting thereafter. If, on such consideration, two-thirds
(2/3) of the members elected to the council shall vote in the affirmative, the
ordinance shall become law notwithstanding the mayor's veto. The clerk, in such
case, shall annex a certificate to the ordinance stating that the same was
vetoed by the mayor and that on its reconsideration, it received the required
majority of votes. (Ord. 530, 1-11-1946)
1-14-5: ORDINANCE BECOMES LAW WITHOUT SIGNATURE:
Should the mayor refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and return the same
with his objections in writing at the next regular meeting after the same has
been presented to him, it shall become law without his signature. The clerk
shall attach to such ordinance a certificate to the effect that the mayor has
failed to sign or veto the same, and it has therefore become a law without his
signature. (Ord. 530, 1-11-1946)
1-14-6: PRESERVATION OF ORDINANCES:
It shall be the duty of the clerk to safely keep the original ordinances as
engrossed and after final passage he shall copy the same at length in a book to
be known as ordinance book of the city of Weiser, no.       , which book is to
be provided by the council for that purpose and shall be kept as a permanent
record of the city. (Ord. 530, 1-11-1946)
1-14-7: SUMMARIZATION OF ORDINANCES PERMITTED; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In lieu of publishing the entire ordinance under Idaho Code section 50-
901, the city may publish a summary of the ordinance; which summary shall be
approved by the governing body and shall include:
      1.   The name of the city;
      2.   The formal identification or citation number of the ordinance;
      3.   A descriptive title;
      4.   A summary of the principal provisions of the ordinance, including
penalties provided and the effective date;
      5.   Any other information necessary to provide an accurate summary; and
      6.   A statement that the full text is available at the city hall.
   B.   Subsection A of this section notwithstanding, whenever any publication
is made under this section and the proposed or adopted ordinance contains legal
descriptions or contains provisions regarding taxation or penalties concerning
real property, then the sections containing this matter shall be published in
full and shall not be summarized. When a legal description of real property is
involved, the notice shall also include the street address or addresses of the
property described, if any. In the case of descriptions covering one or more
street addresses, the street addresses of the corners of the area described
shall meet this requirement. Maps may be substituted for written legal
description of property provided they contain sufficient detail to clearly
define the area with which the ordinance is concerned.
   C.   Before submission of a summary to a newspaper for publication under
this section, the legal advisor of the city shall sign a statement, which shall
be filed with the ordinance, that the summary is true and complete and provides
adequate notice to the public. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 15
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
1-15-1: Creation; Purpose
1-15-2: Powers
1-15-3: Charter
1-15-4: Board Of Directors
1-15-5: Conduct Of Affairs; Officers
1-15-6: Conflicts Of Interest
1-15-7: Monies; Lending Or Use Of
1-15-1: CREATION; PURPOSE:
   A.   The city of Weiser (the "city") does hereby create a public corporation
to carry out the purposes of the act 1 . This chapter shall not be construed to
limit or restrict the purposes of the act, but shall be liberally construed to
effect such purposes.
   B.   The name of the public corporation shall be the Industrial Development
Corporation Of Weiser, Idaho (the "corporation"). (Ord. 958, 5-12-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 50, ch. 27, as amended.
1-15-2: POWERS:
   A.   The corporation shall have all the powers and be subject to all the
limitations and provisions contained in the act.
   B.   The corporation shall have all the powers granted by the act. Such
powers shall include, without limitation, all powers set forth in the charter.
(Ord. 958, 5-12-1986)
1-15-3: CHARTER:
A charter (the "charter") is hereby issued by the city to the corporation. The
charter grants to the corporation all powers authorized by the act. A copy of
the charter is on file in the office of the city clerk and is incorporated
herein by reference. The charter is hereby approved pursuant to section 50-2703
(1) of the act. The charter may be amended from time to time by the city
council. The existence of the corporation commences at the time the enactment
of this chapter becomes effective. (Ord. 958, 5-12-1986)
1-15-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The board of directors of the corporation (the "board") shall be comprised of
five (5) residents of the city. The initial members of the board and all
subsequent members shall be appointed by the city council. Of the members first
appointed, one member shall serve for a term of one year, two (2) for a term of
two (2) years and two (2) for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, upon
expiration of a term of appointment, each member shall be appointed to a three
(3) year term. If a vacancy occurs during an unexpired term, the mayor, with
the consent of the city council, shall appoint a member, who shall be a
resident of the city, to serve the remainder of the unexpired term. A majority
of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum, and the approval of a
majority of a quorum shall be necessary for the board to take any action. (Ord.
958, 5-12-1986)
1-15-5: CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS; OFFICERS:
   A.   The affairs of the corporation shall be conducted and carried out by
the board. The board shall elect officers from among its own members. Such
officers shall be elected at the initial meeting of the board in each calendar
year, shall serve until their successors have been duly elected, and shall
include a president and a secretary and may include a vice president and an
assistant secretary. The board may elect such other officers as it shall from
time to time determine to be necessary or desirable. The board shall adopt
bylaws and/or rules and regulations governing the filling of vacancies in
offices, the scheduling, giving notice of and conduct of meetings, and the
conduct of the corporation. Such bylaws, rules and regulations may be amended
from time to time by the board, provided that any such amendments shall be
consistent with the provisions hereof.
   B.   Members of the board shall serve without compensation but with
reimbursement of expenses as may be provided in the bylaws, rules and
regulations of the board. (Ord. 958, 5-12-1986)
1-15-6: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, employee or official of the corporation shall have
a direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in or
any contract for property, service or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facility financed through the
corporation. (Ord. 958, 5-12-1986)
1-15-7: MONIES; LENDING OR USE OF:
   A.   The city may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the
corporation except as expressly authorized by the act. This provision shall not
preclude the city from dealing with the corporation on an arms length basis.
   B.   Any net earnings of the corporation beyond those necessary for
retirement of indebtedness incurred by it shall inure to the city and not for
the benefit of any other person. Alteration of the charter or dissolution of or
audits of the corporation shall be as provided by the act and by subsequent
ordinances of the city. Upon dissolution of the corporation, title to all
property owned by the corporation shall vest in the city. (Ord. 958, 5-12-1986)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIBRARY BOARD; LIBRARY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created; Appointment
2-1-2: Organization
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Library Established
2-1-5: Library Fund
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established a library board of the city, consisting of five (5)
members to be appointed by the council. The council shall also annually appoint
one of its members to serve as liaison to the board without voting rights. The
members of the library board shall be citizens of the city and shall hold their
offices for five (5) years from the date of their appointment and until their
successors are appointed, except the board first appointed shall by lot at its
first meeting divide itself into five (5) classes; one member shall form the
first class and serve for one year from the date of appointment; one member
shall form the second class and serve for two (2) years from the date of
appointment; one member shall form the third class and shall serve for three
(3) years from the date of appointment; one member shall form the fourth class
and shall serve for four (4) years from the date of appointment; and one member
shall form the fifth class and shall serve for five (5) years from the date of
appointment. All vacancies on the board shall be immediately reported to the
council by the board, and shall be filled by appointment in the same manner as
the original appointments. Appointments to complete an unexpired term shall be
for the residue of the term only.
No director shall be paid or receive any compensation whatsoever. (Ord. 1012,
5-10-1993)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION:
The directors of the library board shall, as soon as practical after their
appointment, meet and organize by the election of one of their number as
president and by the election of such other officers as they may deem
necessary. (Ord. 762, 9-7-1967)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The library board shall make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for
their own guidance, and for the government of the library and reading rooms as
may be expedient. They shall have the exclusive control of the expenditures of
all monies collected for the library fund, and the supervision, care and
custody of the room or building set apart for library purposes. (Ord. 762, 9-7-
1967)
2-1-4: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established and created a free library and reading room for the
use of the inhabitants of the city. Such library shall be subject to such
reasonable rules and regulations as the library board of the city may find
necessary to adopt in order to render the use of the library and reading room
of the greatest benefit to the greatest number, and such board may, by rule,
provide for the exclusion from the use of such library and reading room, of any
and all persons who shall wilfully violate the established rules of the board.
(Ord. 443, 2-10-1932)
2-1-5: LIBRARY FUND:
All money for library purposes shall be placed in the custody of the city
treasurer and shall be paid out by him on proper voucher duly authenticated by
the library board. All persons desirous of making donations of money or other
personal property or real estate for the benefit of such library shall have a
right to vest title to such property in the board of directors created under
the provisions of this chapter, and all such property shall be held and
controlled by said board as trustees under the name of "directors of the
library board of the city of Weiser". (Ord. 762, 9-7-1967)
The library fund and the expenditures by the directors of the library board
shall be audited annually and included in the city audit. (Ord. 984, 12-12-
1989)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created
2-2-2: Qualifications; Terms Of Office
2-2-3: Rules; Organization And Meetings
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Removal Of Members
2-2-6: Recommendation, Adoption, Amendment And Repeal Of The Plan And Zoning
Ordinances
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a commission to be known and designated as the planning
and zoning commission, which said commission shall consist of seven (7) members
to be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. In addition
thereto, there shall be one ex officio member of said commission who shall be a
city councilman and who shall have no voting powers 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6501 et seq.
2-2-2: QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE:
Six (6) appointive members of the planning and zoning commission shall be
resident taxpayers and must have resided in the county for two (2) years prior
to his or her appointment and must remain a resident of the city during his or
her service on the commission. The seventh member shall be a resident of the
area of impact as defined by section
10-16-2 of this code. The term of office for the ex officio member shall
correspond to his respective tenure of office as councilman of the city. The
terms for each appointive member shall be four (4) years. Vacancies occurring
otherwise and through the expiration of terms shall be filled by the mayor and
confirmed by the council. Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliation and shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 1115, 2-12-
2001)
2-2-3: RULES; ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The clerk of the planning and zoning commission and shall keep records of all
matters before said commission. The commission shall, when there is business to
transact, conduct its meetings at least once each month and more often as the
business to be transacted before said commission requires. The commission shall
adopt such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to carry into effect the
provisions and purposes of this code, and it shall hold such meetings and meet
at such designated places from time to time and conduct public hearings as the
commission, or majority thereof, may determine. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
At the first meeting, the commission shall elect one of their number as
chairman, the ex officio member not being qualified for said office. On the
first meeting date of January of each year thereafter, the commission shall
meet and organize by electing a chairman to serve as such for the term of one
year.
A majority of the appointive members of the commission shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum at any meeting or public hearing. All meetings shall be
open to the public; and a written record of the meetings, resolutions, findings
and determinations shall be kept, which said record shall be public. (1971
Code)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Said commission shall conduct and hold all public hearings where required by
zoning laws of this code 1  and the laws of the state in respect thereto. It
shall be the duty of the commission to:
   A.   Recommend and make suggestions to the city council, for the adoption of
coordinated plans for the physical development of the city; for the formation
of zoning districts.
   B.   Make recommendations and suggestions concerning the laying out,
widening, extending and locating of streets, roads and highways and the relief
of traffic.
   C.   Make recommendations and suggestions concerning density of population
and development of land within the jurisdiction of the city.
   D.   Make recommendations and suggestions concerning the future growth,
development and beautification of the city in respect to its public buildings,
streets, parks, grounds and lands, consistent with the future growth and
development of the city in order to promote the public health, morale, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants thereof.
   E.   Give recommendations and suggestions and advice to individuals
concerning landscaping or location of buildings, structures or works to be
erected, constructed or altered by or for such individual.
   F.   Cooperate with other appointed boards or commissions for the general
welfare of the city.
   G.   Recommend and suggest platting and subdivisions to the city council.
   H.   Review and recommend on all subdivision plans and other proposed land
developments.
   I.   Review and make recommendations on all amendments to the zoning code
including revisions thereof.
   J.   Review all special exceptions permitted under zoning law which involve
major land use.
   K.   Undertake such surveys and studies and prepare such reports as may be
required or requested by the council to carry out the planning program.
   L.   Recommend and suggest the zoning districts with regulations to be
enforced within such district in accordance with the comprehensive plan and
designed to lessen congestion in the streets.
   M.   Secure from fire, panic and other damages; promote health and general
welfare; provide adequate light and air; prevent the overcrowding of land;
avoid undue concentration of population; and facilitate the adequate provision
of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
   N.   Conserve the value of buildings by appropriate regulations and
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
   O.   Recommend and suggest to the council such regulations and restrictions,
the boundaries of such districts, how they will be determined, established and
enforced, and from time to time amended, supplemented or changed. No such
regulation, restriction or boundary or amendment thereof, however, shall become
effective until a public hearing is had in relation thereto, at which parties
in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
2-2-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Should any member of the said commission be absent from two (2) consecutive
duly called meetings of the commission and from two (2) consecutive public
hearings conducted under the provisions of this chapter, said member shall be
subject to removal from the commission at the pleasure of the mayor. Such
removal shall be effectuated by a written notice to such member stating the
intent to remove and the reasons therefor. Any person aggrieved by such a
decision may, within fifteen (15) days after receiving such notice, request a
hearing before the full council. (1971 Code)
2-2-6: RECOMMENDATION, ADOPTION, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF THE PLAN AND ZONING
ORDINANCES:
The procedures for adoption, amending and repealing the comprehensive plan or
zoning ordinances as set forth in chapter 65, title 67, Idaho Code are hereby
adopted by reference. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-2: Appointment; Term; Vacancy; Qualifications
2-3-3: Organization; Officers
2-3-4: Purpose Of Commission
2-3-5: Responsibility
2-3-6: Removal Of Members
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a commission consisting of five (5) members, to be
known as the recreation commission of the city of Weiser. Four (4) of the five
(5) members shall be residents of the city of Weiser at the time of their
appointment. One of the five (5) members shall be appointed without restriction
as to their residency. (Ord. 1227, 9-14-2011)
2-3-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM; VACANCY; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Members of said commission shall be chosen by the mayor by and with the
approval of the members of the council, and said members shall be
representatives from at large and with one member being from the city council.
An appointed member shall have an interest in recreation programs for the youth
of this community and suffer no legal prohibition from working with youth.
(Ord. 1056, 4-14-1997)
   B.   The term of office of the commissioners shall be three (3) years. All
members of the first commission, except the one representing the city council,
shall draw lots; two (2) members to serve for one year; two (2) members to
serve for two (2) years; and two (2) members to serve for three (3) years; and
thereafter, the vacancies caused on the commission shall be filled by
appointment by the mayor with the approval of the council. In the event of any
vacancy, the council shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired term. (Ord. 592,
3-17-1949; amd. 1987 Code)
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS:
As soon as such commission is appointed, the members shall meet and elect a
chairman, vice chairman and secretary, who shall serve until the first
Wednesday in January of the following year. A new chairman shall be elected on
the first Wednesday in January of each year to serve a one year term. Said
commission shall hold regular quarterly meetings and such additional meetings
from time to time as they may deem necessary. Such meetings shall be open to
the public. The vice chairman, in the absence of the chairman, shall perform
all of the duties of said chairman. The secretary shall keep the minutes and
records of the commission and shall perform such other duties as from time to
time may be placed upon the secretary by the commission. (Ord. 1227, 9-14-2011)
2-3-4: PURPOSE OF COMMISSION:
It shall be the purpose of the recreation commission to further recreation for
the city and surrounding area; to secure data relative to recreation projects
and assemble same and make reports to the council for its approval, and to make
recommendations to the council relative to recreation matters and give
supervision to the recreation director; and, when necessary, designate
maintenance men to conduct the recreation program. (Ord 592, 3-17-1949)
2-3-5: RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of said commission to follow through on all
recreation projects approved by the council and subject to the approval of the
council, to establish policies to promote the highest standards for recreation
activities, and to keep informed relative to monthly budget disbursement and
balance in recreation fund established by the council. No purchases which are
chargeable to the recreation fund shall be made except upon designated city
purchase order forms, which in turn must be approved by the recreation
commission's city council representative. Also, all claim vouchers must be
submitted and approved by the recreation commission's city council member prior
to submission of same to the council for payment. (Ord. 592, 3-17-1949)
2-3-6: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Should any member of the said commission be absent from three (3) consecutive
duly called meetings of the commission conducted under the provisions of this
chapter, said member shall be subject to removal from the commission at the
pleasure of the mayor. Such removal shall be effectuated by a written notice to
such member stating the intent to remove and the reasons therefor. Any person
aggrieved by such a decision may, within fifteen (15) days after receiving such
notice, request a hearing before the full council. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Established, Purpose And Goal
2-4-2: Membership And Appointment
2-4-3: Terms Of Office
2-4-4: Powers And Duties
2-4-5: Meetings And Rules
2-4-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED, PURPOSE AND GOAL:
There is hereby established an "economic development commission" for the
purpose of structuring a sound economic development program through conducting
such research and inventory of resources and preparation of industrial facts
and profiles to be used as presentations to industrial and commercial prospects
considering expansion, development or location in the Weiser area. Said
commission shall make its findings and recommendations to the city council in
the manner prescribed herein.
The commission shall have for its purpose and goal the development of a plan to
implement the proper economic development of the area, and is authorized to
coordinate its activities with other agencies, boards and committees within the
city and similar agencies, boards and committees in the area, and such regional
organizations, railroads, utilities and the state department of business and
economic development as will effect a successful program of economic expansion.
(Ord. 959, 6-16-1986)
2-4-2: MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT:
The economic development commission shall consist of six (6) members, one of
whom shall be elected chairman. The appointments to the commission shall be
made by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
In addition to the six (6) members of the commission, the mayor or his
designee, shall serve as ex officio member and the chairman of the planning
commission of the city or his designee, shall also be an ex officio member of
the commission. (Ord. 959, 6-16-1986)
2-4-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The members of the commission shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years.
The terms shall begin January 1, 1986. However members appointed at the onset
shall be for the following terms; two (2) members for a three (3) year term,
two (2) members for a two (2) year term, and two (2) members for a one year
term. (Ord. 959, 6-16-1986)
2-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Expenditures And Collection Of Funds: The economic development
commission shall be authorized to expend no municipal funds other than those
appropriated and approved by the city council.
   B.   Enlist Volunteer Services: The economic development commission is
authorized to enlist the volunteer service of such other members of the
community who will assist in achieving the goals of sound economic growth
recognizing broad community involvement will assure broad community support.
(Ord. 959, 6-16-1986)
2-4-5: MEETINGS AND RULES:
The economic development commission shall meet at least once monthly on a
regularly established date. It shall also conduct special meetings on call of
the chairman.
The economic development commission shall adopt such rules governing its
procedures and regulating its business as it from time to time shall deem
appropriate. Such rules and procedures may be adopted, amended, or repealed by
the majority vote of the commission members present. (Ord. 959, 6-16-1986)
CHAPTER 5
WEISER AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation
2-5-1: CREATION:
The Weiser airport commission is hereby created and established by action of
the common council of the city pursuant to the provisions and authority
conferred by article 12, section 2 of the Idaho state constitution and title
21, chapter 5 and title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 902, 7-28-1980)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Investigations
3-1-6: Termination Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Frontage Consents
3-1-10: Nuisances
3-1-11: Inspections
3-1-12: Revocation
3-1-13: Posting Of License
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (1971 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (1971 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor, shall be prepared
and kept on file by the clerk. (1971 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (1971 Code)
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer
for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10)
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The "health authority"
as defined in section
3-6-1 of this title shall make or cause to be made an inspection in regard to
such licenses in the connection of the care and handling of food and the
preventing of nuisances and the spread of disease. For the protection of
health, the building inspector shall make or cause to be made any such
inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures. All
other investigations, except where otherwise provided. shall be made by the
chief of police or by some other officer designated by the mayor. (1971 Code;
amd. 1987 Code)
3-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the calendar year of the
city where no provision to the contrary is made. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
The clerk shall mail to all licensees of the city a statement of the time of
expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual, three (3) weeks
prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, that failure to send out such
notice or failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse the licensee
from failure to obtain a new license or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a
defense in an action for operation without a license. (1971 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. No such license
or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinance of the city 1 .
(1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act, may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the clerk; provided, the building, zoning
and frontage consent requirements of this code are complied with. (1971 Code)
3-1-9: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
   A.   Whenever the consent of the adjoining or neighboring owners is required
as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location
of any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures, to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with
the clerk when signed.
   B.   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn, and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
represent falsely that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   D.   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was
properly secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by this code.
   E.   The frontage consent requirements contained herein shall not be
construed to amend or change any zoning ordinance provision of the city; and no
such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning ordinance of the city. (1971 Code)
3-1-10: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (1971 Code)
3-1-11: INSPECTIONS:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
this code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or employee of
the city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any code provision or to detect violations thereof, it
shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose business is governed by
such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the city
requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such
analysis upon request.
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may revoke
the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the city who
refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make such
inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate
sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee
while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection. Provided, that
no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon
the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it sought to make
the inspection or obtain the sample. (1971 Code)
3-1-12: REVOCATION:
Any license, permit or business regulation certificate for a limited time may
be revoked by the mayor and city council during the life of such license,
permit or business regulation certificate for the violation by the licensee,
permittee or business certificate holder of any provision relating to the
license, permit or business regulation certificate, the subject of the license,
permit or business regulation certificate, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The mayor, city and the
council shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any business regulation
certificate, license or permit for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the business regulation certificate, license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a business
regulation certificate, license or permit shall be given in writing setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of
hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the certificate holder or permittee at
his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date for the
hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the certificate holder, licensee or
permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit
evidence and cross examine witnesses. The mayor shall preside and shall render
the decision and recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business regulation certificates, licenses and
permits issued under the ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may
be revoked by the mayor and city council after notice and hearing as provided
in subsections B and C of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the business regulation certificate, license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the certificate holder, licensee or permittee of
ordinance provisions or state law relating to the business regulation
certificate, license or permit, the subject matter of the business regulation
certificate, license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the certificate holder, licensee or permittee of any
felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the certificate holder, licensee or permittee to pay any
fine or penalty owing to the city;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code. (1987 Code)
3-1-13: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BEER
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Qualifications For License
3-2-5: Fees
3-2-6: Hours Of Sale
3-2-7: Regulations
3-2-8: Revocation
3-2-9: Adoption Of State Laws
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall be construed to have
the meanings herein given:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water of not
more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (1971 Code)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of or sell beer without first
obtaining a proper license therefor. (1971 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a retail beer license shall be made under oath to the city
clerk and the application shall show that the applicant possesses all of the
qualifications required by this code. Each application shall be forwarded,
after proper and adequate investigation by the chief of police, to the council
for approval or disapproval. (1971 Code)
3-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who:
      1.   Is not the bona fide owner of such business, or is not a citizen of
the United States or has not been a bona fide resident of the state of Idaho
for a period of one year prior to the date of application; provided, that if
the applicant is a partnership, all partners shall be such citizens, and at
least one thereof or the actual manager thereof shall have been such resident;
and if the applicant is a corporation, such corporation shall be qualified to
do business in the state of Idaho, and the manager of such business place shall
be such citizen and shall have been such resident.
      2.   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer or employee or
spouse of which has, been convicted of the violation of any laws of the state
of Idaho or of the United States regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale
of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor, or has within two (2) years
forfeited or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for his appearance to answer
charges of any such violation.
      3.   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer of which has, been
convicted of any felony within five (5) years or has paid any fine or completed
any sentence of confinement thereof within five (5) years. (1971 Code)
   B.   A retailer licensee must continue throughout the license period to have
all of the foregoing qualifications and none of the foregoing
disqualifications, and upon the failure to so comply, upon proof thereof to the
city, the city shall revoke the license issued. The city shall also, in writing
sent by United States registered mail, notify each of the other issuers of
retail licenses to the licensee stating sufficient facts for identification of
the licensee and grounds and date of revocation. (Ord. 982, 10-9-1989)
3-2-5: FEES:
   A.   The fee for the sale of beer shall be as follows:
      1.   Where draft beer or bottled beer or canned beer or draft and bottled
beer and canned beer is sold to the customer and consumed on the premises where
sold, two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum.
      2.   Where bottled beer and canned beer only is sold to the customer and
not consumed on the premises where sold, fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum.
   B.   The license fees required herein shall be in addition to all other
license fees required by other laws and provisions of this code. All licenses
issued shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 for each
year of the issuance. (Ord. 914, 8-10-1981)
3-2-6: HOURS OF SALE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any day. (Ord. 1178, 10-
11-2005)
3-2-7: REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer beer to any person under the age
limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code and it shall be unlawful for any
person under the age limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code to
frequent, loiter in or about or patronize any beer dispensary and it shall
likewise be unlawful for any owner of such beer dispensary or his employees to
permit any such person under the age limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho
Code to be in or to be employed in such dispensary. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-2-8: REVOCATION:
The council shall retain the right at all times to revoke and cancel any
license for just cause, pursuant to the suspension, notice and hearing
provisions of section
3-1-12 of this title. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-2-9: ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS:
There are hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of the state of Idaho,
being particularly title 23, Idaho Code, as presently in effect, or as may
hereafter be amended by the legislature and as contained in that certain volume
known as "Idaho liquor and beer laws", revised through the acts of the 1969
legislature, published by authority of the department of law enforcement,
liquor law division, as the same may be revised by the legislature or by the
governing body of the city, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
an ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the Idaho liquor and beer laws, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the clerk, shall be kept on file in
the office of the clerk for use and examination of and by the public. (1971
Code)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-3-1: Licensed Liquor Sale
3-3-2: Application For License
3-3-3: Requirements
3-3-4: Fees
3-3-5: License Nontransferable
3-3-6: Licenses Limited
3-3-7: Revocation And Hearing
3-3-8: Access To Premises
3-3-9: Premises Requirements
3-3-10: Prohibited Sales And Conduct
3-3-11: Adoption Of State Laws
3-3-1: LICENSED LIQUOR SALE:
It shall be lawful to sell liquor by the drink as provided by the laws of this
state, as amended, provided a license shall first be obtained as provided in
this chapter and the rules and regulations and provisions concerning the
licensing and operation of a place of business for the sale of liquor are
adhered to as provided. (1971 Code)
3-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before there shall be any lawful sale of liquor by the drink, an application by
the proposed licensee must be made for such license and filed with the clerk in
form and manner herein provided. Such application shall provide for the name of
the applicant, the location of the proposed business, and such other
information as may be prescribed and required by the council. At the time said
application is filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of an application
for a state license and also the license issued by the state for the sale of
liquor by the drink at retail and no license will be issued until a license is
first obtained from the state of Idaho.
All applications filed with the clerk shall be referred to the council for
final approval. The clerk shall receive the license fee hereinafter provided at
the time of filing of the application and upon approval of the application by
the council, the license will be issued and delivered to the applicant. (1971
Code)
3-3-3: REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor by the drink to any person
not qualified for a license under state law, nor upon any premises in any
neighborhood which is predominantly residential, nor within three hundred feet
(300') of any school, church or other place of public worship. (1971 Code)
3-3-4: FEES:
The license fee required of any applicant for the sale of liquor by the drink
shall be the sum of five hundred sixty two dollars fifty cents ($562.50) per
calendar year or portion thereof payable in advance. The payment shall be made
with said application for the balance of the calendar year in which the license
is issued. All licenses issued shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on December 31 of each calendar year. Renewals may be granted upon application,
if the record of the applicant is satisfactory to the council and in accordance
with the provisions of the law and this chapter and upon payment of the above
mentioned fee for the ensuing year. Any operation under an expired license
shall constitute a violation of this code for each such day of operation. (1971
Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-3-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
nontransferable and if the licensee named in said license shall cease to
personally supervise, conduct and operate said business described in said
license, the same shall terminate, and no part of the fee paid shall be
refunded. The licensee may, however, with the consent of the council, move from
the place of business to some other place which may meet the requirements of
this chapter; provided, application therefor be made to the council and
permitted by it; and if such transfer of the place of business shall be made,
the fee paid shall be operative with like effect as if no change had been made.
(1971 Code)
3-3-6: LICENSES LIMITED:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be limited to not
more than four (4) according to the provisions and restrictions contained in
Idaho Code section 23-903; provided, however, that any licenses now existing
may be continuously renewed each year upon compliance with all of the other
provisions of this chapter. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-3-7: REVOCATION AND HEARING:
If any licensee or employee of a liquor by the drink establishment violates any
of the provisions of this chapter or is convicted of the violation of any of
the provisions of state law, the council is hereby authorized and empowered to
revoke the license issued to said licensee; provided, however, that in the
event it is brought to the attention of the council that a violation has taken
place, before revoking such license the council shall cause notice to be served
upon the licensee setting forth in general terms the violation or violations
claimed to have been committed, and such notice shall provide a time for
hearing thereon by the council which date of hearing shall be not less than
five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the date of the service of
notice that the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of the laws of the
state of Idaho have been violated, shall revoke such license theretofore issued
and no refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall be made to the
licensee. A revocation by the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state of Idaho of any license theretofore issued said licensee shall
automatically revoke the license issued by the city and no refund of any fee
theretofore paid shall be made. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-3-8: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
All peace officers appointed by the state of Idaho or the city or the county
shall have free access at all times to the licensed premises, and any
information touching the manner and method of the operation of said premises or
the sale of said liquor may be submitted to the council upon any investigation
made of said licensee. (1971 Code)
3-3-9: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
Every licensee must conform to all regulations and laws of the state of Idaho
and the provisions of this chapter. Liquor by the drink shall not be sold by
any person except one duly licensed. Full and unobstructed view of the inside
of the premises where said liquor by the drink is sold shall always be
maintained by the licensee and no obstructions whatever shall be placed upon
the windows or the doors that are located on said premises and no coloring
shall be placed upon the glass in order that a full view from the sidewalk or
street may be had into the interior of said premises. All premises shall be
adequately lighted and subject to periodic sanitary inspection. No gambling of
any kind or character shall be operated upon said premises and no gambling
device shall be maintained thereon. (1971 Code)
3-3-10: PROHIBITED SALES AND CONDUCT:
No sale of liquor shall be made to any minor nor to any intoxicated person who
may engage in disorderly or improper conduct and no disorderly or improper
entertainment shall be permitted upon said premises and any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered and shall likewise be grounds
for the cancellation and revocation of the license. (1971 Code)
3-3-11: ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS:
There are hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of the state of Idaho,
being particularly title 23, Idaho Code, as presently in effect or as may
hereafter be amended by the legislature and as contained in that certain volume
known as "Idaho liquor and beer laws", revised through the acts of the 1969
legislature, published by authority of the department of law enforcement,
liquor law division, as the same may be revised by the legislature or by the
council, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the
city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the Idaho liquor and beer laws, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the clerk, shall be kept on file in
the office of the clerk for use and examination of and by the public. (1971
Code)
CHAPTER 4
WINE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Qualifications
3-4-5: License Fee And Term
3-4-6: Issuance Of License
3-4-7: Consumption On Premises (Rep. by Ord. 1178, 10-11-2005)
3-4-8: Possession
3-4-9: Misrepresentation Of Age
3-4-10: Revocation Of License
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of law enforcement of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well
as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the director, authorizing a person to
sell wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 809, 6-29-1971)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the corporate
limits of the city after having first procured a license therefor. (Ord. 809,
6-29-1971)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the city clerk. Such application
shall be filed by the city clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the
next meeting of the council for their approval, rejection or further
consideration. (Ord. 809, 6-29-1971)
3-4-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications and none of
the disqualifications necessary to obtain a license from the director of the
department of law enforcement of the state, as prescribed by the laws of the
state, and maintain such qualifications throughout the period for which such
license is issued. The possession of licenses regularly issued by the
department of law enforcement and the county in addition to a city beer
license, shall be prima facie evidence of the applicant's qualifications to
receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 809, 6-29-1971)
3-4-5: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
   A.   The license fee imposed and collected for the sale of wine shall be as
follows:
      1.   Where wine is sold to the customer and consumed on the premises
where sold, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.
      2.   Where bottled wine only is sold to the customer and not consumed on
the premises where sold, the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum.
   B.   The license year shall be from one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M., January 1 through December 31. (Ord. 918, 12-14-1981)
3-4-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing of the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
3-4-4 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and the payment
of the required license fee, the city clerk shall, upon approval of the
council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within the
city for such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 809, 6-29-1971)
3-4-7: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
(Rep. by Ord. 1178, 10-11-2005)
3-4-8: POSSESSION:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this city, have in his possession any wine in an open or
unsealed container of any kind. (Ord. 809, 6-29-1971; amd. 1987 Code)
3-4-9: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   A.   No person under the age limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code
may purchase, consume or possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code.
   C.   No person under the age limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code
shall by any means represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or
employee of such retailer or distributor that he or she is within the age limit
set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code or more of age for the purpose of
inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or employee, to sell, serve
or dispense wine to such person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or distributor
or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any person is
within the age limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho Code, when in fact
such other person is under the age limit set forth in section 23-1023, Idaho
Code, for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, to sell, serve
or dispense wine to such other person. (Ord. 809, 6-29-1971; amd. 1987 Code)
3-4-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If any licensee or employee of a wine by the drink establishment violates any
of the provisions of this chapter or is convicted of the violation of any of
the provisions of state law, the council is hereby authorized and empowered to
revoke the license issued to said licensee; provided, however, that in the
event it is brought to the attention of the council that a violation has taken
place, before revoking such license the council shall cause notice to be served
upon the licensee setting forth in general terms the violation or violations
claimed to have been committed, and such notice shall provide a time for
hearing thereon by the council which date of hearing shall be not less than
five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the date of the service of
notice that the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of the laws of the
state of Idaho have been violated, shall revoke such license theretofore issued
and no refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall be made to the
licensee. A revocation by the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state of Idaho of any license theretofore issued said licensee shall
automatically revoke the license issued by the city and no refund of any fee
theretofore paid shall be made. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
ARTICLE A. SALE BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-4A-1: License Required
3-4A-2: Application For License
3-4A-3: Qualifications
3-4A-4: License Fee
3-4A-5: Issuance Of License
3-4A-6: License Restrictions
3-4A-7: Penalty
3-4A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
In accordance with the provisions of chapter 144 of the Idaho session laws of
the first regular session of the forty second legislature and under the
provisions of section 23-1315 of the Idaho Code, as amended, it shall be lawful
for any person to sell wine at retail by the drink within the corporate limits
of the city after having first procured a license therefor. (Ord. 832, 1-10-
1974)
3-4A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant and upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such application
shall be filed by the clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the next
scheduled meeting of the council for their approval, rejection or further
consideration. (Ord. 832, 1-10-1974)
3-4A-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state as prescribed by the laws of the state 1  and maintain such
qualifications throughout the period for which such license is issued. The
possession of licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement
and the county in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie
evidence of the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. A
licensee for liquor by the drink shall not be required to obtain an additional
license under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 832, 1-10-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-1306.
3-4A-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee imposed and collected shall be the sum set forth in subsection
3-4-5A1 of this chapter. Should a license be issued for less than a full
calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated in accordance with the actual
months of issuance. (Ord. 832, 1-10-1974; amd. 1987 Code)
3-4A-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by this article as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall, upon approval of the
council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail by the drink
within the municipality for such calendar year or remainder thereof. (Ord. 832,
1-10-1974)
3-4A-6: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
The assignment or transfer of wine by the drink license issued hereunder shall
be the same as provided for the assignment or transfer of beer license 1 .
(Ord. 832, 1-10-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
3-4A-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished for such violation by a fine up to three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or jail sentence up to ninety (90) days or by both such fine
and sentence 1 . (Ord. 832, 1-10-1974)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  3-4-10 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 5
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definition
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Insurance Required
3-5-5: Term Of License; Card
3-5-6: License Fees
3-5-1: DEFINITION:
The term "taxicab" as used in this chapter shall include and apply to all motor
propelled vehicles transporting passengers for hire. (Ord. 1011, 7-12-1993)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, run or manage a taxicab without
first applying for and procuring a license so to do from the clerk, which
license can only be issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1011, 7-12-1993)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a taxicab license must be made in writing to the clerk,
shall be made in such manner and form as may be prescribed by the clerk and
shall contain, among other things:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant;
   B.   If a corporation, the principal place of business of such corporation,
the amount of its capital stock and the names and addresses of its president
and secretary;
   C.   Make, model, title number, owner, seating capacity, color, identifying
marks and current license number of the vehicle proposed to be used;
   D.   Three (3) character and business references; and
   E.   Showing that applicant has complied with all pertinent state laws.
(Ord. 1011, 7-12-1993)
3-5-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No license shall be issued or renewed by the clerk, and it shall be unlawful to
operate a taxicab in the city until the applicant shall have deposited with the
clerk, a policy of insurance regularly issued for the commercial operation of a
taxi by an insurance company authorized to do business in Idaho, providing
indemnity to the public and to the insured against loss in the amounts required
by state law. All such policies shall be valid and effective for no less a
period than that for which the license is issued. (Ord. 1011, 7-12-1993)
3-5-5: TERM OF LICENSE; CARD:
All licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of the year in which issued, and
the same shall be evidenced by cards bearing the signature and address of the
clerk and showing, among other things, name and address of licensee, current
license and title certificate numbers of vehicle, model and make of vehicle and
date of issue. All licensees shall constantly carry such license cards on their
person and shall exhibit the same to any city official upon demand. License
cards shall not be transferable. (1971 Code)
3-5-6: LICENSE FEES:
The annual fee for each year or fraction thereof shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each vehicle, which must be paid in cash in advance to the clerk
before the license may be issued or renewed. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Permits
3-6-3: Inspection Of Mobile Home Parks
3-6-4: Notices, Hearings And Orders
3-6-5: Exemptions
3-6-6: Environmental, Open Space And Access Requirements
3-6-7: Water Supply
3-6-8: Sewage Disposal
3-6-9: Electrical Distribution System
3-6-10: Service Buildings And Other Community Service Facilities
3-6-11: Refuse Handling
3-6-12: Insect And Rodent Control
3-6-13: Fuel Supply And Storage
3-6-14: Fire Protection
3-6-15: Miscellaneous Requirements
3-6-16: Conform To Zoning Regulations
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH OR MOBILE HOME: A trailer coach or mobile home which
does not have a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
DRIVEWAY: A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a mobile home
lot or use for common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The fire chief and/or building inspector or the city council.
INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH OR MOBILE HOME: A trailer coach or mobile home that
has a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured, transportable, single-family dwelling unit
suitable for year round occupancy and containing water supply, waste disposal
and electrical conveniences and so designed that it is or may be mounted on
wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn
by its own or other motive power.
MOBILE HOME LOT OR TRAILER COACH SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer court
or mobile home park designated for the accommodation of one single trailer
coach or mobile home and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
MOBILE HOME RESTAND PAD: That part of an individual lot which has been served
for the placement of one mobile home unit.
PARK MANAGEMENT: The person or persons who own or have charge, care or control
of the mobile home park or trailer court.
PARK STREET: A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
PERMIT OR LICENSE: A written permit issued by the health officer permitting the
trailer court to operate under this chapter, and shall include extensions,
alterations and constructions within the mobile home park.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet facilities for men and women, with
slop water closet and laundry facilities and with separate bath or shower
accommodations and such other facilities as may be required under this chapter.
SEWER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the mobile home
park.
SEWER RISER PIPE: That portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically to
the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home lot.
TRAILER: See definition of Mobile Home.
TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot or ground upon which four (4) or
more trailer coaches, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located
and is owned by an individual, a firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation.
TRAILER PARK: See definition of Trailer Court Or Mobile Home Park.
WATER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system with the mobile home.
WATER RISER PIPE: That portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a
designated point at each mobile home lot. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-6-2: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, maintain, extend or
operate any mobile home park within the limits of the city unless he holds a
valid permit issued by the clerk, in the name of such person or the specific
trailer court for the specific construction, alteration, extension or operation
proposed.
   A.   Trailer courts may be allowed in residential zone A or residential zone
B as designated in the city by special permit of the planning and zoning
commission and the city council after public hearing and a showing to the
satisfaction of the commission that such action will be compatible to the
overall development of the area where the trailer court is proposed to be
constructed and will be in accordance with the general purposes of the zoning
provisions of the city and providing that before a permit is issued by the
commission there shall be on file in the office of the clerk the written
consent of the owners of seventy five percent (75%) of the area of all the
property within the boundary line of an area determined by the intersection of
lines drawn three hundred feet (300') at right angles out from and parallel to
all sides of the tract whereupon such trailer court is to be erected or
occupied, or property zoned for this specific purpose after a public hearing.
Where dedicated street rights of way are encountered, they shall be included in
establishing the three hundred foot (300') boundary line around the tract; but
further, they shall not be included in any area calculation.
   B.   All applications for permits shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Location and legal description of the mobile home park.
      3.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park
showing, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
         b.   The number, location and size of all mobile home lots;
         c.   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         d.   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
         e.   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and sewer
disposal facilities;
         f.   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park;
         g.   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems;
         h.   All plans and specifications to indicate distances, depths,
setbacks and separations;
         i.   Double frontage lots backing on streets shall be prohibited from
using exterior roadway as entrance or exit purposes;
         j.   All lot dimensions are to be shown on all lot lines;
         k.   Radii at curbs at street intersections at lot corners should be
rounded per city specifications;
         l.   Exterior boundaries of plat drawings must be tied to at least two
(2) county or city monuments;
         m.   All lots are to be numbered by progressive numbers in each block.
   C.   When, upon review of the application, the city council is satisfied
that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this chapter, a permit shall
be issued.
   D.   Every person holding a permit shall give notice in writing to the
council within twenty four (24) hours after having sold, transferred, given
away, leased or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home
park. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding
to the ownership or control of such mobile home park. Upon application in
writing for transfer of the permit, the permit shall be transferred if the
mobile home park is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
      1.   Applications for original permit shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application on and by deposit of a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
      2.   Applications for renewals of permits shall be made in writing by the
holders of the permit, shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) and shall contain any change in the information submitted
since the original permit was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   E.   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the health authority
finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any
provisions of this chapter, the health authority shall give notice in writing
in accordance with section
3-6-4 of this chapter to the person to whom the permit was issued that unless
such conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice by the health authority, the permit shall be suspended.
At the end of such period, the health authority shall reinspect such mobile
home park and, if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he
shall suspend the permit and give notice in writing of such suspension to the
person to whom the permit is issued. Upon receipt of notice of such suspension,
such person shall cease operation of such mobile home park except as provided
in section
3-6-4 of this chapter.
   F.   Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
council under the procedure provided by section
3-6-4 of this chapter. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
3-6-3: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   The health authority is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter.
   B.   The health authority shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter.
   C.   The health authority shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park. The management
shall maintain an up to date daily register of all occupants.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the park management to give the health
authority free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to give
the owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such mobile
home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this chapter. (1971
Code)
3-6-4: NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Whenever the council determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, they
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the permit
was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be put in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly served
upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered mail
to his last known address or when a copy thereof has been posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice, or when he
has been served with such notice by any method authorized or required by the
laws of this state;
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   B.   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the council; provided that such person
shall file in the office of the clerk a written petition requesting such
hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten
(10) days after the date the notice was served. The filing of the request for a
hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the suspension except in the
case of an order issued under subsection E of this section. Upon receipt of
such petition, the council shall set a time and place for such hearing and
shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing, the
petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such
notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not
later than ten (10) days after the day on which the petition was filed;
provided that upon application of the petitioner, the council may postpone the
date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such ten (10) day period when
in its judgment the petitioner has submitted good and sufficient reasons for
such postponement.
   C.   After such hearing, the council shall sustain, modify or withdraw the
notice, depending upon its findings as to compliance or noncompliance with the
provisions of this chapter and of regulations adopted pursuant thereto. If the
council should sustain or modify such notice, it shall be deemed to be an
order. Any notice served pursuant to subsection A4 of this section shall
automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing shall not
have been filed in the office of the clerk within ten (10) days after such
notice was served. After a hearing in the case of any notice suspending any
permit required by this chapter, or by any regulation adopted pursuant thereto,
when such notice shall have been sustained by the council, the permit shall be
deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit that shall have been suspended by
a notice shall be deemed to be automatically revoked if a petition for hearing
shall not have been filed in the office of the clerk within ten (10) days after
such notice was served.
   D.   The proceedings at such hearing, including the findings and decision of
the council, together with a copy of every notice and order related thereto,
shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of the clerk, but
the transcript of the proceedings need not be transcribed unless judicial
review of the decision is sought as provided by this section. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the council may seek relief therefrom in any court
of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of this state.
   E.   Whenever the health authority finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he may without notice
or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the
emergency including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective
immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately, but upon petition to the council shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of subsections C and D of this
section shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(1971 Code)
3-6-5: EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any house trailer on any street,
alley or highway or other public place or any tract of land owned by any person
occupied or unoccupied, except as provided in this chapter.
   A.   Where the council finds that compliance with the provisions of this
chapter would result in undue hardship, an exemption may be granted by the
council without impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter. Deviations
from design, construction and installation provisions shall be brought into
compliance with this chapter within a reasonable period of time based on
economic feasibility of improvement, nature, significance and extent of
deviation, depreciation of material, improvement and layout in use and other
similar factors, within a minimum period not exceeding six (6) months and a
maximum period not exceeding one year.
      1.   Any change of ownership or discontinuance of residential use of any
lot now used for residential purposes by a mobile home for a period of thirty
(30) days shall result in voidance of any permitted use of trailer houses
outside of a trailer park according to section
3-6-16 of this chapter.
      2.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking for not more than three
(3) hours and subject to any other limitations imposed by any other provision
of this code.
      3.   Unoccupied mobile homes for demonstration and sales purposes and
temporary construction field offices in specified areas and unoccupied campers.
      4.   The storage of any unoccupied and uninhabited mobile home shall be
permitted in the rear yard of any premises; provided that it does not extend
into any setback area, nor shall it be connected to a sewer, water, electricity
or gas and that such storage is not in conflict with any other section of this
chapter or any other regulation of Washington County or the city.
   B.   Such period shall begin after the health authority has given notice of
a certain and specific deviation from this chapter to the person to whom the
permit or certificate was issued.
   C.   Gradual improvements to a higher degree of conformity shall be
permissive provided that there shall be complete conformity at the end of a
period prescribed by the council. (1971 Code)
3-6-6: ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: General requirements shall be that the condition
of soil, groundwater level, drainage and topography shall not create hazards to
the property or the health or safety of the occupants. The site shall not be
exposed to objectionable smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences, and
no portion subject to unpredictable and/or sudden flooding, subsidence or
erosion shall be used for any purpose which would expose persons or property to
hazards.
   B.   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements: Soil and ground cover requirements
shall be that exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home park
shall be paved, or covered with stone screenings or other solid material, or
protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion
and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   C.   Site Drainage Requirements: Site drainage requirements shall be that
the ground surface in all parts of every mobile home park shall be graded and
equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner, together with
controlling grades and dimensions of all time lines, culverts, catch basins,
drain inlets, turf and masonry gutters and curbs, final drainage disposal
including any existing facilities to be used.
   D.   Park Areas For Nonresidential Use:
      1.   No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes,
except such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well being of
park residents and for the management and maintenance of the park.
      2.   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting the
sale of a mobile home located on a mobile home stand and connected to the
pertinent utilities.
   E.   Required Separation Between Mobile Homes:
      1.   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other
buildings and structures by at least fifteen feet (15'); provided that mobile
homes placed end to end may have a clearance of twelve feet (12') where
opposing rear walls are staggered.
      2.   An accessory structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak and porch which has a floor area exceeding twenty five (25)
square feet, and has an opaque top or roof shall, for purposes of all
separation requirements, be considered to be part of the mobile home.
   F.   Required Recreation Areas:
      1.   In all parks accommodating or designed to accommodate twenty five
(25) or more mobile homes there shall be one or more recreation areas which
shall be easily accessible to all park residents.
      2.   The size of such recreation area shall be based upon a minimum of
one hundred (100) square feet for each lot. No outdoor recreation area shall
contain less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
      3.   Recreation areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic
hazards, and should, where the topography permits, be centrally located.
   G.   Required Setbacks, Buffer Strips And Screening:
      1.   All mobile homes shall be located at least twenty five feet (25')
from any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway
and at least twenty five feet (25') from other park property boundary lines.
      2.   There shall be a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') between the
mobile home stand and abutting park street.
      3.   All mobile home parks shall be provided with screening such as
fences or natural growth along the property boundary line separating the park
and such adjacent nonresidential uses.
   H.   Park Street System And Car Parking:
      1.   General Requirements: All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home lot. Such access shall be provided by streets, driveways or
other means in conformance with city standards.
      2.   Park Entrance: Entrances to mobile home parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for a
distance of one hundred feet (100') from its point of beginning, unless
approved by the council.
      3.   Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   All streets, except minor streets: Thirty six feet (36') (curb
face to curb face).
         b.   Minor streets: Thirty two feet (32') (curb face to curb face).
         c.   Dead end streets shall be limited in length to four hundred feet
(400') and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an
outside roadway diameter of at least eighty feet (80') curb face to curb face
and a street property line diameter of at least ninety feet (90').
         d.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less
than eighty degrees (80°).
      4.   Trailer Parking:
         a.   It shall be illegal to park a trailer coach less than fifteen
feet (15') from any street or highway right of way, or so that any part of such
trailer will obstruct any roadway to walkway.
         b.   It shall be illegal to allow any trailer coach to remain in a
trailer court unless a trailer coach space is available.
         c.   Each trailer coach space shall contain a minimum of: single unit,
two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet; double unit, three thousand six
hundred (3,600) square feet, shall be at least thirty feet (30') in width and
shall be at least eighty feet (80') in length, or large enough to accommodate
the size trailer coach so placed that no part of the trailer coach will extend
within the limits set forth in this chapter. Each trailer coach shall be so
placed as to provide the necessary clearance as provided in this chapter.
         d.   Each trailer coach space in any trailer court shall be provided
with an asphalt or concrete paved area of at least one hundred eighty (180)
square feet at the entranceway into the trailer coach itself. (1971 Code)
         e.   No trailer shall be placed on any lot in such a manner as to
encroach beyond the setback provisions of this chapter. (1971 Code; amd. 1987
Code)
      5.   Car Parking: Off street parking areas or on street parking lanes
shall be provided for the use of park occupants and guests.
         a.   Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of two (2) car
spaces for each mobile home lot.
         b.   Off street parking shall be located within a distance of two
hundred feet (200') from the mobile home to be served, unless other vehicular
access is provided.
      6.   Required Illumination Of Park Street Systems: All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights as will provide adequate levels of illumination for the
safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night to:
         a.   All parts of the park street systems; and
         b.   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street
intersections and steps or stepped ramps.
      7.   Street Construction And Design Standards: These shall conform to
minimum standards of the county and city codes, in addition to:
         a.   Pavements: All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard and
dense surface which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and
weather conditions. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained free of cracks, holes and other hazards to county and city code
specifications.
         b.   Grades: Grades shall conform to the minimum standards for the
city for all streets and shall be sufficient to ensure adequate surface
drainage, but shall be not more than minimum street grade of one-fourth percent
(0.25%) with a maximum grade being seven percent (7.0%) for secondary and major
streets and ten percent (10.0%) for local or minor streets. Where the
observance of these standards is impossible, the council shall review the
situation before an exception may be granted.
         c.   Intersections: Within one hundred feet (100') of an intersection,
streets shall be at approximately right angles, a distance of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') shall be maintained between centerlines of offset
intersecting streets, intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point
shall be avoided.
      8.   Fences; Location, Height And Density: In any yard adjacent to a
street and within ten feet (10') from the curb line to such street, fences,
walls and hedges may be up to forty eight inches (48") in height, when that
portion of the fence above twenty four inches (24") is at least seventy five
percent (75%) open when measured at ninety degrees (90°) to the fence. Fences
located in a yard area other than above described may be up to seven feet (7')
in height.
      9.   Measurements Of Height Of Fences: All fences along a public right of
way will be measured from and along the sidewalk, or if no sidewalk exists,
from and along the curb. All other fences will be measured from and along the
finished grade of the property along the fence.
      10.   Fences; Use Of Hazardous Materials: Fences shall not be constructed
of or contain any material which will do bodily harm, such as barbed wire,
electric wire, broken glass, spikes and any other hazardous or dangerous
material.
   I.   Walks:
      1.   General Requirements: All parks shall be provided with safe,
convenient, all season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park
streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradients shall be avoided.
      2.   Common Walk System: A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such
common walks shall have a minimum width of four feet (4') and shall be
constructed of concrete.
      3.   Individual Walks: All mobile home stands shall be connected to
common walks, to paved streets or to paved driveways or parking spaces
connected to a paved street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width
of three feet (3').
   J.   Mobile Home Stands: The area of the mobile home stand shall be improved
to provide adequate support for the placement and tie down of the mobile home,
thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation and
overturning.
      1.   The mobile home stand shall not heave, shift or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration or other forces acting on the structure.
      2.   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie downs
such as cast in place concrete "dead men" eyelet imbedded in concrete
foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors, or other devices
securing the stability of the mobile home.
      3.   Anchors and tie downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the
mobile home stand and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength
of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) pounds. (1971 Code)
3-6-7: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   General Requirements: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply
of water shall be provided in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of
water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available at the site
or at the boundary of the site, connection shall be made thereto and its supply
used exclusively.
   B.   Source Of Supply:
      1.   The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of one
hundred twenty five (125) gallons per day per mobile home.
      2.   Every well or suction line of the water supply system shall be
located and constructed in such a manner that neither underground nor surface
contamination will reach the water supply from any source.
      3.   No well casings, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be placed
in any pit, room or space extending below ground level nor in any room or space
aboveground, which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such rooms,
whether above or below ground have free drainage by gravity to the surface of
the ground.
      4.   The treatment of a private water supply shall be in accordance with
applicable laws and regulations.
   C.   Water Distribution System:
      1.   The water supply system of the mobile home park shall be connected
by pipes to all mobile homes, buildings and other facilities requiring water.
      2.   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with state and local regulations, approved by the
council and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the city health
authority.
      3.   The water piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or back siphonage.
      4.   The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a
pressure of not less than twenty (20) pounds per square inch, under normal
operating conditions at service buildings and other locations requiring potable
water supply and be of the size required by the city.
      5.   Fire hydrants shall be required to maintain safe standards of fire
protection and be not more than five hundred feet (500') from any trailer
stand.
   D.   Individual Water Riser Pipes And Connections:
      1.   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined
area of the mobile home stand at a point where the water connection will
approximate a vertical position.
      2.   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches (4") above
ground elevation. The pipe shall be at least three-fourths (3/4) of an inch.
The water outlet shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot.
      3.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
actions of ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted
from the location of the riser pipe.
      4.   A shutoff valve below the frost line shall be provided near the
water riser pipe on each mobile home lot.
      5.   Underground stop and waste valve shall not be installed on any water
service. (1971 Code)
3-6-8: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   General Requirements: All plumbing in the trailer court shall comply
with state and local plumbing laws and regulations and must connect to the
public sewer of the city and shall conform to all rules and regulations of the
city.
   B.   Sewer Lines: All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient
depth to be free of breakage from traffic or other movements and shall be
separated from the park water supply system at a safe distance. Sewers shall be
at a grade which will ensure a velocity of two feet (2') per second when
flowing full. All sewer lines shall be constructed of materials approved by the
city, shall be adequately vented and shall have watertight joints. (1971 Code)
   C.   Systems Outside City Limits: Systems located outside of the city
limits, but in the impact area, shall be approved by the Idaho state health
department. (1987 Code)
   D.   Individual Sewer Connections:
      1.   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with at least a four inch
(4") diameter sewer riser pipe; the sewer riser pipe shall be so located on
each stand that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
      2.   The "sewer connection" (see definition in section
3-6-1 of this chapter) shall have a nominal inside diameter of at least one-
fourth inch (1/4") per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipeline
only without any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight.
      3.   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semirigid,
corrosive resistant, absorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
      4.   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted away
from the riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least four inches
(4") above ground elevation.
   E.   Sewage Treatment And/Or Discharge: Effluents from sewage or sewage
treatment shall not be discharged into any waters of the state except with
prior approval of the health authority, including the county and state health
departments.
   F.   Plumbing General Requirements: All plumbing within each trailer or
mobile home shall conform to the minimum standards of the state and local
regulations and laws. (1971 Code)
3-6-9: ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   General Requirements: Every park shall contain an electrical wiring
system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems.
   B.   Power Distribution Lines:
      1.   Main power lines shall be installed underground and must comply with
all local and state requirements.
      2.   All direct burial conductors or cable shall comply with all state
and local regulations, with a minimum buried distance of eighteen inches (18")
below the ground surface and specially designed for the purpose. Such
conductors shall be located not less than one foot (1') radial distance from
water, sewer, gas or communication lines.
   C.   Individual Electrical Connections: These shall conform to the
requirements of the electrical code of the city 1 .
   D.   Required Grounding: All exposed noncurrent carrying metal parts of
mobile homes and other equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved
grounding conductor with branch circuit conductors or other approved method of
grounding metallic wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an
equipment ground for mobile homes or other equipment. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-2-1H of this code.
3-6-10: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMUNITY SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   General: The requirements of this section shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings and other community service facilities such as:
      1.   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
      2.   Sanitary facilities;
      3.   Laundry facilities;
      4.   Indoor recreation areas; and
      5.   Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the
exclusive use of park occupants. (1971 Code)
   B.   Service Buildings: Every trailer court that accepts or accommodates
dependent trailer coaches shall provide adequate flush type toilet fixtures and
laundry facilities. In no instance shall there be less than one laundry unit;
two (2) water closets, one lavatory and one shower or bathtub for women and one
shower or bathtub for men. The foregoing listed facilities shall be the minimum
facilities to accommodate up to twenty (20) dependent trailer coaches. One
additional water closet for each sex shall be provided for every ten (10)
additional dependent trailer coaches (urinals may be substituted for 1/3 of the
additional water closets). One additional lavatory for each sex shall be
provided for every ten (10) additional dependent coaches and one additional
shower or bathtub for each sex for every twenty (20) additional dependent
coaches. Dependent trailer coaches shall be parked not more than two hundred
feet (200') from the service buildings. There shall be one tub for every twenty
(20) dependent trailer coach spaces. One shall be located at least fifteen feet
(15') or more from any trailer coach space. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
   C.   Structural Requirements For Buildings:
      1.   Shall conform to all rules and regulations of the state codes and
codes of the city. All portions of the structure shall be properly protected
from destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be of such materials and be
so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance or penetration of moisture
and weather.
      2.   All rooms containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall have:
         a.   Sound resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and
female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around showers, bathtubs,
lavatories and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed of dense,
nonabsorbent, waterproof material or covered with moisture resistant material.
         b.   At least one window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors.
The minimum aggregate gross area of windows for each required room shall not be
less than ten percent (10%) of floor space served by them. Such openings shall
be adequately screened.
         c.   At least one window which can be easily opened, or a mechanical
device which will adequately ventilate the room, such opening or openings shall
be adequately screened to prevent access of insects.
      3.   Toilets shall be located in separate compartments equipped with
self-closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The rooms
shall be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the exterior
doors are open.
      4.   Illumination levels shall be maintained as follows:
         a.   General seeing tasks, five (5) foot-candles;
         b.   Laundry room work area, forty (40) foot-candles; and
         c.   Toilet room, in front of mirrors, forty (40) foot-candles.
      5.   Hot and cold water shall be furnished in every lavatory, sink,
bathtub, shower and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every
water closet and urinal.
      6.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather and to supply a minimum
of three (3) gallons of hot water per hour per coach space during time of peak
demand.
   D.   Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces, Stoves And Incinerators: Cooking shelters,
barbecue pits, fireplaces and incinerators shall be so located, constructed,
maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the
property on which used and on neighborhood property. No open fire shall be
permitted except in facilities provided. No open fire shall be left unattended.
No fuel shall be used and no material burned which emits dense smoke or
objectionable odors. (1971 Code)
3-6-11: REFUSE HANDLING 1 :
   A.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   B.   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers which shall be located not more than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from any mobile home lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and
capacity to properly store all refuse and shall conform to the state and local
minimum standards, under the health authority.
   C.   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers.
Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them or as set forth by state and local trash collection
regulations.
   D.   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected in accordance with
this code. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers at least once per week in winter and twice per week in
summer according to city specifications.
   E.   When incinerators are used, such incinerator shall be constructed only
with approval of the state and local health authority approval, and must
conform to the minimum specifications of state and local regulations. Such
approval shall be based on a review of the plans and specifications for such
incinerators and approval of the site where they will be located. Such approval
shall specify the type of material which may be placed in the incinerators.
   F.   Incinerators shall be fired only when attended by some person
specifically authorized by the owner or operator of the trailer court, and then
only during the daytime hours. Fire is to be extinguished at dusk.
   G.   Trash incinerators shall not be used for the disposal of garbage. (1971
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-2-13B of this code for collection regulations.
3-6-12: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   A.   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
health authority.
   B.   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests.
   C.   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at least one foot (1')
above the ground.
   D.   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   E.   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of noxious insects. Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the
growth of noxious and unsightly weeds, or those which could be injurious to
health. Open areas as well as areas about or under the trailer home shall be
maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description. (1971 Code)
3-6-13: FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE:
   A.   Natural Gas System:
      1.   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      2.   Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an approved
manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall be
equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when the
outlet is not in use.
   B.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas Systems:
      1.   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      2.   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
      3.   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off
gas. Such means shall be located outside the mobile home and shall be
maintained in effective operating condition.
      4.   All LPG piping outside of the mobile homes shall be well supported
and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied petroleum gas in
liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in
mobile homes.
      5.   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot
shall be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental
overturning. Such containers shall not be less than five (5) nor more than two
hundred (200) U.S. gallons' gross capacity.
      6.   No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside
or beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home or any other structure,
unless such installations are approved by the council and placed fifteen feet
(15') or more from any adjacent lot line.
   C.   Fuel Oil Supply Systems:
      1.   All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      2.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
      3.   All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened
in place and shall be located inside or beneath any mobile home or less than
five feet (5') from any mobile home exit.
      4.   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected
against physical damage. (1971 Code)
3-6-14: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
   B.   Portable fire extinguishers rated for classes B and C fires shall be
kept in service buildings and at other locations conveniently and readily
accessible for use by all occupants and shall be maintained in good operating
condition. Their capacity shall not be less than two and one-half (21/2)
pounds.
   C.   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
   D.   Fire hydrants shall be located within five hundred feet (500') of any
mobile home, service building or other structure in the park, measured within
the curb line. The court area shall be subject to the city fire prevention
codes and authority 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See provisions of subsection 4-2-1C of this code for adoption of the fire
  code and standards.
3-6-15: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Responsibilities Of The Park Management:
      1.   The person to whom a permit for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
under this chapter.
      3.   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile
home on its mobile home stand which includes securing its stability and
installing all utility connections.
      4.   The park management shall maintain a register containing the names
of all occupants identified by lot number or street address; such register
shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the park.
      5.   The park management shall notify the clerk immediately of any
suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park.
      6.   The owner or operator of a trailer court may construct an individual
auxiliary storage building on each trailer coach space in the trailer court;
provided, the building has a maximum floor space of twelve (12) square feet;
has a maximum height of seven feet (7') above the ground; has a minimum setback
of five feet (5') from adjacent trailer coach spaces and has a minimum setback
of fifteen feet (15') from any public street or highway right of way.
   B.   Responsibilities Of Park Occupants:
      1.   The park occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements of
this chapter and shall maintain his mobile home lot, its facilities and
equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of his
mobile home on its mobile home stand and proper installation of all utility
connections in accordance with the instructions of the park management and
ordinances and regulations of the city.
      3.   Pets, if permitted in the park, shall be prohibited to run at large
or commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home lot. Ordinances of
the city shall be complied with concerning all animals 1 .
      4.   Skirting, porches, awnings and other additions shall be installed
only if permitted and approved by the park management. When installed, they
shall be maintained in good repair. The space immediately underneath a mobile
home shall be used for storage only if permitted by the park management. If
permitted, the following conditions shall be satisfied:
         a.   The storage area shall be provided with a base of impervious
material.
         b.   Stored items shall be located so as not to interfere with the
underneath inspection of the mobile home.
         c.   The storage area shall be enclosed by skirting.
      5.   The park occupant shall store and dispose of all his rubbish and
garbage in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. The garbage container shall be
rodentproof, insectproof and watertight, in conformance with title 7, chapter 2
of this code.
      6.   First aid fire extinguishers for class B and C fires shall be kept
at the premises and maintained in working condition at all times.
      7.   The wheels of the coach shall not be removed, except temporarily
when necessary for repairs. Jacks or stabilizes may be placed under the frame
of the coach to prevent movement on the springs while the coach is parked and
occupied.
      8.   Prefabricated structures intended for habitation of mobile home or
trailers from which the wheels have been removed and placed on any lot or
parcel of land shall be subject to all the building, electrical, plumbing and
sewer code requirements. Any deficiencies shall prohibit the placement on any
lot, parcel or mobile home park within the limits of the city. (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See provisions set out in title 6, chapters 2 and 3 of this code.
3-6-16: CONFORM TO ZONING REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter and the placement of all mobile homes or trailer
coaches shall, in all respects, conform to the provisions and regulations of
the zoning title of this code 1 . (1971 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
PEDDLERS; HAWKERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: License Required
3-7-2: Fees
3-7-3: Exemptions
3-7-4: Application For License; Bond
3-7-5: Violations
3-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
There is hereby levied a license on each and every hawker, peddler and seller
of goods at retail, by sample or by taking orders or otherwise, including
itinerant magazine and/or book agents and salesmen who are engaged in the
occupation and business of selling and soliciting orders for the sale at retail
of goods, wares, merchandise, magazines, periodicals and books within the city,
said license being imposed under the police powers of the city for regulatory
purposes, in the interest of the peace and general welfare of the city and its
inhabitants. There is excepted from the provisions of this section persons
peddling the products of their own farms, orchards and gardens located in the
state of Idaho and/or Malheur County, Oregon, and vegetables raised on their
own farms. (Ord. 577, 4-1-1948; amd. 1987 Code)
3-7-2: FEES:
   A.   Each hawker, peddler and seller of goods, wares and merchandise,
including books, periodicals and magazines at retail, by sample or by taking
orders or otherwise at retail, before selling or attempting to sell or
soliciting any such orders of any kind, shall obtain a license from the clerk
and pay the license fee as herein provided. (Ord. 577, 4-1-1948)
   B.   All of the aforementioned sellers, agents and peddlers shall pay a
license fee in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for managers per day and
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for salespersons per day therefor and comply with
the further requisites of this chapter. (Ord. 577, 4-1-1948; amd. 1987 Code)
3-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
In the event that the hawkers, peddlers or sellers of goods as is outlined
herein, conduct their operations in interstate commerce so as to make it
impossible to require them to pay the license fee hereinbefore set forth, said
parties shall nevertheless be subject to the further provisions of this chapter
relative to licensing and qualifying themselves for the taking of such orders
for goods in interstate commerce. (Ord. 577, 4-1-1948)
3-7-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; BOND:
In order to obtain a license as is provided for in this chapter, each applicant
shall give his name and address of his employer, a description of what he is
selling or peddling and the method whereby he sells his products, whether the
same are delivered at the time the order is taken, and if the order is taken
whether the article sold is shipped into the city in interstate commerce or
not.
In the event that the information so obtained at the time the license is
applied for discloses that the applicant is merely taking orders for the sale
of articles within the purview of this chapter which are to be delivered in
interstate commerce; and, thereby, he is not subject to the payment of such
license fees, the clerk shall, before issuing a license, communicate with the
employer of said applicant as disclosed by such application and ascertain
whether or not the applicant is authorized to represent said employer; and said
applicant shall further give bond with an approved surety company guaranteeing
to all citizens of the city that all money paid as a down payment for any goods
ordered from such applicant will be accounted for and be applied according to
the representations of the salesman, and further guaranteeing to any citizen of
the city who may do business with said agent that the property purchased will
be delivered according to the representations of the salesman. Said bond shall
be in the principal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). No license fee shall
be charged such seller of goods in interstate commerce. However, no license
shall be granted to any such person by the clerk until investigation has been
made as hereinbefore provided. (Ord. 577, 4-1-1948)
3-7-5: VIOLATIONS:
After the passage and approval of this chapter, it shall be illegal for any
person to sell, solicit and sell or attempt to sell or take orders for the sale
of any goods, wares, merchandise, periodicals, books or magazines and personal
property of any kind or sell from house to house at retail not having an
established place of business within the city, without complying with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 577, 4-1-1948)
CHAPTER 8
SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition
3-8-2: Records To Be Kept
3-8-3: Dealer Notified Not To Sell Property
3-8-4: Prohibited Purchases
3-8-1: DEFINITION:
Every firm, association, partnership or corporation within the corporate limits
of the city who shall collect, buy, sell, loan money upon or take as a pledge
for payment of property sold at retail, exchange or deal in anything which
shall be designed as secondhand goods of whatsoever kind or description, such
as: furniture, household goods, stoves, stove parts, clothing and haberdashery,
rags, harness, ropes, whips, garden hose, garden tools, firearms, scrap iron,
copper wire, lead, lead pipe, zinc, casting and metal fittings, electrical
appliances, electrical appliance parts, automotive parts, tractor parts,
aeronautic parts, musical instruments, musical instrument parts, radios and
radio parts, store fixtures, store machines, sewing machine parts, blacksmith
supplies and parts, mechanists' supplies, foundry and sheet metal supplies,
antiques, bric-a-brac, jewelry and jewelers' supplies, old gold and other
precious metals, shoes, leather goods, mining machinery and mining supplies,
mirror and glass supplies, sporting goods, furs, pelts and hides, washing
machines and washing machine parts are hereby declared to be secondhand
merchants and dealers in secondhand goods, regardless of the fact that such
secondhand business be operated in conjunction with one or more other lines of
business. (Ord. 587, 11-4-1948; amd. 1987 Code)
3-8-2: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Every person engaged in the secondhand merchant business shall keep a book in
which shall be plainly written in ink at the time of such purchase, a correct
account or description of the goods, articles or things purchased, the amount
of money paid therefor, the date of receipt of same, the name, description and
residence of the person selling the same; which book as the article purchased,
shall at all reasonable times, be open to the inspection of the chief of
police, or any member of the police department of the city. (Ord. 587, 11-4-
1948; amd. 1987 Code)
3-8-3: DEALER NOTIFIED NOT TO SELL PROPERTY:
Whenever the chief of police or any member of the police department designated
by the chief of police shall notify any secondhand merchant or dealer not to
sell any property purchased by him, such property shall not be sold or
permitted to be removed until such time as may be determined by the chief of
police or member of the police department designated by the chief of police,
not exceeding, however, fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 587, 11-4-1948; amd. 1987
Code)
3-8-4: PROHIBITED PURCHASES:
It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer or merchant to receive or
purchase any property, article or thing from any person who shall appear to be,
or who shall be known to be intoxicated, or from a minor under the age of
eighteen (18) years unless said minor shall be the head of the family. (Ord.
587, 11-4-1948; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Defined
3-9-2: License Required; Application And Procedure
3-9-3: Records
3-9-4: Minors And Intoxicated Persons
3-9-5: Forfeitures
3-9-6: Notice From Police Department
3-9-7: Hours Of Operation
3-9-8: Stolen Property; Return To True Owner
3-9-9: Violations And Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINED:
"Pawnbroker" shall mean every person, firm, association or corporation who
makes it a business to loan money on deposit or purchase personal property or
other valuable thing on condition of selling the same back again at a
stipulated price, or who loans money secured by the chattel mortgage, security
or personal property, having possession of the property, or any portion or part
thereof mortgaged, or who advertises by the use of "three ball", or
pawnbroker's sign, or by advertising "unredeemed pledges", or by using the term
"uncle", or by any other expression intending to designate pawnbroker's
business, shall, for all intents and purposes under this chapter be declared to
be a pawnbroker within the meaning of this chapter. (1987 Code)
3-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
pawnbroker unless a valid license therefor has been issued as provided for in
this chapter and which is in full force and effect.
   B.   An application for such license shall be made to the city clerk in such
form and manner as the city clerk may prescribe.
   C.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city clerk shall
cause an investigation to be made of the applicant. Conviction of a felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within five (5) years shall be grounds
for denial of a license.
   D.   Upon completion of such investigation, the city clerk shall issue,
subject to council approval, a license which shall expire at the end of the
calendar year, unless sooner suspended, revoked or surrendered.
   E.   The city clerk shall collect, before the issuance of any license or
renewal thereof, an annual license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   F.   No license shall be issued to any person who is not eighteen (18) years
of age or older.
   G.   The license issued under this chapter shall state the name of the
person to whom issued, the place of business and street number where such
business is located and the amount of capital employed. Such license shall
entitle the person receiving it only to do business at the place designated in
such license.
   H.   If a pawnbroker does not conduct said business for a period of ninety
(90) days, the license shall be null and void. Pawnbrokers' licenses shall not
be transferable to any other person, except by a majority vote of the city
council, and the filing of an application and a new bond by the person to whom
such license is, or may be, transferred or assigned. It shall be unlawful for
any person to do business, or to attempt to do business, under a license
transferred to him without the approval of the city council.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business in the city unless he shall keep posted in a conspicuous place of
business the license certificate therefor, and a copy of this chapter relating
to pawnbrokers.
   J.   Each pawnbroker shall furnish to the pledgor a printed receipt clearly
showing the amount owed with a specific, detailed description of the pledged
property pawned or received, date of receipt thereof, time for redemption, and
the name of the pledgee. The pawnbroker shall affix to each article or thing a
tag upon which shall be inscribed a number, of legible characters which shall
correspond to the number on the pawn ticket and be entered in the book required
to be kept by the provisions of this chapter. The pawnbroker shall furnish all
information required to be given to borrowers by state and federal law. The
following information shall appear in bold print on the front of each pawn
ticket required to be given to the pledgor:
    WARNING
If you have borrowed money from the pawnbroker, and if you fail to make any
payment when it is due, the pawnbroker, 10 days after default in making any
payment, may sell any property you have deposited, and you will lose your
rights to the property.
   K.   The holder of a pawnbroker's license shall be responsible for any and
all acts of his agents or employees, and for any violation by them of the
provisions of this chapter.
   L.   Every pawnbroker licensed under the provisions hereof shall provide a
safe place for the keeping of all goods or things received in the pawn, pledge
or for resale, and shall have sufficient insurance on the place of business to
insure contents, or post ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) bond.
   M.   The city council, upon notice and opportunity for hearing, may revoke
any pawnbroker's license for violation(s) of the provisions of this chapter.
   N.   No pawnbroker's license shall be issued for any location in which such
business is not permitted by the ordinances of the city. (1987 Code)
3-9-3: RECORDS:
Every pawnbroker shall keep a record of every article pledged with him or sold
to him, and this record shall be open to the inspection of the chief of police
or at the direction of the chief of police at any time during the hours of
business. Such record shall be upon the form as may be required by the chief of
police and shall provide the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the pawnbroker;
   B.   Name, address, age, sex, height, weight and complexion of the pledgor
or seller, except for persons repawning items that were previously pawned by
that person;
   C.   The date and time of the transaction, the article pledged or sold,
together with its description, serial number or other identification, and the
amount and terms of the loan;
   D.   The pledgor or seller's motor vehicle operator's license number and the
state of issue, a car license number or other legal identification;
   E.   Signatures by both pawnbroker and pledgor or seller;
   F.   Every record shall be executed by the pawnbroker and the pledgor or
seller at the time the transaction occurs;
   G.   Every pawnbroker shall be required to ascertain title by execution of a
form as approved by the city in and to any article pledged or sold to him. This
section shall apply to all secondhand purchases, but shall not apply to
articles of new merchandise purchased by the pawnbroker in the ordinary
channels of trade;
   H.   All pawnbroker reports shall be made in duplicate, one to be retained
by the pawnbroker and one copy to be available to the police department on a
regular basis, or upon request of the city chief of police. (1987 Code)
3-9-4: MINORS AND INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No pawnbroker shall:
   A.   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with any person less than
eighteen (18) years of age, except with the written consent of the parent or
guardian of the minor as to each particular transaction and in that event, the
parent or guardian must execute the record required by section
3-9-3 of this chapter and furnish proof of identification as any pledgor or
seller of any article with such being recorded upon the aforesaid record.
Provided, however, this subsection shall not prevent sales to any person
regardless of age.
   B.   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with a person who is so
obviously under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs so as to impair
his business judgment that a normal and reasonably prudent person would not
conduct such business with a person in such state or condition. (1987 Code)
3-9-5: FORFEITURES:
It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker as herein defined to allow any person
accepting a loan a period of forty (40) days in which to pay before the same
becomes forfeitable. (1987 Code)
3-9-6: NOTICE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Whenever the chief of police or any member of the police department shall
notify any pawnbroker in writing not to sell any property so received,
deposited or purchased by him, or permit the same to be redeemed, such property
shall not be sold or be permitted to be redeemed for a period of sixty (60)
days from the date of such notice but such notice may be renewed, by written
request, for an additional sixty (60) day period or periods. Further, a notice
may be terminated at any time in writing by the chief of police. (1987 Code)
3-9-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Legal hours for pawnbrokers, as herein defined, to be open for business shall
be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each day. (1987
Code)
3-9-8: STOLEN PROPERTY; RETURN TO TRUE OWNER:
   A.   Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker which is subsequently
determined by the Weiser police department to have been stolen shall be
transferred to the custody of the Weiser police department upon a request by
the chief of police. The property may be transferred to a designated holding
area within the control of the pawnbroker pending finalization of court
hearings. After finalization of court proceedings, the property can be returned
to the true owner upon mutual agreement of all parties involved, or by court
order. The pawnbroker shall not be required to return stolen property to the
true owner until:
      1.   He receives written notice from the law enforcement agency
authorizing the release of the property to the true owner and specifying the
name, address and social security number of the true owner;
      2.   The true owner, in person, requests the return of the property,
executes a receipt therefor, and presents proper identification showing his
name, address, social security number and signature.
   B.   Upon the return of the stolen property to the true owner either by the
pawnbroker or a law enforcement agency, the pawnbroker shall complete such
documentation as may be necessary or required to effect the transfer of the
property including such documents pertaining to the registration of firearms as
may be required by local, state or federal authorities. (1987 Code)
3-9-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required by section
3-9-3 of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to pledge or sell any goods,
chattels or effects, or any personal property leased or let to him by any
instrument in writing under a contract of purchase not yet fulfilled.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC DANCES
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definition
3-10-2: Permit Required
3-10-3: Application For Permit
3-10-4: Permit Fee
3-10-5: Exemptions
3-10-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "public dance" shall mean a dance which is
generally open to the public. (1971 Code)
3-10-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person, society, organization, or corporation shall conduct or cause to be
conducted at any public dance as herein defined, and except for those persons
exempt herefrom, shall first obtain a permit to conduct said dance. Attendance
of security or law enforcement officers designated by the chief of police is
required for all nonexempt public dances. (Ord. 1098, 4-10-2000)
3-10-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for the permit required herein shall provide the name of the
sponsoring person or organization, the name of the responsible persons who will
personally supervise the activities and such other information as may be
required by the city, and such application shall be made upon a form as
provided by the chief of police. (Ord. 1098, 4-10-2000)
3-10-4: PERMIT FEE:
Upon approval of the application for a permit by the chief of police in
writing, and after the payment of a permit fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) and,
a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each officer hour, the clerk shall issue a
permit which shall be valid only for the date specified. (Ord. 1098, 4-10-2000)
3-10-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to dances sponsored or conducted
by religious, fraternal or charitable organizations, where the attendance at
said dance is limited and restricted to members of such organization, nor shall
a permit be required for dances sponsored or conducted by school organizations
where the attendance is limited to children of school age, nor shall a permit
be required of businesses which possess liquor or beer licenses. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CLOSING OUT SALES
(Rep. by Ord. 1179, 10-11-2005)
CHAPTER 12
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Purpose
3-12-2: Approved Locations; Conditional Use Permit Required
3-12-3: Permitted Uses In Recreational Vehicle Parks
3-12-4: Design And Development Requirements
3-12-5: Procedures For Recreational Vehicle Park Approval
3-12-1: PURPOSE:
To provide for recreational vehicle parks for the temporary placement and
occupancy of recreational vehicles on rented spaces with supporting services.
These regulations are intended to enable the development of unique, well
planned projects incorporating a variety of vehicle based housing for temporary
occupancy. It is also the purpose of this chapter to provide adequate
regulations to preserve the residential character of the development and to
prohibit incompatible land uses. (Ord. 1094, 2-14-2000)
3-12-2: APPROVED LOCATIONS; CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Districts: No recreational vehicle park shall be located in
a district zoned A residential.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Required: A building permit may be issued for
the construction of a new recreational vehicle park or the expansion of an
existing recreational vehicle park in the following districts, upon the
approval of the proposed location and the granting of a conditional use permit
in zones B, B-1, B-1T, C and D. (Ord. 1094, 2-14-2000)
3-12-3: PERMITTED USES IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
The following uses are approved:
Common use laundry facilities, maintenance buildings, and security guardhouses
which may be of conventional construction.
Designated areas for boat or trailer storage, which are used solely by the
residents of the park.
Manager's office and/or residence which may be of conventional construction.
One recreational vehicle on each approved lot or space. No manufactured homes
or dwelling units of conventional construction shall be permitted on a lot or
space for living purposes. No recreational vehicle shall be allowed to occupy a
space for more than one hundred eighty (180) days in one calendar year.
Outdoor recreation facilities such as parks, swimming pools, playground
equipment, shuffle board and tennis courts, putting greens and similar
recreational uses intended for use by the residents of the park.
Recreation and social centers, which may be used for dancing, crafts, hobbies,
games, childcare, meetings, banquets, theatrical performances, movie viewing,
and similar entertainment uses which are intended and used primarily as a
resident amenity. Such facility may be of conventional construction.
Recreation center parking lots and guest parking areas. (Ord. 1094, 2-14-2000)
3-12-4: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Recreational vehicle parks shall meet the following minimum design
requirements:
   A.   Density: A maximum density of twenty two (22) recreational vehicle
spaces per net acre after deduction of existing and/or proposed public rights
of way.
   B.   Area: Recreational vehicle spaces at least one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet in area.
      1.   The minimum space width shall be at least twenty four feet (24').
      2.   The minimum space depth shall be at least forty feet (40').
   C.   Setback: A minimum setback of ten feet (10') from any portion of the
recreational vehicle or related awnings to any exterior park boundary.
   D.   Open Space: A minimum of seventy five (75) square feet of recreational
open space and/or recreational facilities for each recreational vehicle space.
Public or private streets, vehicle storage areas and exterior boundary
landscaping areas shall not be included in calculating recreational open space.
   E.   Parking Space: A minimum of one automobile parking space for each
recreational vehicle space.
   F.   Off Street Parking: Adequate off street parking.
   G.   Landscaping Screen: Perimeter live landscaping screen shall be
provided. In addition all areas within the park which are not hard surfaces
shall be landscaped and maintained with lawns, trees, and shrubs designed to
provide privacy and noise containment and shall be equipped with adequate
sprinkling or watering devices.
   H.   Access: Access to lots or spaces shall be from the interior of the
park.
   I.   Streets: Private streets at least twenty four feet (24') in width from
edge of roadway to edge of roadway. Two (2) ways in and out or cul-de-sac with
eighty feet (80') radius arch. Private streets and required parking areas shall
be constructed to the minimum standard of six inches (6") pit run and two
inches (2") crushed rock.
   J.   Utilities: All utilities will be underground. Each space will have an
individual light post with maximum of a sixty (60) watt light bulb.
   K.   Water, Sewer And Electricity: All recreational vehicle spaces shall be
equipped with individual water, sewer, and electrical utility connections. All
applicable regulations of the state of Idaho and city of Weiser shall be met,
particularly, but not limited to, compliance with all building, plumbing,
electrical, mechanical, fire, and flood damage prevention codes.
   L.   Construction Time Limits: All utilities, streets, paved areas and
landscaping, must be completed within one year of the start of construction or
as otherwise approved by the planning and zoning commission.
   M.   Improvements To Be Finished: Improvements are to be in place before
opening for business. (Ord. 1094, 2-14-2000)
3-12-5: PROCEDURES FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK APPROVAL:
   A.   Informal Meeting: The developer shall meet informally with the city
planning department staff to review tentative plans, sketches, and ideas for
the proposed park development, and to advise the developer of the necessary
procedural steps and requirements which must be complied with.
   B.   Plan Review And Approval: Before construction permits are issued for a
recreational vehicle park, the preliminary site plan, required documents
pertaining to the development and the final site plan shall have been approved.
      1.   Preliminary Site Plan: Four (4) copies of the preliminary plan must
be submitted to the planning director at least ten (10) calendar days prior to
the commission meeting at which it is to be considered. The preliminary plan
shall be drawn to scale not smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'), and shall be designed in accordance with this chapter showing the
following information:
         a.   Name(s) of the person(s) who prepared the plan, of persons owning
and managing the land, and the name of the recreational vehicle park and its
address.
         b.   Scale and north point of plan.
         c.   Vicinity map showing relationship of recreational vehicle park to
adjacent properties.
         d.   Boundaries and dimensions of the recreational vehicle park.
         e.   Location and dimension of each recreational vehicle space.
Designate each space by number or letter combination.
         f.   Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed building
including service buildings for the recreational vehicle park.
         g.   Location and width or roadways and walkways.
         h.   Location of recreation areas, playgrounds and buildings.
         i.   Location and type of screening materials or other landscaping.
         j.   Location of point where recreational vehicle park water, sewer
and irrigation systems connect with the public system.
         k.   Locations of existing and proposed utility lines and easements,
water and sewer lines, fire hydrants, fences, storm drains and facilities,
curbs, and other improvements.
         l.   Enlarged plot plan of a typical recreational vehicle space,
showing location of the stand, utility connections and landscaping.
         m.   Any other data that the planning and zoning commission may
require.
      2.   Commission Action:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the plan to
determine compliance with the regulations contained therein. In considering
approval of the development, the commission shall, among other things, make
sure that such development will be compatible with the surrounding area, that
it will not produce a volume of traffic beyond the capacity of the surrounding
street system, that requirements for utilities, off street parking, traffic
circulation and other public requirements will be adequately met and that the
standards and intent of this section shall be adequately complied with.
         b.   The commission may require changes to be made in the plan. They
may also require additional yards or buffers or other improvements to be
installed along with greater amounts of landscaping or parking spaces. Said
changes may be imposed as conditions of approval where it is determined by the
commission that such changes are necessary to ensure that the development will
be compatible with adjoining or nearby uses.
         c.   The commission shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the preliminary site plan within forty five (45) calendar days after
the date of the regular meeting at which it was first formally presented unless
an extension of time is agreed upon by all concerned. The reasons for such
action by the commission shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall be
sent to the developer. Approval of the preliminary site plan shall be for a
period of one year.
         d.   If the park is ten (10) or fewer lots, the developer can combine
preliminary and final plats.
      3.   Final Site Plan: Upon approval of the preliminary site plan by the
commission, the developer shall submit to the planning director four (4) copies
of the final site plan and final copies for the required documents. Review and
approval procedures for the final site plan and documents shall be the same as
for the preliminary site plan. Such plan shall be drawn at a scale not smaller
than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') and provide in detail the
information required for preliminary site plans. A survey plat of the property
shall be submitted in conjunction with the final site plan. In addition,
detailed and complete plans of the following shall be required:
         a.   Water, sewer, irrigation systems.
         b.   Garbage disposal provisions.
         c.   Road and walkway construction.
         d.   On site drainage system, including topography of the park site
with contour intervals which reflect the character and drainage of the land.
         e.   Recreation and improvements.
         f.   Landscaping.
         g.   Electrical system for recreational vehicle spaces and grounds.
      4.   Appeals: Any aggrieved person whose preliminary or final site plan
has been disapproved by the commission may appeal to the council for a hearing
to review the action of the commission. Such appeal shall be submitted within
fifteen (15) calendar days of the action by the commission.
      5.   Fees: Persons filing preliminary and/or final site plans shall pay a
nonrefundable plan review fee. A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for up to
ten (10) spaces, or fifty dollars ($50.00) plus ten dollars ($10.00) per space
for more than ten (10) spaces. (Ord. 1094, 2-14-2000)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Building Department, Building Inspector
4-1-2: Duty To Enforce Codes
4-1-3: Duty To Collect Fees, Enforce Zoning Regulations
4-1-1: BUILDING DEPARTMENT, BUILDING INSPECTOR:
There is hereby established a building department for the city of Weiser, which
shall be under the jurisdiction of a building inspector. (Ord. 1236, 11-13-
2013)
4-1-2: DUTY TO ENFORCE CODES:
The building inspector and those persons acting under his authority are hereby
authorized and directed to enforce all building and safety codes of the city 1
which shall be adopted by reference the same as if set forth at length and in
detail in the municipal code of the city. (Ord. 850, 3-23-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
4-1-3: DUTY TO COLLECT FEES, ENFORCE ZONING REGULATIONS:
The building inspector or those acting under his authority shall be responsible
for the collection of water, building, gas, sewer and electrical fees prior to
the issuing of building permits, and shall further be responsible for the
enforcement of the zoning regulations of the city 1 . (Ord. 850, 3-23-1976)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of Codes
4-2-2: Demolition And Removal Of Buildings
4-2-3: Building Permit Fees
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The current edition of the following nationally recognized codes, as adopted by
the state of Idaho, which may be hereafter revised, amended, or supplemented,
are hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city, as fully as
though set forth at length herein:
   A.   International building code.
   B.   International mechanical code.
   C.   International fire code.
   D.   Uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, published by the
Intermountain Conference Of Building Officials.
   E.   Uniform sign code, published by the Intermountain Conference Of
Building Officials.
   F.   Life safety code, published by the National Fire Protection
Association.
   G.   Portable fire extinguisher code, published by the National Fire
Protection Association.
   H.   International electrical code.
   I.   International plumbing code.
   J.   Idaho standards for public works construction.
   K.   International residential code.
   L.   International energy conservation code.
The above mentioned codes shall regulate the erection, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area
and maintenance of buildings or structures in the city, provide for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor, and provide penalties for
the violation thereof.
One copy of the aforesaid codes together with all amendments thereto, duly
certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file in his office for use and
examination of and by the public. (Ord. 1142, 1-13-2003)
4-2-2: DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permit, Bond And Insurance Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person, partnership, firm, company, corporation or association to demolish,
move or remove any two (2) story or larger (not including basement) commercial
or industrial building or structure within, without or into the corporate
limits of the city without first securing a permit therefor from the building
department. Application for the permit required by this section shall be made
in writing and shall give the location of the building or structure to be
demolished or removed, the date when such work is to commence, the approximate
time which such demolition and removal shall take place and such additional
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the building department
in issuing the permit applied for. No permit shall be issued by the building
department unless: (Ord. 822, 3-8-1973; amd. 1987 Code)
      1.   The applicant shall deposit and file with the building department a
surety bond issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state of Idaho, to insure that the property is in a proper and safe condition
after such demolition and removal, that all debris is cleared away and that any
excavation remaining is either filled in or surrounded by adequate barricades,
the latter of which shall be lighted at night if the building department finds
that such lighting will be required to protect the health, safety and welfare
of people. The surety bond shall be kept and maintained in force and effect for
at least one year in amounts to be determined by the director of the building
department, in accordance with the scope of the work contemplated; and (Ord.
822, 3-8-1973)
      2.   A public liability insurance policy, or a certificate of liability
insurance, is to be secured and filed with the building department providing
limits for property damage and personal injuries in amounts determined adequate
by the director of the building department, in accordance with the scope of the
work contemplated, and which insurance policy or certificate of liability
insurance shall name the city as a named insured by which to indemnify and save
and hold harmless the city from any and all claims, demands, actions and
damages which may arise on account of injuries to persons or properties caused
by or related to the work authorized to be done pursuant to a permit. (Ord.
822, 3-8-1973; amd. 1987 Code)
Any permit may be revoked by the building department where the holder thereof
fails to comply with any of the rules or regulations under which it is granted,
or when, in the opinion of the building inspector, public convenience and
safety require such revocation.
   B.   Fee: There shall be a fee of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for the
issuing of a permit under the terms of this provision.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
demolition and removal of buildings used as outbuildings incidental to a main
building where the same does not encompass a square foot area in excess of six
hundred (600) square feet.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 822, 3-8-1973)
4-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees as provided in nationally recognized codes adopted by the
city may be modified by resolution of the city council based upon the current
cost evaluation formula. The current building permit fee schedule shall be kept
in the office of the city clerk for public examination. (Ord. 1195, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 3
FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Electric Fences Prohibited
4-3-2: Barbed Wire Fences, Areas Permitted; Other Types To Comply With
Regulations
4-3-3: Construction Materials Prohibited
4-3-4: Building Permit Required
4-3-5: General Regulations
4-3-1: ELECTRIC FENCES PROHIBITED:
Electric fences are prohibited in the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 876,
6-12-1978)
4-3-2: BARBED WIRE FENCES, AREAS PERMITTED; OTHER TYPES TO COMPLY WITH
REGULATIONS:
In the commercial and industrial zones, barbed wire may be permitted when used
as the top section for security fences and shall be a minimum of seventy two
inches (72") above grade. For the purposes of this section, walls, latticework
and screens shall be considered to be fences and shall be built and maintained
in compliance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 876, 6-12-1978)
4-3-3: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS PROHIBITED:
The use of boxes, sheet metal, old or decayed wood, broken masonry blocks or
other like unsightly materials is hereby prohibited for fences. (Ord. 876, 6-
12-1978)
4-3-4: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct a fence within the city without obtaining a
building permit. (1987 Code)
4-3-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Upon and within lots in all residential districts and for dwelling units in all
districts, the following shall apply:
   A.   Interior Lots And Corner Lots: Solid or closed, nonvision fences to a
height of thirty six inches (36"), or open vision type fences to a height of
forty eight inches (48"), may be built from the front of the building unit to
and including the front property line. Such fences to a height of ninety six
inches (96") may be built from the front of the dwelling unit to and including
the rear property line. Fences exceeding ninety six inches (96") in height
shall be permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit to the
landowner. (Ord. 1173, 8-8-2005)
   B.   Nonconforming Fences: Where there is a nonconforming fence in
existence, it may be kept if maintained in a state of good repair. If such an
existing fence has been out of use for six (6) months or longer, it shall not
be repaired but shall be removed as required in subsection 10-3-3E of this code
for nonconforming land use.
   C.   B-1 Zone: In the B-1 zone, barbed wire and netting wire may be
permitted where the provisions of the city allow livestock to graze. (Ord. 876,
6-12-1978)
CHAPTER 4
FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Findings Of Fact
4-4-2: Statement Of Purpose
4-4-3: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
4-4-4: Definitions
4-4-5: Land To Which This Chapter Applies
4-4-6: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
4-4-7: Penalties For Noncompliance
4-4-8: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
4-4-9: Interpretation
4-4-10: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
4-4-11: Establishment Of Development Permit
4-4-11-1: Development Permit Required
4-4-11-2: Application For Development Permit
4-4-11-3: Designation Of The Building Inspector
4-4-11-4: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Building Inspector
4-4-11-5: Variance Procedure
4-4-12: General Standards
4-4-12-1: Anchoring
4-4-12-2: AH Zone Drainage
4-4-12-3: Construction Materials And Methods
4-4-12-4: Utilities
4-4-12-5: Subdivision Proposals
4-4-12-6: Review Of Building Permits
4-4-13: Specific Standards
4-4-13-1: Residential Construction
4-4-13-2: Nonresidential Construction
4-4-13-3: Manufactured Homes
4-4-13-4: Recreational Vehicles
4-4-14: AE And A1-30 Zones With Base Flood Elevations But No Floodways
4-4-15: Floodways
4-4-16: Standards For Shallow Flooding Areas (AO Zones)
4-4-17: Critical Facility
4-4-18: Severability
4-4-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
Whereas the legislature of the state of Idaho has in Idaho Code sections 46-
1020 through 46-1024 delegated the responsibility to local government units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry; and whereas the city council finds:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Weiser are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the accumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare; reduce the annual cost of flood insurance; and minimize public
and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions
designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard;
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers that
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: Low cost buildings that do not exceed five hundred (500)
square feet, such as detached two (2) car garages, boathouses, small pole barns
and storage sheds, not to be used for human habitation, shall be constructed
and placed on the building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow
of floodwaters; shall be anchored to prevent floatation which may result in
damage to other structures; service utilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of this
chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated as AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). AO zones have base flood depths that range from one to three
feet (1 - 3') above the natural ground; a clearly defined channel does not
exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity
flow may be evident. AO is characterized as sheet flow; AH indicates ponding,
and is shown with standard base flood elevations.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: Land in the floodplain within a community subject
to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also referred to as the "100-year flood").
Designated on flood insurance rate maps by the letters A or V.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might
be too great. Critical facilities include (but are not limited to) schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations,
and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building that has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The official form (FEMA form 81-31) used to track
development, provide elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with
community floodplain management ordinances, and determine the proper insurance
premium rate with section B completed by community officials.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the adopted floodplain management regulations.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): An elevation that shall correspond to the
elevation of the one percent (1%) chance flood (100-year flood) plus any
increased flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus any freeboard.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel required to discharge and store the floodwater or flood
flows associated with the regulatory flood.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements found at subsection
4-4-13-1B of this chapter (i.e., provided there are adequate flood ventilation
openings).
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle."
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of adopted floodplain management regulations.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOOD: A flood determined to be representative of large floods known
to have occurred in Idaho and which may be expected to occur on a particular
stream because of like physical characteristics. The regulatory flood is based
upon a statistical analysis of stream flow records available for the watershed
or analysis of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the watershed. In inland
areas, the flood frequency of the regulatory flood is once every one hundred
(100) years; this means that any given year there is a one percent (1%) chance
that a regulatory flood may occur or be exceeded.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before damage occurred.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term can exclude:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct precited
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been previously identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions, or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter that permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
WATER DEPENDENT: A structure for commerce or industry that cannot exist in any
other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic nature
of its operations. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-5: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city of Weiser. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-6: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Washington County, Idaho And Incorporated Areas" dated June
16, 2009, with an accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter. The flood
insurance study and the FIRM are on file at Weiser City Hall, 55 West Idaho
Street, Weiser, Idaho. The best available information for flood hazard area
identification as outlined in subsection
4-4-11-4B of this chapter shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM is
issued that incorporates data utilized under subsection
4-4-11-4B of this chapter. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-7: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions), shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisoned for not more than
thirty (30) days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-8: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 1211, 5-
11-2009)
4-4-9: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-10: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof, or the federal insurance administration, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
4-4-11-1: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in section
4-4-6 of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in section
4-4-4, "Definitions", of this chapter and for all development including fill
and other activities, also as set forth in section
4-4-4, "Definitions", of this chapter. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-11-2: APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
city and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following
information is required:
   A.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures recorded on a current elevation certificate (FF 81-
31) with section B completed by the local official.
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been
floodproofed; and
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet floodproofing
criteria in section
4-4-13-2 of this chapter;
   D.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-11-3: DESIGNATION OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The city building inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement
this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-11-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR:
Duties of the building inspector shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection 4-4-15A of this chapter are met.
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data (In A Zone): When base flood elevation
data has not been provided (in A zones) in accordance with section
4-4-6, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter the building inspector shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer sections
4-4-13, "Specific Standards", and
4-4-15, "Floodways", of this chapter.
   C.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, FIRM, or required as in subsection B of this section, obtain
and record the actual (as built) elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of
the lowest flood (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement. Recorded on a
current elevation certificate (FF 81-31) with section B completed by the local
official.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed nonresidential
structures where base flood elevation data is provided through the FIS, FIRM,
or as required in subsection B of this section:
         a.   Obtain and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which the structure was floodproofed;
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection
4-4-11-2C of this chapter.
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the department of water resources
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal insurance administration.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   E.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed,
as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(e.g., where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation. Such
appeals shall be granted consistent with the standards of section 60.6 of the
rules and regulations of the national flood insurance program. (Ord. 1211, 5-
11-2009)
4-4-11-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal Board: The city council as established by ordinance shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      1.   The city council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
city in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      2.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the city council or any taxpayer,
may appeal such decision to the district court, as provided by Idaho Code.
      3.   In passing upon such applications, the city council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historical places
or the state inventory of historic places, without regard to procedures set
forth in this section.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      6.   Variances as interpreted in the national flood insurance program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from flood elevations should be quite rare.
      7.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria except subsection B1 of
this section, and otherwise complies with sections
4-4-12-1,
4-4-12-3, and
4-4-12-4 of this chapter.
      8.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the permitted structure will be built with its lowest floor below
the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
(Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12-1: ANCHORING:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   B.   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. (Ord.
1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12-2: AH ZONE DRAINAGE:
Adequate drainage paths are required around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12-3: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   C.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding. Locating such equipment below the
base flood elevation may cause annual flood insurance premiums to be increased.
(Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12-4: UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   B.   Water wells shall be located on high ground that is not in the
floodway;
   C.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   D.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12-5: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
   B.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage;
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damages;
   D.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less). (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-12-6: REVIEW OF BUILDING PERMITS:
Where elevation data is not available either through the flood insurance study,
FIRM, or from another authoritative source (subsection 4-4-11-4B of this
chapter), applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that
proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to
elevate at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade in these zones
may result in higher insurance rates. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-13: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
4-4-6, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter or subsection
4-4-11-4B, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data (In A Zone)", of this chapter. The
following provisions are required. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-13-1: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation (FPE).
   B.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings
or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      4.   Below grade, crawl spaces are prohibited at sites where the velocity
of floodwaters exceeds five feet (5') per second.
      5.   All building utility systems within the crawl space shall be
elevated above the flood protection elevation (FPE) or be designed so that
floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system component during
flood.
      6.   The interior of a crawl space below the flood protection elevation
(FPE) must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade (LAG) and the height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation must
not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
      7.   Below grade, crawl spaces constructed in accordance with the
requirements listed in this subsection shall not be considered basements.
However, applicants who construct buildings that have below grade crawl spaces
are hereby advised that such buildings will have higher flood insurance
premiums than buildings that have crawl spaces with interior elevations at or
above the lowest adjacent grade. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-13-2: NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or
other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation (FPE); or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
   A.   Be floodproofed so that to or above the base flood protection elevation
(FPE) the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water;
   B.   Have structural components capable or resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
   C.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection
4-4-11-4C2 of this chapter;
   D.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection
4-4-13-1B of this section. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-13-3: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes in the floodplain to be placed or substantially
improved on sites shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the flood
protection elevation (FPE) and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement. (Ord.
1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-13-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Recreational vehicles placed on sites are required to either:
   A.   Be on the site for fewer that one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
   C.   Meet the requirements of section
4-4-13-3 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-14: AE AND A1-30 ZONES WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT NO FLOODWAYS:
In areas with flood protection elevations (FPE) (but a regulatory floodway has
not been designated), no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-
2009)
4-4-15: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
4-4-6 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that can carry
debris, and increase erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
4-4-12 through
4-4-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-16: STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS (AO ZONES):
Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMs as AO zones with depth designations. The
base flood depths in these zones range from one to three feet (1 - 3')
aboveground where a clearly defined channel does not exist, or where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is usually characterized as sheet flow. In these areas, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   New construction and substantial improvements of residential structures
and manufactured homes within AO zones shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the building, to or
above the flood protection elevation (FPE) (at least 2 feet if no depth number
is specified on the FIRM).
   B.   New construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures within AO zones shall either:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement elevated above the highest
adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the flood protection elevation
(FPE) (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified on the FIRM).
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as in subsection 4-4-13-2C of this chapter.
   C.   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   D.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO zones on the
community's FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer that one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet requirements of this section and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-17: CRITICAL FACILITY:
Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) (100-year
floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible
within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available. Critical
facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated
three feet (3') above the flood protection elevation (FPE) or to the height of
the 500-year flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical
facility should also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing
and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the level of the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be provided to all
critical facilities to the extent possible. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
4-4-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1211, 5-11-2009)
CHAPTER 5
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Permitted Locations; Requirements
4-5-3: Permit Procedures
4-5-4: Fees
4-5-5: Appeals, Variances, And Enforcement
4-5-6: Miscellaneous
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CABANAS: Stationary structures with two (2) or more walls used adjacent to
homes to provide additional living space.
CITY: City of Weiser.
COMPARABLE SIZE AND VALUE OF SURROUNDING PROPERTIES: The new structures must be
within eighty percent (80%) of the average square footage of the surrounding
properties within three hundred feet (300'). If compliance to this requirement
can not be readily determined, then a determination will be made by a majority
vote of the city planning and zoning commission at their next scheduled regular
meeting, which will be considered as binding, subject to the approval of the
city council.
FOUNDATION BASE: A base for proper support of a HUD manufactured home meeting
the requirements of this chapter.
HUD: The national uniform code of housing and urban development.
LOT: A building lot that satisfies this code.
NONCONFORMING USES: A manufactured housing unit which was legally placed upon a
lot prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be a legal nonconforming use
may not be replaced by a new unit or relocated within the city without
conforming to all ordinances of the city.
PERMANENTLY FIXED: A HUD manufactured home which has the running gear and
towing hitch removed, is equipped with a permanent foundation base and
foundation facia conforming to this chapter, and has permanently installed
utility connections conforming to this code.
PLACEMENT: A permanently affixed HUD manufactured home shall meet the
requirements of the city with respect to curbs, gutters, parking, and setbacks.
RAMADAS: Stationary structures having a roof extending over the HUD
manufactured home and sometimes over patios and parking spaces.
TYPE I MANUFACTURED HOME: A type I manufactured home shall include any U.S.
department of housing and urban development (HUD) approved doublewide,
multisectional, single-family dwelling which meets the following minimum
standards: must contain a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet of
livable space, and minimum width of twenty four feet (24') when joined. Must
have a gable type roof with a minimum thirty (30) pounds per square foot load
capacity. Roof must be covered with wood, asphalt, or fiberglass shingles. Must
have house type siding. Must bear the tag or seal of approval of the state in
which the home was manufactured and the approval of HUD, which shall be
permanently attached to the home or a certificate of rehabilitation compliance
as required by Idaho Code title 44, chapter 25.
TYPE II MANUFACTURED HOME: A type II manufactured home shall include any U.S.
department of housing and urban development (HUD) approved single or
multisection, single-family dwelling which meets the following minimum
standards: roof must have a minimum thirty (30) pounds per square foot load
capacity, must bear a tag or seal of approval of the state in which the home
was manufactured and the approval of HUD, which shall be permanently attached
to the home or a certificate of rehabilitation compliance as required in Idaho
Code title 44, chapter 25.
TYPE III MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME: All mobile or manufactured homes not
meeting the above minimum requirements.
UBC: Uniform building code, adopted by the city by ordinance. (Ord. 939, 8-13-
1984; amd. 1987 Code; Ord. 1146, 7-14-2003; Ord. 1166, 2-14-2005)
4-5-2: PERMITTED LOCATIONS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Locations:
      1.   Type I Manufactured Homes: HUD approved type I manufactured homes
manufactured after June 15, 1976, or having been rehabilitated and bearing a
certificate of compliance as provided in Idaho Code title 44, chapter 25, which
fully comply with all sections of this code, may be placed in any residential
district within the city, providing the home is of comparable size and value
with the surrounding properties and in any mobile home park. (Ord. 1146, 7-14-
2003)
      2.   Type II Manufactured Homes: HUD approved type II manufactured homes
manufactured after June 15, 1976, or manufactured homes having a certificate of
compliance as provided by title 44, section 25 of Idaho Code, which fully
comply with all sections of this code, may be placed only in any designated
mobile home park. (Ord. 1167, 2-14-2005)
      3.   Type III Manufactured Homes: No type III mobile or manufactured
homes may be placed within the city after August 1, 1995.
      4.   Occupancy Permit Required: No manufactured home may be occupied
until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. The
manufactured home shall comply with all building, electrical, and plumbing
codes of the state and the city before an occupancy permit shall be issued
except that manufactured homes placed in mobile home parks shall not be
required to have permanent foundations. No power or utility shall be supplied
until such time as a certificate of occupancy has been issued. (Ord. 1037, 8-
14-1995)
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   Utilization And Placement: A HUD manufactured home must be utilized
as a permanent family dwelling, must be permanently affixed on an approved
foundation, be placed upon a legal lot and conform to all placement
requirements.
      2.   Site And Drainage: The ground around the home shall be sloped to
provide positive drainage of surface water away from the foundation for a
distance of ten feet (10') unless restricted by lot line, with care taken to
avoid draining onto adjoining property.
      3.   Foundations: Excavation for footings shall extend into solid,
undisturbed natural bearing soil. All vegetation and organic material shall be
removed and footings shall be placed on fill or uncompacted gravel. (Ord. 939,
8-13-1984)
Piers shall be set on concrete continuous footings, sixteen inches wide by
eight inches high (16" x 8") high with reinforcing bars. Footing shall extend
one and one-half feet (11/2') beyond each end pier. Pier spacing shall be eight
feet (8') on center maximum. Flat shims shall be required between concrete
block piers and steel supports. Any alternate design shall be supported by
engineering calculations (see appendix B which is on file in the office of the
city clerk, for cross sections and blocking diagrams). (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984;
amd. 1987 Code)
Piers comprised of one or more tiers of open cell concrete block must be placed
with the cells in a vertical position. The height between ground level and the
home's floor joists shall be at least eighteen inches (18") and cannot exceed
forty inches (40"). The blocks must be installed at right angles to the chassis
beam. (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
      4.   Electrical Service: Shall meet state electrical codes. (1987 Code)
      5.   Perimeter Foundation: The space between the wall of the manufactured
home and the ground shall be fully enclosed with a masonry foundation which is
aesthetically harmonious and compatible with the home, which shall include the
following:
         a.   An access door at least eighteen inches by twenty four inches
(18" x 24") in size.
         b.   Ventilation openings provided for each twenty five (25) linear
feet of perimeter wall and within two feet (2') of each corner. Each opening
shall have a minimum net area of thirty six (36) square inches and must have a
corrosion resistant wire mesh not less than one-fourth inch (1/4") nor more
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
      6.   Porches And Entry Platforms: Main and service entry porches,
platforms, and steps shall conform to the following minimum standards:
         a.   Platform on porch floors shall be at least forty eight inches by
forty eight inches (48" x 48") in size.
         b.   When the platform or porch exceeds four (4) or more risers in
height, then a guardrail must be provided on all open sides of the porch or
platform. Guardrails shall not be less than thirty six inches (36") in height,
shall be constructed of durable materials, and have adequate strength for the
intended purpose.
         c.   Steps serving main and service entries shall have a minimum width
of thirty inches (30") or the width of the walk, whichever is greater. The run
shall be a minimum of nine inches (9"), and the rise a maximum of eight inches
(8"). All risers shall be the same height.
         d.   Wood structures shall maintain a six inch (6") separation between
the wood and the ground surfaces. Wood support posts shall be placed upon
concrete blocks.
      7.   Water Supply, Sanitation, And Power: All manufactured homes shall be
properly connected to city water, sewer and electrical power, in accordance
with city standards. (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
      8.   Fireplaces And Stoves: Solid fuel burning factory built fireplaces
and wood stoves, which are UL or CBO approved for use in manufactured homes,
may be installed in HUD approved manufactured homes provided the units and
their installation conform to this section. A fireplace or stove shall not be
considered as a primary heating facility. All fireplaces and stoves shall
conform to the following standards (see appendix A which is on file in the
office of the city clerk for typical installation): (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984; amd.
1987 Code)
         a.   The heating unit shall be equipped with integral door(s) or
shutter(s) designed to close the unit's fire chamber opening.
         b.   The heating unit shall be securely attached to the manufactured
home.
         c.   A listed UL or ICBO factory built chimney shall be equipped with
and contain as part of its listing, a termination device(s) and a spark
arrestor.
         d.   A heating unit, air intake assembly, hearth extension, and the
chimney shall be installed in accordance with the terms of their listing and
their manufacturer's instructions.
         e.   The combustion air intake shall conduct air directly into the
fire chamber and shall be designed to prevent material from the hearth or
heating unit to drop onto the area beneath the home.
         f.   Hearth extensions shall be of noncombustible material not less
than three-eighths inch (3/8") thick. The hearth shall extend at least sixteen
inches (16") in front of and at least eight inches (8") beyond each side of the
heating unit's opening. Furthermore, the hearth shall extend over the entire
surface beneath a stove and beneath an elevated or overhanging fireplace.
         g.   The label on each heating unit shall include the following
wording: "For use with solid fuel only" and shall indicate UL or ICBO approved.
         h.   The chimney shall extend at least three feet (3') above the part
of the roof through which it passes and at least two feet (2') above the
highest elevation of any part of the home which is within ten feet (10') of the
chimney.
      9.   Smoke Detectors: All manufactured homes shall have a properly placed
and installed smoke detector.
      10.   Alterations: A permit from the city is required for alterations of
any mechanical, electrical, plumbing or structural change.
         a.   Cabana: If factory assembled, they must meet HUD construction and
safety standards and be inspected and approved by the administrative authority.
All on site construction must meet the UBC as adopted by the city.
         b.   Ramadas: Ramadas are not permitted within the city.
      11.   Equitable Interest On Lot: The person(s) desiring to place a
manufactured home within the city shall own or have an equitable interest in
the real property upon which the home is to be placed. (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
4-5-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Site Permit: Shall be issued by the administrative authority upon
receipt and approval of a plot plan showing the following:
      1.   Show lot and block numbers and street address if known.
      2.   Show dimensions of plot and north arrow.
      3.   Show location and dimensions of home, setback requirements,
easements if any, awnings, carports, garages, and other accessory buildings.
      4.   Show location and dimensions of walks, driveways, steps, patios,
porches, and fences.
      5.   Show water, sewer, and electrical site schematics.
   B.   Building Permit: Shall be required to cover any accessory buildings and
all on site construction, including footings, foundations, steps, walks,
driveways, porches, and decks. The application shall contain the same
information as required for the site permit. The building permit may be issued
to the owner or the contractor. (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
4-5-4: FEES:
   A.   A placement fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be charged
for placement of a manufactured home within the city.
   B.   A building permit fee shall be assessed upon all on site construction,
as defined under the uniform building code, table 3A, based upon the value of
improvements. (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
4-5-5: APPEALS, VARIANCES, AND ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of title 10, chapter 14 of this code shall apply to appeals,
requests for variances, and enforcement under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 939, 8-13-1984; amd. 1987 Code)
4-5-6: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   Subdivisions: Subdivisions within the city may have restrictive
covenants prohibiting manufactured homes.
   B.   Repealer: All ordinances or sections thereof in conflict with this
chapter are hereby repealed.
   C.   Severability: The sections of this chapter are severable; the
invalidity of a section shall not affect the validity of the remaining
sections. (Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
CHAPTER 6
HISTORIC PRESERVATION CODE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Historic Preservation Commission
4-6-3-1: Organization, Officers, Rules, Meetings
4-6-3-2: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
4-6-4: Special Restrictions
4-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the city through identification,
evaluation, designation and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures and objects which reflect significant elements of the city's, the
state's and the nation's historic, architectural, archaeological and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 963, 3-16-1987)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Weiser, Idaho.
COMMISSION: The historic preservation commission of the city of Weiser, Idaho.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas and sites
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this state,
its communities or the nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in
the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, state or
the nation. (Ord. 963, 3-16-1987)
4-6-3: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   A.   There is hereby created a historic preservation commission which shall
consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the council.
   B.   All members of the commission shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The council shall
endeavor to appoint at least two (2) members with professional training or
experience in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history,
urban planning, archaeology, engineering, law or other historic preservation
related disciplines.
   C.   Initial appointments to the commission shall be made as follows: one 1-
year term; two (2) 2-year terms; two (2) 3-year terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   D.   Appointments to the commission shall be as follows: All appointments
will be from persons residing in the city or within three (3) miles thereof,
and two (2) of those persons so appointed shall be appointed to sit on the
Washington County historical preservation commission. (Ord. 963, 3-16-1987)
4-6-3-1: ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, RULES, MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall have the power to make whatever rules are
necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this chapter. Rules
of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall be available for public
inspection.
   B.   The commission shall elect officers from among the commission members.
The chairman shall preside at meetings of the commission. The vice chairman
shall, in the absence of the chairman, perform the duties of the chairman.
   C.   All meetings of the commission shall be open to the public and follow
the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws 1 . The commission shall keep
minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings
and actions.
   D.   The commission may recommend to the council, within the limits of its
funding, the employment of or the contracting with other parties for the
services of technical experts or other persons as it deems necessary to carry
on the functions of the commission. (Ord. 963, 3-16-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-2341 et seq.
4-6-3-2: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall be advisory to the council and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lessor interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands by purchase, bequests or
donation.
   C.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
city.
   D.   Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Contract, with the approval of the council, with the state or federal
government, or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
   F.   Cooperate with the federal, state and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Make recommendations in the planning processes undertaken by the
county, the city, the state or the federal government and the agencies of these
entities.
   H.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the purposes
of historic preservation in the city.
   I.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic
preservation and historic properties in the city.
   J.   Commission members, employees or agents of the commission may enter
private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of their official
duties only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   K.   Review nominations of properties to the national register of historic
places for properties within the city's jurisdiction. (Ord. 963, 3-16-1987)
4-6-4: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-4612, the city may provide by
ordinances, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of historic properties. (Ord. 963, 3-16-1987)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TEMPORARY SHELTERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Occupation Of Recreational Vehicles And Temporary Shelters Prohibited
4-7-2: Temporary Use Permits
4-7-1: OCCUPATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to occupy or permit to be placed for occupation any tent,
recreational vehicle, motor home, travel trailer, overhead camper, or other
temporary outdoor shelter or dwelling on any lot (without regard to whether the
said lot is occupied or vacant), or parking lot within the city, other than in
a designated RV park, for more than thirty (30) total days in a consecutive
365-day period; any other occupation of City property shall be as otherwise
authorized pursuant to City Code.
A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each violation. Each day for which the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1034, 4-10-1995; amd. Ord.
1253, 3-10-2020)
4-7-2: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:
   A.   Notwithstanding Section
4-7-1 , a residential property owner in the city may, upon application, obtain
one (1) "Temporary Use Permit" to site a recreational vehicle, motor home,
travel trailer, or overhead camper to be occupied for temporary living quarters
for a period not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180) days in any one
consecutive 365-day period in the event there is an active building permit on
the property for remodel or construction of a permanent dwelling in place. Any
such temporary living quarters shall. at all times, have serviceable water.
wastewater. and electrical services. The location and sufficiency of any such
temporary use recreational vehicle shall be submitted with the site plan for
the construction and shall be approved by the appropriate City officials,
including without limit, the building inspector and Chief of Police. (Ord.
1253, 3-10-2020)
CHAPTER 8
TEMPORARY STORAGE STRUCTURES AND CONTAINERS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Placement Of Temporary Storage Structures Or Containers Within The City
4-8-1: PLACEMENT OF TEMPORARY STORAGE STRUCTURES OR CONTAINERS WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or for
any property owner to permit or continue the placement of a temporary storage
structure or container within the city of Weiser without a permit issued by the
Weiser city building official.
   B.   Primary Permit Conditions: Issuance of a permit to place a portable
storage structure or container shall be subject to the following conditions:
      1.   One (1) permit may be issued for temporary placement of not more
than two (2) temporary storage structures or containers for a period of time
not to exceed ninety (90) days in any one calendar year.
      2.   Temporary storage structures or containers shall not be placed in
the public right of way.
      3.   Permittees must comply with the setbacks and other conditions
specified in the definitions portion of this chapter specific to the type of
structure or container for which the permit is issued.
   C.   Definitions:
     BULK SOLID WASTE CONTAINER: A container intended for construction, waste
materials or other refuse, excluding garbage, for the purpose of removing said
materials from a site.
    CARGO CONTAINER: A container intended for multimodal transportation via
seagoing vessel, train, and trailer. These containers are self-contained
without axles or wheels.
    CONSTRUCTION TRAILER/CONTAINER/PORTABLE STRUCTURE: A trailer, portable
temporary container, or portable structure with or without axles and wheels,
intended to support construction activity at a site with an active building
permit.
    PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER: A self-storage container that is delivered to
and retrieved from a site for use as storage. Portable storage on demand, or
PODs, are portable storage containers for purposes of this chapter. These
containers are not on a chassis and do not have axles or wheels.
    SEMITRAILERS: A mobile trailer not to exceed fifty three feet (53') in
length with a chassis, axles and wheels that is towed by a truck or tractor.
    TEMPORARY STORAGE STRUCTURES: A portable storage unit that does not have a
permanent foundation or footing and which includes cargo containers, portable
storage containers, truck trailers, construction trailers, and bulk solid waste
containers.
   D.   Additional Permit Conditions:
      1.   Temporary storage structures are structures intended to provide
temporary storage of goods and materials. Such temporary structure shall not
interfere with the normal operation of the permanent use on the property and
shall not be detrimental to property or improvements in the surrounding area.
There shall also be no risk of injury to persons as a result of such storage.
      2.   The following additional conditions apply to all temporary storage
structures or containers:
         a.   Cargo containers shall not exceed industry standards for width
and height, and shall not exceed forty feet (40') in length. Such containers
shall be located to the rear or side of the principal building and set back a
minimum of two feet (2') from the side and rear property lines.
         b.   Portable storage containers shall not exceed industry standards
for width, height, and length, not to exceed eight feet (8') wide by ten feet
(10') high by forty feet (40') in length. Such containers shall be set back a
minimum of two feet (2') from the side and rear property lines and ten feet
(10') from front property line.
         c.   Semitruck trailers shall not exceed fifty three feet (53') in
length.
         d.   Construction trailers/containers/portable structures may be used
within the city provided there is an active building permit in place. Such
structures shall be set back a minimum of two feet (2') from the side and rear
property lines and ten feet (10') from the front property line. Such structures
shall be removed within one week of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy or the issuance of a certificate of completion.
         e.   Bulk solid waste containers meeting the same size limitations as
portable storage containers may be used within the city. Such containers shall
be set back a minimum of two feet (2') from the side and rear property lines
and ten feet (10') from front property lines. Such container used in
conjunction with a demolition or building permit shall be moved prior to the
demolition or building permit expiration, the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy or the issuance of a certificate of completion.
         f.    No temporary storage structure shall be located so as to
interfere with traffic.
         g.   No temporary storage structures shall be stacked upon each other.
         h.   The Building Inspector may authorize, upon good cause showing,
the siting of a temporary storage structure offsite of the location, including
within a public right-of-way provided the permit applicant also obtains a
permit pursuant to
8-3-15 . in the instance of an active building permit. or within the proscribed
setbacks, in any instance. Such authorization shall be in writing and shall be
in the discretion of the Building Inspector. upon consultation with the Chief
of Police and any other impacted City departments.
   E.   Emergency Permit: If any person who has been issued a permit under this
Chapter finds it likely that it will be necessary to exceed the proscribed time
limits of the permit because of the occurrence of an event or condition beyond
such person's reasonable control, such as, and not necessarily limited to,
extreme weather events, strikes, civil disorder. or other force majeure events,
and if such event or condition is not attributable to such person's own
negligence, then the person may apply to the City for an "Emergency Permit"
under this section. Any such Emergency Permit shall be issued in the sole and
absolute discretion of the Building Inspector (or other Mayor designated City
official), upon consultation with the Chief of Police and any other impacted
City departments. The Emergency Permit shall be valid for a period not to
exceed ninety (90) days: however, a person shall be authorized to apply for
additional Emergency Permits if the case so requires.
   F.   Penalties For Violation: The owner of any property upon which a
portable storage structure or container has been placed and any individual
placing such structure on the property within the city without a permit or in
excess of the ninety (90) day permit, or in violation of the conditions set
forth herein shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punishable with a
fine in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day the violation
continues. (Ord. 1246, 1-9-2017; amd. Ord. 1252, 3-10-2020)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established
5-1-2: Personnel
5-1-3: Fire Chief; Duties
5-1-4: Assistant Fire Chief; Duties
5-1-5: Firefighter
5-1-6: Training And Driving Of Trucks By New Members
5-1-7: Drills For Fire Department
5-1-8: Eligibility
5-1-9: Pagers
5-1-10: Expulsion Of Members
5-1-11: Members Leaving The Department
5-1-12: Mutual Aid
5-1-13: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
5-1-14: Accidents, City Vehicles
5-1-15: Accidents, Nonvehicular
5-1-16: Fees
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established for the city a volunteer fire department to be
known as the Weiser volunteer fire department. (1987 Code)
5-1-2: PERSONNEL:
The Weiser volunteer fire department shall consist of a fire chief, three (3)
assistant fire chiefs and such other officers and firemen as may be necessary
to efficiently take care of and operate the fire equipment and apparatus of the
city, in going to and from and in fighting fires.
   A.   The chief shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the council
and by the volunteer members. Once appointed, the chief shall serve at the will
of the mayor or council or both. His normal tour of duty shall be four (4)
years unless otherwise removed from office. The chief shall be in charge of
apparatus, equipment, departmental emergencies, file reports of all emergencies
with the appropriate state agencies and shall report and discuss emergencies at
the next regular meeting.
   B.   The assistant chief shall be appointed by the chief and approved by the
members of the fire department. His normal tour of duty shall coincide with
that of the chief. The assistant chief shall take full charge of all duties in
the chief's absence and assist the chief at all other times. (1987 Code)
5-1-3: FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES:
The fire chief shall be the chief executive officer of the fire department and
shall have direct control, management and direction of all officers and men of
said department and the power to detail any of them to such service as he may
see fit in connection with the operation of the department, having in mind the
best interest of the department and its efficient operation. The fire chief
shall exercise supreme command over the department, its members and equipment
at all fires and any officer or member of the department who shall fail to
promptly obey any order or command of the fire chief shall be subject to
immediate discharge by the chief or subject to such other discipline or fine as
may be provided by the rules and regulations of the department hereinafter
provided for. The chief shall cause all fires to be extinguished with the least
possible damage to life and property and shall prevent, as far as possible,
unnecessary damage by water; and, before leaving a fire, he shall see that
conditions are such that the fire will not rekindle and cause further damage to
life or property. All fires will promptly be investigated to determine cause
and origin. Said chief shall make monthly reports to the mayor and council
showing the number of calls responded to and such other pertinent details as
may be desirable or may, from time to time, be required by the mayor or
council. The chief shall put and keep in effect a system of organization so
that each member of the department, in responding to a fire alarm, has a
regular position or duty and see that the members are drilled and become
efficient in their duties so as to work systematically in responding to fire
alarms and fighting fires and in taking care of and handling the fire
apparatus. The chief shall perform such other duties as the mayor and council,
from time to time, shall require or by resolution or motion fix and determine.
(1987 Code)
5-1-4: ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES:
The assistant fire chief shall rank next to the fire chief and shall, in the
absence of said fire chief, perform his duties. In the presence of the chief,
it shall be the duty of the assistant to aid the chief in every possible manner
to maintain strict discipline and ensure efficient operation of the department,
and he shall assist in training all members of the department to become
thoroughly familiar with their duties and well drilled and skilled in their
line of work in fighting fires and responding to fire alarms. (1987 Code)
5-1-5: FIREFIGHTER:
All firefighters shall be trained to handle any and all of the fire apparatus
provided and also to act in any desired capacity in handling first aid
apparatus, hose and pumping engines, ladders, air packs or do salvage work.
They shall do everything within their power to get the fire under control, to
remain at their posts of duty unless excused by the commanding officer and to
return to the fire station with the apparatus from fires, alarms and drills.
(1987 Code)
5-1-6: TRAINING AND DRIVING OF TRUCKS BY NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   New personnel will not be permitted to enter a fire building as a
nozzleman or as a safety person until he has been trained in the use of
breathing apparatus, hoses, nozzles and fireground procedures. This training
will be offered by the department to the personnel after he becomes a member.
   B.   Under no circumstances shall a member be allowed to drive or operate a
piece of fire apparatus until he or she is trained and tested on his or her
performance with the apparatus. Members will be allowed to drive and operate
the equipment on drill nights. (1987 Code)
5-1-7: DRILLS FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   The regular meeting of this department shall be held on the second and
fourth Tuesdays of each month. Special meetings may be called by the president
of the volunteers or the fire chief, or upon the written request of five (5)
members.
   B.   All meetings shall be held at the fire station in Weiser, Idaho, at
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., unless otherwise ordered by the president of
the volunteers, secretary or fire chief. When a meeting is classed as drill
night and the fire chief or someone designated by him is in charge, the meeting
shall be of at least two (2) hours' duration.
   C.   Missing three (3) drills in a row without being excused shall be
grounds for suspension from the department. Members not coming to drill shall
call the station with excuse before the drill. (1987 Code)
5-1-8: ELIGIBILITY:
No person shall be eligible to become a member who is not an actual resident of
the city, who is less than nineteen (19) or more than fifty five (55) years of
age, or who is not of good moral character and sufficient size and strength to
perform the duties of fireman. (1987 Code)
5-1-9: PAGERS:
   A.   Each man on the department will carry a pager at all times that he is
available to go to a fire call. It will be the responsibility of the member for
the proper care of his pager and charger.
   B.   All pagers will be worn in the leather cases unless other arrangements
are made with the fire chief.
   C.   The pagers are used to call the firemen when there is a fire call.
Pagers which get wet should be brought to the fire station as soon as possible
to be dried out. (1987 Code)
5-1-10: EXPULSION OF MEMBERS:
A misdemeanor conviction for an offense involving dishonesty or more than one
misdemeanor conviction for all other offenses is cause for expulsion. (1987
Code)
5-1-11: MEMBERS LEAVING THE DEPARTMENT:
Any member leaving the department shall return all property in his possession
belonging to the department. This includes, but is not limited to, the helmet,
car plate and/or removal of car stickers, badge, and any and all other
property, books, records or clothing. (1987 Code)
5-1-12: MUTUAL AID:
The Weiser fire chief or designated officer in charge may authorize mutual aid
of personnel and equipment to a requesting agency upon request by the fire
chief or officer in charge of that agency. (Ord. 1185, 3-13-2006)
5-1-13: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of any authorized vehicle, when responding to an emergency
call or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section but subject to the conditions
herein stated.
   B.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand the vehicle irrespective of the provisions of this
code.
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as much as may be necessary for safe operation of the emergency
vehicle.
      3.   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement of traffic or
turning of traffic in specified directions.
   C.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signals by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle.
   D.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons or protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard
for the safety of others. (1987 Code)
5-1-14: ACCIDENTS, CITY VEHICLES:
   A.   Personal Injury: If you are involved in a personal injury accident
involving a city owned vehicle:
      1.   Notify the officer in charge as soon as possible.
      2.   Notify the city police department as soon as possible.
      3.   Report the injury on state industrial accident forms.
   B.   No Personal Injury: If you are involved in an accident in a city owned
vehicle not involving an injury, you should:
      1.   Notify the officer in charge as soon as possible.
      2.   Notify the city police department as soon as possible.
      3.   Make necessary reports for insurance purposes. (1987 Code)
5-1-15: ACCIDENTS, NONVEHICULAR:
   A.   Personal Injury: If you incur an injury in the line of duty, you are
required to report the injury to the chief as soon as possible. The report
shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name of injured employee.
      2.   Date and time of injury.
      3.   Brief description of accident.
      4.   Witnesses, if any.
   B.   Department Property: When departmental property (other than automotive)
is lost or damaged, the officer in charge of the shift involved is to make a
report to the fire chief as soon as possible. The report shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Description of property.
      2.   Extent of damage.
      3.   Circumstances of the incident.
      4.   Opinion of the officer as to the responsibility for the loss or
damage. (1987 Code)
5-1-16: FEES:
Fees for services provided by the Weiser city fire and rescue department for
false alarm calls, hazardous material spill calls, or extrication calls and the
party responsible for those fees shall be established by resolution of the city
council of the city of Weiser. The most recent resolution establishing those
fees shall be on file in the office of the Weiser city clerk and available for
public inspection at city hall. (Ord. 1197, 1-8-2007)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: Definition
5-2-3: General Restrictions
5-2-4: Allowable Burning
5-2-5: Burning Requirements
5-2-6: Violation; Exemption
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to eliminate all forms of open
burning except those for which there is no means of producing a similar public
benefit, or such as may be permitted herein. (Ord. 803, 2-4-1971)
5-2-2: DEFINITION:
"Open burning" means the outdoor burning of materials where the products of
combustion are not directed through a duct, passage, smokestack or chimney.
(Ord. 803, 2-4-1971)
5-2-3: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Except as herein otherwise provided, no person shall allow, suffer, cause or
permit the open burning of materials which emit toxic contaminants, large
volumes of smoke, particulates or odors. (Ord. 803, 2-4-1971)
5-2-4: ALLOWABLE BURNING:
   A.   Fires used for the preparation of food, campfires and fires for
recreational purposes, under control of a responsible person.
   B.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazard or for weed
control when no alternative method for control exists; provided, however, that
any such burning shall be under the direction, supervision and with the consent
of the fire chief of the city.
   C.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel.
   D.   Properly operated industrial flares for combustion of flammable gases.
   E.   Open burning of junked vehicles when permitted by the council under the
supervision of the fire chief shall be under the following additional
conditions:
      1.   No burning will be allowed on Saturday, Sunday or any legal holiday.
      2.   Burning hours shall be between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M.
      3.   Tires and floor mats shall be removed from the vehicle prior to
burning.
      4.   Every reasonable effort shall be made on the part of the salvage
operator to prepare the units in such a manner that rapid and efficient
combustion will occur.
      5.   Any such burning shall be conducted only at such times as are
necessary for the immediate preparation of the vehicles for removal from the
area by a commercial concern doing business as a dealer in the remains of car
bodies.
   F.   Burning of plant life grown on the premises in the course of
agricultural, forestry or land clearing operation. (Ord. 803, 2-4-1971)
   G.   The council, after consultation with the Idaho air pollution section of
the state department of health, may establish "cleanup" periods during which
property owners may be allowed, without special permit, to burn leaves,
shrubbery, trimmings, grass and other such material at such times and in such
manner as may be designated in the public proclamation; and, further provided,
that in the event that weather conditions will not permit prime utilization of
such periods for cleanup purposes, that the council may by special resolution
extend or modify the period within which such burning shall be allowed. (Ord.
803, 2-4-1971; amd. 1987 Code)
5-2-5: BURNING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall conduct burning within the provision
of section
5-2-4 of this chapter on or in any public street, alley, road or other public
ground without a permit or other proper authorization.
   B.   Attendance Of Open Fires: All open burning shall be constantly attended
by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. This person shall have a
garden hose connected to the water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment
readily available for use.
   C.   Chief May Prohibit: The chief of the fire department may prohibit any
or all open burning when atmospheric conditions as published by the weather
bureau or the environmental services to burning or when local circumstances
make such fires hazardous. (Ord. 803, 2-4-1971)
5-2-6: VIOLATION; EXEMPTION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully refusing
to comply with any proper requirements of the designated officer shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation of the provisions
hereof continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as repealing or amending in any way
any safety provisions of the fire prevention code heretofore adopted by the
city 1 . All of the safety requirements therein prescribed for outdoor burning,
bonfires or rubbish fires, shall be required of all persons holding permits
under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 803, 2-4-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-2-1C of this code.
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Weeds To Be Controlled
5-3-2: Removal By City; Abatement
5-3-3: Penalty For Violations
5-3-1: WEEDS TO BE CONTROLLED:
   A.   Every owner or occupant of property within the city shall keep weeds
and grasses over eight inches (8") in height continuously cut, weeded out,
removed, sprayed or destroyed on the property owned or occupied. This shall not
only include all weeds on private property, but weeds situated on public
property adjacent to or contiguous to private property, including areas behind
curbs, sidewalks, parking areas and property to the center of alleys and
ditches.
   B.   It is the duty and the responsibility of all landowners to control
noxious weeds as listed by the state of Idaho on the premises. Control of
noxious weeds shall include the prevention, eradication, and restoration of
lands to be free of noxious weeds. Failure of the landowner to control noxious
weeds may result in the city controlling the noxious weeds at the expense of
the landowner as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   The term "weeds" shall mean undesirable plant growth that is unkempt,
unsightly, deleterious or injurious to the public or as listed as noxious weeds
by the state of Idaho or Washington County. (Ord. 1137, 11-12-2002)
5-3-2: REMOVAL BY CITY; ABATEMENT:
   A.   The mayor, chief of police, fire chief, building inspector, or any
other authorized city official may, ten (10) days after notice to the landowner
or person occupying the premises, cause weeds (or any other nuisance as defined
in section
1-3-2) to be removed, obliterated or cut as often as necessary on lots, lands
or premises where weeds exceed eight inches (8") in height.
   B.   Notice of such order of abatement shall be placed in a conspicuous
location upon the premises, or the nuisance to be abated, or both. Copies of
said notices shall be served upon any adult occupying the premises; provided
however, if no person is occupying the premises or no occupant can be found
after reasonable diligence, posted notice shall suffice.
   C.   If the presence of the weeds offending this code, or the presence of
any other nuisance as provided under this code, are not removed within the time
so fixed by the notice, the mayor, chief of police, fire chief, building
inspector, or any other authorized city official may, abate the offending weeds
or other nuisance. The city shall have the power to employ such labor as is
necessary to abate the nuisance, and to defray the expense(s) of such abatement
the city may levy a special assessment on the real property or premises whereon
the same was maintained in the manner provided under Idaho Code section 50-334.
(Ord. 1137, 11-12-2002; amd. Ord. 1256, 3-9-2021)
5-3-3: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person owning, managing, or occupying any lots, land, or premises
within the city who shall after notice, fail, refuse or neglect to continuously
keep weeded, cut down, destroyed and removed the weeds and grasses as
prescribed in section
5-3-1 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The code
enforcement officer or the mayor's designee shall have authority to issue
citations to violators. Each day for which the offense continues shall be a
separate offense. (Ord. 1137, 11-12-2002; amd. Ord. 1256, 3-9-2021)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Dangerous Fireworks
5-4-3: Safe And Sane Fireworks
5-4-4: Dangerous Fireworks Permit
5-4-5: Safe And Sane Fireworks Permit
5-4-6: Application For Safe And Sane Fireworks Permit
5-4-7: Application For Dangerous Fireworks Permit
5-4-8: Contents Of Application
5-4-9: Investigation
5-4-10: Council Powers
5-4-11: Validity; Term
5-4-12: Liability Insurance Required
5-4-13: Sale Period Restricted
5-4-14: Temporary Fireworks Stands
5-4-15: Sale From Permanent Structure
5-4-16: Records To Be Kept
5-4-17: Bond
5-4-18: Supervision By Fire Chief
5-4-19: Compliance; Violation
5-4-20: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Fireworks" shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes
or toy guns in which explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type
which have burning material of any kind attached thereto or which require fire
underneath to propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, roman
candles, fountain wheels, dago bombs, sparklers and other fireworks of like
construction and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive
substance for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, explosion or detonation.
Exempted from this part are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes and toy
guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in which paper
caps containing not more than twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain of explosive
compound per cap are used and such caps whether single, roll or tape type.
(Ord. 761, 6-1-1967)
5-4-2: DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:
"Dangerous fireworks" include any of the following:
   A.   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of a similar nature;
   B.   Blank cartridges;
   C.   Skyrockets and rockets, including all similar devices employing any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge;
   D.   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire into
the air;
   E.   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel about
the surface of the ground during discharge;
   F.   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury;
   G.   Sparklers more than ten inches (10") in length or one-fourth (1/4) of
an inch in diameter or made with other than iron wires;
   H.   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, salutes,
flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines, dago bombs and similar
devices;
   I.   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction or which contain
arsenic and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls;
   J.   Fire balloons or balloons of any type which have burning material of
any kind attached thereto. (Ord. 761, 6-1-1967)
5-4-3: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
"Safe and sane fireworks" include any of the following:
   A.   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
(50 g) each;
   B.   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle, with pyrotechnic
composition and not exceeding seventy five grams (75 g) each and inside tube
diameter not exceeding three-fourths (3/4) of an inch;
   C.   Sparklers and "dipped sticks" not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-fourth (1/4) of an inch in diameter made of steel or iron wire and
suzuki and morning glories with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four
grams (4 g) each;
   D.   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams (2 g) each;
   E.   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains for
each driver unit or two hundred forty (240) grains for each complete wheel. The
inside tube diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half (1/2) of an inch;
   F.   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams (6
g) and containing no picric or gallic acid. (Ord. 761, 6-1-1967)
5-4-4: DANGEROUS FIREWORKS PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to import, export, offer for
sale, sell, possess, keep or store or permit the keeping or storing of any
dangerous fireworks for any use or purpose, except that a person holding a
dangerous fireworks permit issued pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
chapter may use dangerous fireworks for a safely supervised and conducted
public display of fireworks, and said fireworks may be stored for a period not
exceeding four (4) days immediately preceding the date of said public display;
provided that the fireworks are to be used exclusively for the public display.
(Ord. 761, 6-1-1967)
5-4-5: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS PERMIT:
No person without having a valid safe and sane fireworks permit issued pursuant
to the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter shall import, export,
possess for the purpose of sale, offer for sale or sell any safe and sane
fireworks for any use or purpose. (Ord. 761, 6-1-1967)
5-4-6: APPLICATION FOR SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS PERMIT:
Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or furtherance of any legitimate
personal, business or charitable purpose, desiring to engage in the sale of
safe and sane fireworks within the city shall first make written application to
the clerk for a safe and sane fireworks permit. Each applicant shall pay to the
clerk a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) at the time he files his application. In
the event no safe and sane fireworks permit is issued by the city by June 15 in
the year during which the application is made, the clerk shall refund the
application fee. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
5-4-7: APPLICATION FOR DANGEROUS FIREWORKS PERMIT:
Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or furtherance of any legitimate
personal, business or charitable purpose, desiring to make a public display of
dangerous fireworks shall first make written application to the clerk for a
dangerous fireworks permit. Each applicant shall pay to the clerk a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) at the time he files his application. In the event that
no dangerous fireworks permit is issued by the city within sixty (60) days
after the application is made, the clerk shall refund the application fee.
(Ord. 761, 6-14-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
5-4-8: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous fireworks
permit shall file his application with the clerk or fire chief. Each
application shall show the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   The purpose for which the applicant is primarily existing and for which
it was organized.
   C.   The names and addresses of the officers, trustees and/or directors, if
any, of the applicant.
   D.   The location where the applicant requests permission to sell safe and
sane fireworks or display dangerous fireworks.
   E.   When and where the applicant was organized and established, or, if a
natural person, the applicant's age.
   F.   The location of the applicant's principal and permanent meeting place
or places, or principal place or places of business.
   G.   The applicant's state sales tax permit number.
   H.   If the applicant is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
names and a general description of the business activities of each parent or
subsidiary company, business or entity, and a general description of the
ownership organization of each parent or subsidiary, if any.
   I.   Such other information as the clerk or fire chief may require on a
standard form submitted to all applicants and which is reasonably necessary to
protect the public health, safety and morals. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
5-4-9: INVESTIGATION:
The clerk or fire chief shall cause an investigation to be made of each
application and applicant and shall submit a written report of his findings and
recommendations for or against the issuance of the permit, together with his
reasons therefor, to the council. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
5-4-10: COUNCIL POWERS:
The council shall have the power in its discretion to grant or deny any
application, subject to such reasonable conditions, if any, as it shall
prescribe so long as the denial of the application or any conditions imposed on
the granting of the application are reasonably necessary for protection of the
public health, safety and morals. The council may delegate the power to approve
or disapprove applications. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
5-4-11: VALIDITY; TERM:
A safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous fireworks permit issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only within the calendar year in which
issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific premises or location
designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable conditions necessary
for protection of the public health, safety and morals, an applicant may be
granted permits for more than one site or location within the city. No permit
shall be transferable or assignable. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
5-4-12: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous fireworks
permit shall have filed with the clerk or fire chief prior to the issuance and
validity of any permit, a policy or a certified true copy thereof, of public
liability and products insurance, including both accident and occurrence
coverage. The insurance coverage limits for both public liability coverage and
for products liability coverage shall be at least one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) per person per occurrence bodily injury, three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence aggregate bodily injury, and one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence aggregate property damage. Each
policy of insurance shall be in form and substance acceptable to the city and
shall name as insured parties under the terms of the policy, the city, all
officials of the city in performance of official functions regarding all
operations under or pertaining to said permit, and licensee or licensor of the
applicant, and all vendors of the fireworks covered by the permit to be issued
to the applicant. Said policy of insurance shall be so written that it cannot
be canceled without at least ten (10) days' prior written notice to the city
from the underwriting insurance company. The policy of insurance shall be
underwritten through or by a qualified and duly licensed insurance company or
companies doing or authorized to do insurance business in Idaho. (Ord. 761, 6-
14-1967)
5-4-13: SALE PERIOD RESTRICTED:
No safe and sane fireworks shall be sold or offered for sale except from twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on June 15 to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on July 5 of
each year. (Ord. 1091, 10-12-1999)
5-4-14: TEMPORARY FIREWORKS STANDS:
Temporary fireworks stands from which safe and sane fireworks are to be sold
shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   The stand in which the fireworks will be stored or sold shall not be
located within twenty five feet (25') of any other building nor within one
hundred feet (100') of any gasoline station or flammable liquid dispensing
device or installation.
   B.   All such stands shall meet the structural stability requirements of the
building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other electrical
equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations of the city
1 .
   C.   The stand shall have exit doors at least thirty inches (30") wide at
both ends of the structure and one additional door for each twenty five feet
(25') of rear wall in excess of twenty five feet (25'). All doors shall open
outward from the stand and all doorways shall be kept free and clear from all
supplies and materials at all times.
   D.   Each stand shall be provided with a minimum of two (2) approved fire
extinguishers, in good working order and easily accessible for use in case of
fire, which shall be kept in immediate proximity to the location where the
fireworks are retailed.
   E.   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age or
older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be effectively kept away from
any kind of self-service by the public and shall be placed in a location which
is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the public in capacities other
than as legal customers. No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall be
allowed inside the temporary stand at any time, nor shall any person under
sixteen (16) years of age work at or about any stand where safe and sane
fireworks are sold or offered for sale.
   F.   No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain inside of
any stand when it is not open for business.
   G.   "No smoking" signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside of the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand or within
fifteen feet (15') of the stand. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
   H.   No temporary stand shall be erected before June 12 of any year. The
premises on which the stand is erected shall be cleared of all structures and
debris not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of July 8. (Ord. 761, 6-14-
1967; amd. 1987 Code)
   I.   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within twenty five feet (25') of
any fireworks stand.
   J.   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate in or around any
fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist.
   K.   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-1 of this code.
5-4-15: SALE FROM PERMANENT STRUCTURE:
Permanent business structures from which safe and sane fireworks are to be sold
shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   All such buildings shall meet the structural stability requirements of
the building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other
electrical equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations
of the city 1 .
   B.   The building shall have exit doors at least thirty inches (30") wide at
both ends of the structure and shall otherwise conform to the exit regulations
established by the city building regulations for structures of the size and
nature of said building. All doors shall open outward and all doorways shall be
kept free and clear from all supplies and materials at all times. (Ord. 761, 6-
14-1967)
   C.   Each building shall be provided with such number of fire extinguishers
as the fire chief of the city shall deem adequate, but in all cases the number
shall be not less than two (2). The fire extinguishers shall be extinguishers
approved by the fire chief. The fire extinguishers shall be in good working
order, easily accessible for use in case of fire and kept in immediate
proximity to the location where the fireworks are retailed. (Ord. 761, 6-14-
1967; amd. 1987 Code)
   D.   "No smoking" signs shall be prominently displayed adjacent to the
display area.
   E.   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate, or permit a fire
nuisance to exist in or around the area where fireworks are sold. (Ord. 761, 6-
14-1967)
   F.   If fireworks are stored, they shall only be stored in such places as
are approved for storage of fireworks by the fire chief. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967;
amd. 1987 Code)
   G.   No building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises shall be used for the retail sale of safe and sane fireworks. (Ord.
761, 6-14-1967)
   H.   The fire chief may establish other regulations for permanent structures
where fireworks are to be sold so long as said regulations are reasonably
necessary to protect the public health, safety or morals and apply uniformly to
all applicants. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-1 of this code.
5-4-16: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Each permittee shall be required to retain at the licensed premises while said
premises are open and at his principal place of business for a year thereafter,
copies of all invoices, receipts and orders evidencing the source from which he
acquired the fireworks which he handled. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
5-4-17: BOND:
In those cases where the applicant conducts the sale of fireworks from a
temporary fireworks stand, he shall post with the clerk a cash bond or cash
deposit in the amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) (or such other
security as may be acceptable to the city) conditioned upon the prompt removal
of the temporary fireworks stand and the cleaning up of debris from the site of
the temporary fireworks stand, which deposit or security shall be returned to
the applicant only in the event that he removes said temporary fireworks stand
and cleans up all debris to the satisfaction of the fire chief of the city or
such other officials as the council may designate. In the event of the
applicant's failure to so remove the stand and debris, said cash bond or cash
deposit shall be forfeited to the city. In no event shall the applicant be
entitled to the return of said cash bond or cash deposit if he has failed to
remove said temporary fireworks stand and clean up all debris by twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon of July 8 of any year. It shall be the legal duty of each
permittee to clear such sites and remove all debris therefrom on or before July
8 of the year in which the permit is granted, and failure to do so shall be
punishable by two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) fine and/or sixty (60) days'
confinement in the county jail. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
5-4-18: SUPERVISION BY FIRE CHIEF:
The regulation of all permits granted hereunder shall be under the supervision
and control of the fire chief or as may be designated by the council. The fire
chief shall have the right to inspect and test by samples any and all items or
class of items of fireworks displayed to be sold by a permittee.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter defining safe and sane
fireworks, any and all such safe and sane fireworks being displayed or sold by
permittee shall be subject to the express approval or disapproval by the fire
chief. Upon notification of any permittee by the fire chief that any particular
item or items of fireworks being displayed or sold by a permittee shall be
deemed unsafe in the opinion of the fire chief. Such item or items or class of
item or items shall be forthwith removed from the fireworks display and
returned by the permittee to the wholesaler, jobber or manufacturer of such
item or items or class of fireworks or if not so returned shall be forthwith
destroyed. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967; amd. 1987 Code)
5-4-19: COMPLIANCE; VIOLATION:
It shall be the duty of every person issued a fireworks permit to comply with
all the provisions of the Idaho state fireworks act 1  and this chapter. The
conviction or violation of the aforesaid Idaho state fireworks act or any of
the provisions of this chapter by the permittee or by any of its agents,
employees or officers shall constitute a cause in and of itself to deny any
subsequent application for a permit. (Ord. 761, 6-14-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-2602 et seq.
5-4-20: PENALTY:
Conviction of violations of this chapter shall be punished pursuant to the
provisions set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1987 Code)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Established
6-1-2: Personnel
6-1-3: Police Officers; Powers And Duties
6-1-4: Chief Of Police; Duties
6-1-5: Assistant Police Officers; Duties
6-1-6: Police Training Aid
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There shall be and is hereby established a department of the city to be known
as the Weiser police department and which shall consist of a chief of police
and such policemen as may be appointed from time to time. (Ord. 2, 7-24-1900)
6-1-2: PERSONNEL:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the council, shall appoint a chief of
police and such other police officers as they deem necessary, and said officers
shall hold such positions from the time of entering upon their duties until the
first Monday in May following the time of their several appointments, and until
their successors are appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed by the
mayor with the approval of the council. (Ord. 2, 7-24-1900)
6-1-3: POLICE OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The chief of police and assistants of the city as conservators of the peace
shall have the power to arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without
process, and to take before the proper magistrate all persons who shall break
the peace and may commit such person to jail or other safe place in default of
proper bail being furnished. They or either of them shall have power to arrest
or cause to be arrested as aforesaid all persons who shall be found in the act
of violating any ordinance of the city for the preservation of the peace and
good order thereof and shall have power to detain or cause to be detained any
person in custody in the county jail or other safe place in the city overnight
and during any Sunday or legal holiday, or until such person can be duly
examined and tried by the proper officer, whenever it may be impractical to
bring such person before such officer. (Ord. 2, 7-24-1900)
6-1-4: CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
The chief of police shall be chief of the acting police and all assistant
police officers shall be in subordination to him and subject to his orders,
except in cases otherwise provided by ordinance. It shall be his duty to cause
the public peace to be preserved and see that all laws and ordinances are
enforced within the city limits, and when any violation thereof shall come to
his knowledge or be reported to him, he shall cause the requisite complaint to
be made and see that all possible evidence is procured for the successful
prosecution of offenders. (Ord. 2, 7-24-1900)
6-1-5: ASSISTANT POLICE OFFICERS; DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the assistant police officers to aid and assist the
chief in the execution of his duties herein enjoined, and they and the chief or
either of them shall have power and authority in the city to execute warrants
and other process for the apprehension or commitment of persons charged with or
held for examination or trial, or taken in execution for the commission of any
crime or misdemeanor or violation of any law or ordinance of the city, and
while executing or serving or assisting in the execution or service of any such
warrant or process, shall be vested with and have all powers and authority
conferred at common law and by the laws of the state. (Ord. 2, 7-24-1900)
6-1-6: POLICE TRAINING AID:
The city declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police training
from the Idaho police officers' standards and training council pursuant to
Idaho Code 19-5101 et seq., and while receiving such aid will adhere to the
standards for recruitment and training established by that council. (Ord. 798,
7-9-1970; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CATS AND DOGS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: License Required
6-2-3: Collar; Tag
6-2-4: Licenses; Fees; Lost Tags
6-2-5: Imitation License Tags
6-2-6: Running At Large Prohibited
6-2-7: Kennel Licenses
6-2-8: Rabies
6-2-9: Poundmaster; Enforcement Officer Of Cat And Dog Regulations
6-2-10: Duties Of Poundmaster
6-2-11: Redemption
6-2-12: Tampering With Equipment Prohibited
6-2-13: Adoption Of Unclaimed Cats Or Dogs; Fee (Rep. by Ord. 1200, 3-12-2007)
6-2-14: Dogs Which Disturb Neighborhood
6-2-15: Female Cats And Dogs In Heat To Be Confined
6-2-16: When Lawful To Go On Premises
6-2-17: Unlawful To Harbor Vicious Dogs
6-2-18: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them hereinafter:
DOG: Either male or female dog.
FERAL CAT: Cat not identified by collar, clipped ears, tattoo, or other marking
to indicate ownership.
KENNELS:
Commercial: Property or facility for the express purpose of breeding or
boarding cats or dogs, with a maximum number of ten (10) dogs or ten (10) cats
and not to exceed ten (10) animals in total. Owner shall hold certificate of
registration from the American Kennel Club or the American Cat Fanciers
Association or a like national organization registering purebred or pedigreed
animals.
Noncommercial: A property or residence where there are no more than four (4)
dogs or six (6) cats kept as pets not for commercial breeding or boarding
purposes. Total number of cats and dogs shall not exceed six (6) animals.
OWNER: Any one or more persons, firms, associations or corporations owning,
harboring, keeping or possessing cats or dogs within the corporate limits of
the city. (Ord. 1200, 3-12-2007)
6-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be an infraction for any owner to own, harbor, keep or possess a dog
within the city without first procuring a license therefor, as provided by this
chapter; provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to any owner visiting in the city for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days,
and owning, harboring, keeping or possessing a dog currently licensed and
bearing the license issued by another municipality or their licensing
authority. (Ord. 1209, 5-11-2009)
6-2-3: COLLAR; TAG:
Every dog shall at all times wear a substantial and durable collar to which
shall be securely attached the required license tag. Every cat shall be
identified by a collar, clipped ear, tattoo, or other visible marking to
distinguish pets from feral cats. (Ord. 1190, 5-8-2006)
6-2-4: LICENSES; FEES; LOST TAGS:
   A.   Licenses; Fees: The clerk is authorized to issue a dog license and tag
to any person applying therefor upon payment of a license fee and compliance
with all conditions as established by resolution of the Weiser city council.
   B.   Exceptions: Any dog born subsequent to the due date for the license
shall be licensed by the payment of the appropriate fee within four (4) months
after its birth, and any dog brought into the city subsequent to the license
fee due date shall be licensed by the payment of the appropriate license fee
immediately after being brought into the city.
   C.   Term: All licenses and tags issued under this chapter shall be
nontransferable and shall expire on December 31 of the year issued.
   D.   Lost Tag: The city clerk shall issue a duplicate or replacement tag
upon payment of one dollar ($1.00) and upon presentation of the dog license to
replace the original tag which has been lost or destroyed. (Ord. 1192, 9-11-
2006)
6-2-5: IMITATION LICENSE TAGS:
It shall be an infraction for any person or owner to allow any dog owned, kept,
harbored or possessed by him to wear a license tag received on account of a
former year, or any tag marked on a plate or collar similar to that required by
the city at that time and calculated to deceive, and it shall be an infraction
for any person or owner to put on a female dog a tag received with a license
issued for a male dog, or to allow any female dog owned by him or within his
care or custody to wear a tag issued with a license for a male dog. (Ord. 1209,
5-11-2009)
6-2-6: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be an infraction for any person charged with control or the owner of
any dog or cat to permit, or by neglect, allow the animal to be on any public
or private property of another within the city where the owner or person
charged with control of the animal has been previously warned against allowing
an animal to run at large and where the animal is not controlled by a leash not
exceeding ten feet (10') in length nor confined in a motor vehicle.
Notice or warning of an animal running at large is complete upon personal
service to the owner or person in charge or by mailing the notice and warning
by U.S. mail to the last known address of the owner or person charged with
control of the animal or animals. (Ord. 1233, 3-11-2013)
6-2-7: KENNEL LICENSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or possess upon the
premises of any one household more than four (4) dogs or six (6) cats unless
the owner or person in charge thereof shall have obtained a noncommercial
kennel license, the fee and standards for which shall be established by
resolution of the Weiser city council.
   B.   For every commercial kennel maintained for dogs or cats registered
under the rules and regulations of the American Kennel Club or American Cat
Fanciers Association or like organizations registering purebred or pedigree
animals, and satisfying the city kennel standards, the owner shall pay an
annual kennel license fee in lieu of a license fee for each animal up to a
maximum of ten (10) dogs or ten (10) cats. (Ord. 1200, 3-12-2007)
6-2-8: RABIES:
The poundmaster shall have authority to order the owner of any animal showing
symptoms of rabies, or of any animal which has bitten any person or persons so
as to cause an abrasion of the skin, to subject such animal to the city pound
for quarantine for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days, and if such animal
shall be determined free of rabies, the same shall be returned to the owner
upon payment of one-half (1/2) of the regular fee for keeping dogs impounded.
No other fee shall be charged. If such fee is not paid, the animal shall be
subject to disposal as provided in section
6-2-10 of this chapter. Provided, however, that in lieu of submitting such
animal to the city pound, the owner may, at his expense, admit such animal to a
veterinarian for examination.
Any animal afflicted with rabies shall be disposed of immediately, either by
the owner or the poundmaster. (Ord. 1190, 5-8-2006)
6-2-9: POUNDMASTER; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER OF CAT AND DOG REGULATIONS:
The enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the police
department, and the chief of police shall designate a poundmaster and give him
the authority of a police officer. The poundmaster shall be responsible to the
chief of police for the enforcement of all cat and dog regulations, and also
for the enforcement of the provisions of sections
6-3-1 through
6-3-11 of this title and shall be the poundmaster referred to in section
6-3-2 of this title and therefore for the taking into custody of all other
estray animals. Subject to the provisions of subsection 6-2-10E of this
chapter, he shall operate the dog and estray pound or pounds, and all pound
fees collected by him shall be turned over to the clerk when collected. It
shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or molest the poundmaster or any
person authorized and acting through him, or any member of the police
department who may be lawfully engaged in seizing, killing or otherwise
disposing of any cat or dog within the limits of the city.
The chief of police may perform the duties of poundmaster or may designate any
police officer as poundmaster. (Ord. 1190, 5-8-2006)
6-2-10: DUTIES OF POUNDMASTER:
The poundmaster shall have and perform the following duties:
   A.   Take up, impound and safely keep any feral cat or dog found running at
large or tied in any street, lane, alley, court, square, park or other place
belonging to the city or upon the premises of any person other than the owner
of the animal. Cats identified by marking distinguishing them from feral cats
shall be released at capture site.
   B.   Take up immediately any cat or dog which the poundmaster has reason to
believe may be infected with rabies in accordance with section
6-2-8 of this chapter.
   C.   Take up and impound any feral cat or dog not on the premises of his
owner or not under the control of the owner or other competent person.
   D.   Make a complete registry of impounded cats and dogs, identifying the
breed, color and sex of such animal and if licensed, the number of the license
and the name and address of the owner, the date and manner of disposal, the
name and address of the person redeeming or purchasing and the fees and charges
and proceeds of sale received on account thereof.
   E.   Maintain and care for the public pound and furnish adequate food and
drink and sanitary surroundings for all cats and dogs impounded unless the city
has contracted with some other person or entity to furnish and operate same; in
which event he shall see that such privately operated pound is operated in
accordance with the terms of this chapter. All impounded cats and dogs
apparently in healthy condition shall not be in active contact with sick and
diseased animals nor impounded females in season in contact with males. Humane
treatment shall be exercised at all times.
   F.   Notify the owner of any cat or dog impounded, stating that such animal
is confined at the pound and specify the amount necessary to reclaim or redeem
the same, as provided herein, and the period which such animal will be held
before disposing of the same.
If the name of the owner is not known, the foregoing notice may be dispensed
with, in which case the animal may be disposed of by the poundmaster after the
same has been impounded for seven (7) days. No disposition shall be made to
other than the owner until the lapse of seven (7) days following notification.
   G.   Humanely destroy any cat or dog which has been impounded for seven (7)
days or more after being picked up and impounded by the poundmaster. Notice
will be put in the local paper that said animal has been impounded and it will
be destroyed if not claimed by the lawful owner. (Ord. 1209, 5-11-2009)
6-2-11: REDEMPTION:
The owner of any impounded cat or dog shall have the right to reclaim the same
at any time prior to the lawful disposition thereof upon payment to the
poundmaster of the cost, fees and charges provided for in this chapter. The
poundmaster can release the said cat or dog if not claimed by the legal owner
to another party after the seven (7) day period, provided the party wanting to
claim said animal shall pay the redemption fee and acquire a license for such
animal if it does not have one and cause such animal to be spayed or neutered
within seven (7) days and provide proof to the poundmaster. (Ord. 1209, 5-11-
2009)
Fees for redemption of animals shall be established by resolution. (Ord. 1200,
3-12-2007)
6-2-12: TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be an infraction for any person, without proper authority, to
turn out or released, or cause to be turned out or release, or aid or abet the
turning out or releasing of any animal from any impoundment, vehicle, trap or
facility of the city of Weiser.
   B.   It shall be an infraction to remove, damage or otherwise tamper with
any traps, equipment or impoundment facility belonging to the city of Weiser.
(Ord. 1212, 7-13-2009)
6-2-13: ADOPTION OF UNCLAIMED CATS OR DOGS; FEE:
(Rep. by Ord. 1200, 3-12-2007)
6-2-14: DOGS WHICH DISTURB NEIGHBORHOOD:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
allow or permit said dog or dogs to become a nuisance by disturbing the peace
and comfort of any reasonable person or to interfere with the reasonable and
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by any of the following:
   A.   Excessive, continuous, or untimely barking or noise.
   B.   Excessive accumulations of animal feces, which would be offensive to a
reasonable person by sight or small, or which creates an insect breeding or
attraction site.
This section shall not apply to the municipal dog pound or veterinary
hospitals. (Ord. 1190, 5-8-2006; amd. Ord. 1263, 10-11-2022)
6-2-15: FEMALE CATS AND DOGS IN HEAT TO BE CONFINED:
The owner of a female cat or dog, shall cause such animal when in season, to be
penned or enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other males from attracting
such female or being attracted to such female so as to create a public
nuisance. (Ord. 1192, 9-11-2006)
6-2-16: WHEN LAWFUL TO GO ON PREMISES:
In the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, any police officer or
public officer is authorized to enter the premises of any person to take
possession of a licensed or unlicensed dog, when said dogs are running at
large, vicious, fierce or dangerous to other people, or when in fresh pursuit
of such dog, at the time the dog goes onto private property.
It is unlawful for any person keeping or harboring a dog for which a license is
required by this chapter to fail or refuse to exhibit the license or tag upon
demand by the police officer or other designated city official. (Ord. 1190, 5-
8-2006)
6-2-17: UNLAWFUL TO HARBOR VICIOUS DOGS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor on any premises any vicious, fierce or dangerous
dog that may, in the event that it becomes loose, attack, bite or maul any
person who is legally on said premises at the time of said attack or which may
attack, bite or maul any person not on the owner's premises.
Should the court determine that a vicious dog cannot be safely contained, or
whose owner fails to keep the animal adequately contained, the court may, in
addition to any other penalty under this chapter, order the animal destroyed.
(Ord. 1192, 9-11-2006)
6-2-18: PENALTY:
Any violation of sections
6-2-2 through
6-2-16 of this chapter or failure to comply with the requirements of any
thereof, shall constitute an infraction punishable by a fine of seventy five
dollars ($75.00). Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate infraction. (Ord. 1209, 5-11-2009)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS; FOWL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Animals At Large
6-3-2: Notice Of Impoundment
6-3-3: Sale Or Other Disposition Of Impounded Animals
6-3-4: Care Of Impounded Animals
6-3-5: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
6-3-6: Redemption Fees
6-3-7: Animals Destroyed
6-3-8: Police To Report On Impounding
6-3-9: Fowl Running At Large
6-3-10: Swine Prohibited
6-3-11: Penalty
6-3-12: Slaughter Prohibited
6-3-1: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any cattle, horse, mule,
hog, goat or sheep or other livestock to run at large, or be herded, tethered
or picketed in any of the streets, alleys or public grounds within the
corporate limits of the city.
Provided, however, that it shall be lawful to herd or drive stock upon
designated stock routes after the owners of the animals to be herded or trailed
shall first register with the chief of police of the city twenty four (24)
hours prior to bringing animals into the city. City police shall provide escort
through the city.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owner of any animals trailed or herded upon
the designated stock routes to provide sufficient herders to confine the stock
to established routes and to protect the property adjacent to the stock routes
from damage by the stock.
   C.   The chief of police shall conspicuously mark and sign the stock routes
within the city which are designated as follows:
      1.   From west city limits at Indianhead Road and West 9th Street south
on West 9th Street to Indianhead Road, thence east on Indianhead Route to U.S.
Highway 95 and Washington County Road 80C, also known as Chicken Hill Road.
From Washington County Road 80C and East 9th Street to East Park Street, thence
east on East Park to the city limits, and also from East Park and East 12th
Street south on East 12th Street to East Main Street, thence east on East Main
Street to the city limits.
      2.   From west city limit at Indianhead and West 9th Street south to West
Idaho Street, thence east on West Idaho to U.S. Highway 95 Spur, thence south
to the Snake River Bridge. (Ord. 910, 4-13-1981)
6-3-2: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
The police or poundmaster are hereby empowered to seize or impound any animal
as described in section
6-3-1 of this chapter, and in that event, he shall notify by mail the owner of
such impounded animal stating where such animal is confined and also the amount
necessary to claim or redeem the same as provided herein and the period that
such animal will be held before disposing of the same. Such notice shall be
sent by registered mail to the owner of the animal at his present address if
known. If the address of the owner is not known, it shall be addressed to the
owner in care of general delivery, Weiser, Idaho. If the name of the owner is
not known, the foregoing notice may be dispensed with, in which case the animal
shall be disposed of as herein provided. No disposition shall be made to other
than the owner until the lapse of five (5) days following the impounding of
such animal. (Ord. 861, 10-11-1976)
6-3-3: SALE OR OTHER DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
Any animal seized or impounded under this chapter may be redeemed by the owner
within five (5) days upon paying the legal charges and expenses specified in
section
6-3-6 of this chapter. If not redeemed, it shall be offered at sale at public
auction to the highest bidder within two (2) days after publication in the
official newspaper of the city of the place and date of such sale and a
reasonable description or descriptions of the animal or animals to be sold. All
monies received by the city from the sale of such animals shall be paid over to
the city clerk. (Ord. 861, 10-11-1976)
6-3-4: CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
Any animal seized and impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
provided with proper care, food and water while so confined. (Ord. 315, 11-8-
1923)
6-3-5: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
If at any time prior to such sale the owner of any animal so seized and
impounded shall claim the same, he shall be entitled to the possession thereof
upon payment to the city of such sum as is hereinafter provided and all legal
charges and expenses incident to such taking up and keeping. Such funds shall
be paid over to the clerk. (Ord. 315, 11-8-1923)
6-3-6: REDEMPTION FEES:
The following fees for seizing, impounding, keeping and selling any animal
under the provisions hereof shall be collected: for taking up and impounding
any animal, per head, five dollars ($5.00); for publishing notice of sale, the
actual costs of such publication as prescribed in section
6-3-3 of this chapter; for sale, ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 861, 10-11-1976)
6-3-7: ANIMALS DESTROYED:
The poundmaster shall destroy any animal which has been impounded and not
redeemed or sold or has not been placed with some person who will provide
suitable care for such animal within the time and manner specified in section
6-3-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 861, 10-11-1976)
6-3-8: POLICE TO REPORT ON IMPOUNDING:
The chief of police shall report to the council monthly a full statement of all
stock impounded under the provisions of this chapter, giving the description of
all animals so impounded, the date when seized, the date of sale, the amount
received from fines or the amount received for the sale of such animal, the
amount paid to the clerk and the owner, if known. He shall receive a receipt in
duplicate from the clerk for all moneys paid and shall file the duplicate with
his report. (Ord. 315, 11-8-1923)
6-3-9: FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any chickens, geese, ducks or other fowl to be
permitted to be or to run at large in the city, and any person suffering or
permitting such fowl belonging to him to so run at large or to be at large or
outside of his premises shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 120, 5-
9-1906; amd. Ord. 518, 1-11-1946)
6-3-10: SWINE PROHIBITED:
Hereafter, any person who shall keep within the corporate limits of the city
any swine shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 279, 3-7-1918; amd. Ord. 519,
1-11-1946)
6-3-11: PENALTY:
Any violation of section
6-3-1 of this chapter or failure to comply with its requirements shall
constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to three hundred dollars
($300.00) or up to six (6) months in the county jail or both. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 861, 10-11-
1976)
6-3-12: SLAUGHTER PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to kill and butcher animals within the city except at a
commercial slaughter house, stockyard, veterinary clinic or in the vehicle of a
commercial mobile butcher. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(Ord. 1014, 10-12-1993)
CHAPTER 4
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; ABANDONED, WRECKED, JUNKED
AND STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Improperly Parked Vehicles
6-4-3: Unidentified, Stolen, Wrecked Or Abandoned Motor Vehicles
6-4-4: Removal From Private Property
6-4-5: Enforcement Of Lien And Sale Of Motor Vehicles
6-4-6: Sale Of Other Unclaimed Personal Property
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: An automobile or personal
property which remains upon the street or other public property for a period of
time longer than forty eight (48) hours, the owner of which cannot be located
or the owner refuses to remove the same.
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE: An unsightly, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative motor
vehicle or part of parts therefrom, which meets one of the following
qualifications:
   A.   It does not carry a current, valid state registration and license
plates.
   B.   It cannot be safely operated under its own power.
   C.   It is not in a garage or other building.
   D.   It does not have any one of the following:
      Foot brakes
      Hand brakes
      Headlights
      Taillights
      Horn
      Muffler
      Rearview mirrors
      Windshield wipers
      Adequate fenders
OTHER UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY: Other personal property where ownership
thereof cannot be ascertained or the owner falls to claim within sixty (60)
days.
PROPERTY: Any real property or personal property as herein defined, within the
city which is not a street or highway.
STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: That personal property which
the police department has reasonable grounds to believe to be stolen.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, airplane, truck, trailer, motorcycle, motor scooter,
tractor, buggy and wagon. The term "vehicle" shall not include a licensed
antique vehicle so licensed as such under the laws of the state. (Ord. 875, 6-
5-1978; amd. 1987 Code)
6-4-2: IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic regulations or any vehicle parked so
as to obstruct the free movement of traffic or causing a traffic hazard may be
removed upon order of the police department. Any such vehicle removed by the
police department shall be kept under the control of the police department
until the owner or authorized agent pays a reasonable cost for removal and
storage in addition to the penalty provided for such improper parking. Any such
vehicle shall be deemed to be improperly parked after a period of ten (10)
minutes (unless said vehicle is parked in a regularly marked parking area) or
in violation of traffic regulations when it shall be deemed improperly parked
after a period of one hour. If said vehicle is redeemed within five (5) days,
the cost of redemption shall include the actual cost and expense of said
removal in addition to a storage charge of fifty cents ($0.50) per day, and
said costs and expenses shall be a lien on such vehicle in favor of the
municipality. (Ord. 875, 6-5-1978)
6-4-3: UNIDENTIFIED, STOLEN, WRECKED OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   The police department is hereby authorized in addition to any penalty
that may be provided therefor, to remove an unidentified, stolen, wrecked or
abandoned motor vehicle or other personal property as herein defined, found
upon any public thoroughfare or other property of the municipality and shall
keep the same in its custody and control at such place as may be designated by
said police department until redeemed by the owner; and all such unidentified,
stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles or other personal property which is
now in the possession of the police department shall be subject to the actual
cost of removal or towing from the public place and a storage fee of five
dollars ($5.00) per day as long as the same is in possession and custody of the
city. It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a motor
vehicle or other property to leave or abandon the same upon the streets or
public places.
   B.   The accumulation and storage of wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property is hereby found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote
blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to
constitute an unattractive nuisance creating a hazard to health and safety to
minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be injurious to
the health, safety and general welfare. Therefor, the presence of a wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts thereof on private or public
property, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any persons to maintain a junk motor vehicle,
vehicles or parts thereof on residential property or business property exposed
to the public view for a period of more than thirty (30) days.
   D.   This chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
      2.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   E.   Any member of the police department or building department may order
any junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof removed within thirty (30)
days.
   F.   Notice of such order shall be placed upon said junk motor vehicle,
vehicles or parts thereof. Copies of said notice shall be served upon any adult
occupying the real estate on which the junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts
thereof are located and upon the owner of the junk, if known. If no occupant of
the real estate or owner of the junk vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof can be
found, a notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall constitute
notice to the owner or occupant of the real estate thereof. If there is no
building on the real estate, said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real
estate.
   G.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fall or refuse
to remove an unidentified, stolen, wrecked, abandoned or junk motor vehicle,
vehicles or parts thereof, or other personal property herein referred to, or
refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   H.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow any authorized city officer or employee to enter upon private
or public property to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   If said junk vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof are not removed within
the time herein fixed, the police department or building department may cause
said junk vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof to be removed and the actual costs
of removal or towing charge and a storage fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day
for so long as the same is in possession and custody of the city shall be
charged to the owner. In the event said junk vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof
are not claimed by the lawful owner, then and in that event, the same shall be
sold according to law, after thirty (30) days' notice period above provided
for. (Ord. 992, 10-15-1990)
6-4-4: REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
If at any time, a vehicle is parked upon private property without the consent
of the owner of such property, the police department is hereby authorized to
remove said vehicle therefrom and to cause the same to be stored; provided the
owner of such property has first signed a complaint against the owner or
operator of said vehicle. The municipality shall have a lien for all necessary
costs of removing and storing such vehicle and said vehicle may be held by the
municipality until such lien is paid. (Ord. 875, 6-5-1978)
6-4-5: ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN AND SALE OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
All motor vehicles impounded or heretofore impounded by the police department
and unredeemed by the owner shall be subject to sale after notice and pursuant
to Idaho Code 49-3613 et seq. (Ord. 875, 6-5-1978; amd. 1987 Code)
6-4-6: SALE OF OTHER UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Firearms: Firearms found, confiscated, or otherwise delivered to the
custody of the police department shall be kept for sixty (60) days. The owner
shall present proof of ownership to the chief of police to claim the firearms.
All firearms not claimed within sixty (60) days shall be sold to a licensed
firearm dealer. Proceeds shall be paid to the general fund of the city.
   B.   Other Unclaimed Property: All other unclaimed personal property shall
be kept in custody of the city of Weiser for a period of sixty (60) days.
Property may be claimed by presentation of proof of ownership to the chief of
police prior to sale.
   C.   Sale Procedure: The city clerk shall cause notice of sale of unclaimed
personal property to be published once a week for two (2) weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation. After fifteen (15) days from the first publication, the
city shall sell at public auction to the highest cash bidder all other
unclaimed personal property. Proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the general
fund of the city. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew Established
6-5-2: Failure To Supervise A Child
6-5-1: CURFEW ESTABLISHED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any minor to go or to remain upon any pedestrian or
vehicular thoroughfare, public place or other premises open to the public, or
to operate or to ride in a vehicle at any such location, between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 991, 10-15-1990)
   B.   This prohibition shall not apply to the following:
      1.   A minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having care and custody of said minor;
      2.   Minor upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed or
authorized by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of said minor;
      3.   A minor participating in a lawful youth group activity of which the
chief of police has been notified; or
      4.   A minor who is lawfully married or who is a member of the armed
forces of the United States on active duty or on authorized leave from active
duty. (1987 Code)
   C.   Any minor child found violating this provision shall be returned to his
home or custodian if within the city of Weiser or the parents or custodian of
the child shall be required to take custody of the child from the police
officer. (Ord. 1060, 9-8-1997)
6-5-2: FAILURE TO SUPERVISE A CHILD:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is the parent, lawful guardian
or other person lawfully charged with the care or custody of a child under
sixteen (16) years of age to fail to supervise the child if:
      1.   The parent or custodian fails to take custody of the child found
violating the curfew ordinance of the city of Weiser upon request of a law
enforcement officer;
      2.   If the child violated the curfew ordinance of the city of Weiser for
a second or successive time.
   B.   The parent or custodian shall not be subject to prosecution if that
person reports the curfew violation to law enforcement and takes custody of the
child upon his apprehension or, if the parent shows to the satisfaction of the
court that he took reasonable steps to control the child's conduct at the time
of the curfew violation.
   C.   Any person found guilty or who pleads guilty to the offense of failure
to supervise a child for the first offense shall be fined not more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00). The second or subsequent conviction shall result in
a fine not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 1060, 9-8-1997)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Code Adopted
6-6-2: Issuance Of Citations
6-6-3: Weapons
6-6-4: Alcoholic Beverages In Public Prohibited
6-6-5: Disorderly Conduct
6-6-6: Yard Sales Limited
6-6-1: CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50-901 of the Idaho Code, there is hereby
adopted title 18 of said Idaho Code, being the criminal laws of the state,
establishing principles of liability for conduct; establishing general
principles of justification for conduct; defining offenses involving danger to
persons; defining offenses against property; defining offenses against the
family; defining offenses against public administration; defining offenses
against public order and decency; establishing a uniform system of penalties,
including fines, forfeitures and imprisonment; and, establishing criteria for
imposing sentences upon those convicted of an offense; and said laws shall be
and the same are hereby adopted as the criminal code of the city.
Three (3) copies of said laws shall be on file in the office of the clerk for
reference to and inspection by the general public. (1971 Code)
6-6-2: ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS:
Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter or the laws hereinabove
adopted, the arresting officer shall execute the citation in the following
manner:
Violation of the Weiser City Code, Section
6-6-1 (being in particular section 18-         , of the Idaho Code).
(1971 Code)
6-6-3: WEAPONS:
   A.   Display Of Weapons: It shall be unlawful to display any weapon in a
threatening manner or to display any weapon in a manner designed to induce a
person to commit an act against his or her will.
   B.   Discharge Of Weapons: It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or
fire a gun, BB gun or any toy gun projecting lead or any missiles excepting in
a regularly established shooting gallery.
   C.   Exceptions: Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit any
officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty
nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his
person or property.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions herein contained
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalties provided
therefor. (Ord. 826, 5-10-1973; amd. 1987 Code)
6-6-4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED:
   A.   Purpose: The necessity for the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter
contained and enacted is declared as a matter of legislative determination to
be in the public interest, and it is further declared that the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained are enacted in pursuance of and for the
purpose of securing and promoting public health, convenience, safety and
welfare and the peace and quiet of the city and its inhabitants.
   B.   Definitions:
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Any beverage with an alcoholic content in excess of
three percent (3%), and which said beverage shall be in either bottle, metal or
synthetic containers of any kind.
     PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any of the roadways, intersections or other property
belonging to the city, exclusive of parks, which said property is within the
corporate limits of the city.
   C.   Use Of Alcoholic Beverages In Public Places Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to consume or carry in open containers, any
alcoholic beverage upon the public property hereinabove described within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 828, 6-14-1973)
6-6-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Any person committing any of the following acts shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor:
   A.   Any person who maliciously or wilfully disturbs the peace or quiet of
any neighborhood, family, or person by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous
or offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight or fighting, or fires any gun or pistol, or uses any vulgar, profane or
indecent language in the presence or hearing of children, in a loud and
boisterous manner; or
   B.   Any person who maliciously and wilfully disturbs the dignity or
reverential nature of any funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, burial
ceremony or viewing of a deceased person; or
   C.   Any person who accosts another person or intimidates another person
into giving money or goods or who obstructs pedestrian or vehicular traffic in
a public place or way; or
   D.   Any person who loiters or is present upon the private property of
another person without permission or upon school property without the school
district's consent and having no relationship involving custody or
responsibility for a student; or
   E.   Any person who hosts a party or sponsors a party on his or her property
or the property of another which disrupts the public peace and safety due to
the magnitude of the crowd, loud music or other noise, or due to unruly
behavior of the attendees, excessive traffic or destruction of property; or
where persons under twenty one (21) years of age are consuming alcohol and the
host reasonably should have known the person consuming alcohol was under the
age of twenty one (21). (Ord. 1216, 1-11-2010)
6-6-6: YARD SALES LIMITED:
Yard sales, garage sales, or sales of new and used goods not on commercial
premises is hereby limited. The owner or occupant of any residential property
shall be limited to three (3) yard sales per year, January through December. No
one yard sale may extend for more than seventy two (72) hours and all goods
must be cleared from public view seventy two (72) hours from the opening of the
yard sale. Yard sales in excess of these limitations are prohibited. (Ord.
1032, 1-9-1995)
CHAPTER 7
EXCESSIVE NOISE
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Noise Prohibitions
6-7-3: Definitions
6-7-4: Enforcement
6-7-5: Exemptions
6-7-6: Penalty
6-7-7: Penalty For Failing To Pay Traffic Infraction; Suspension Of License
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is the protection of the health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the city. It is determined that sound does constitute a
hazard to the quality of life of the residents of this community. Reasonable
limitations upon the production of sound and regulation of that sound is in the
public interest.
Now, therefore, it is hereinafter the policy of the city to regulate sound
generated by loud amplification and other mechanical devices within motor
vehicles. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-1998)
6-7-2: NOISE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation
of any loud amplification device upon or within a motor vehicle in such a
manner that the sound therefrom is plainly audible upon a public right of way
or street at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the source of such
sound.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate compression brakes
within the city. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-1998)
6-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle belonging to a fire department, fire
district, ambulance, federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement
agency.
LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE: Any equipment designed for use for sound production,
reproduction, or amplification, including, but not limited to, any radio,
television, stereo, tape player, disk player, loud speaker, public address
system, or comparable sound broadcasting device.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Motor vehicle includes every vehicle which is self-propelled
except vehicles moved solely by human power. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-1998)
6-7-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Any Weiser city police officer may issue a uniform citation charging violation
of this chapter. A citizen may also charge a violation of this chapter by
signing a citation in the presence of a Weiser city police officer or any other
officer empowered to enforce violations of this code. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-1998)
6-7-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following are exempt from provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle or personnel when responding to
an emergency.
   B.   Sounds caused by activities upon any outdoor municipal, school,
religious or publicly owned property or facility, provided that such activity
has been authorized by the owner of the facility.
   C.   Sounds caused by parades or other events for which the city has issued
a permit. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-1998)
6-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the terms of this provision shall be guilty of an
infraction and shall be punished by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) excluding
court costs and fees. There is no right to a trial by jury for an infraction
violation, and such trial shall be held before the court. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-
1998)
6-7-7: PENALTY FOR FAILING TO PAY TRAFFIC INFRACTION; SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If a defendant fails to pay a traffic infraction penalty within the time
allowed by a notice of default judgment, or within the time allowed by a
deferred payment agreement, or within such further time as allowed by the
court, then unless the court makes a finding that the defendant has shown
complete and continuing financial inability to pay the penalty, the court shall
sign a notice of nonpayment of penalty and send it to the Idaho department of
transportation for suspension of defendant's driver's license as provided by
law. (Ord. 1066, 2-10-1998)
CHAPTER 8
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
6-8-1: Graffiti Prohibited
6-8-2: Graffiti Removal Required
6-8-3: Graffiti Notice To Remove
6-8-4: City Abatement Option
6-8-5: Penalty
6-8-1: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be unlawful for any person to
place or put, by any means, any drawing, inscription, figure, symbol, or mark
of any type commonly known as graffiti on any public or private property
without the permission of the owner of the premises on which the surface is
located, or upon any natural surfaces such as rocks or trees, or any other
surface whatsoever. (Ord. 1214, 12-14-2009)
6-8-2: GRAFFITI REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Any person found to be in violation of section
6-8-1 of this chapter shall be required to remove or cause to be removed the
graffiti from the surface on which it was placed. Inasmuch as it is often not
possible to determine the identity of the person who applied the graffiti, it
shall be the duty of the owner or person in control of the premises on which
the graffiti has be applied to promptly remove the graffiti after notice as
hereinafter set forth. Assistance in removing graffiti can be obtained through
the Weiser police citizens patrol after school program kids or other local
civic groups. If after notice as hereinafter provided, the graffiti nuisance is
not abated, the city shall proceed to abate the graffiti nuisance and the costs
of same may be assessed against the property. (Ord. 1214, 12-14-2009)
6-8-3: GRAFFITI NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Whenever the chief of police or his designated representative discovers
graffiti on any public or private property or any surfaces visible to persons
utilizing public rights of way within the city, he shall, whenever seasonal
temperatures permit the painting of exterior surfaces, cause a notice to be
issued to the owner or person in control of the premises to abate the nuisance
and remove the graffiti or cover it with paint or other suitable substance.
   B.   Said notice shall be served upon the owner(s) of the affected premises,
as shown on the last property tax assessment rolls of Washington County, Idaho,
with a copy to the occupant of the premises. If there is no known address for
the owner, the notice shall be served at the property address. Service of the
notice may be accomplished through personal service on the owner, occupant, or
person in charge or control of the property or by certified mail.
   C.   Notice shall be in writing and shall clearly state that the owner or
person in charge or control of the property is required by this chapter to
remove from public view or paint over the graffiti within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of the notice. Failure to so abate will cause the city to abate the
nuisance and may cause the city to assess the costs to the owner. Failure to
pay said costs within thirty (30) days of billing may result in an assessment
against the property, collectable with the property taxes, or city utility
bill. The owner or person served may, within ten (10) days of receipt of the
notice, deliver in writing to the chief of police his objections to the removal
required and request a hearing before the city council. (Ord. 1214, 12-14-2009)
6-8-4: CITY ABATEMENT OPTION:
Nuisances which remain unabated after notice in the same manner as provided in
section
5-3-2, may, at the option of the city, be removed, abated or destroyed by the
city or its agent, in the same manner as provided in section
5-3-2. (Ord. 1214, 12-14-2009; amd. Ord. 1256, 3-9-2021)
6-8-5: PENALTY:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as
prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1214, 12-14-2009)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 50-901 of the Idaho Code, the city does
hereby adopt by reference all statute provision regarding health and sanitation
and all rules and regulations of the state department of health for the conduct
of restaurants and eating and drinking establishments in the city, for the
procedure in handling contagious diseases and for all rules and regulations for
the protection and general health and sanitation for the inhabitants of the
city. Three (3) copies of said rules and regulations shall be on file in the
office of the city clerk at all times for reference and inspection by the
public. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Short Title
7-2-2: Garbage And Refuse Collection
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Collection From Entire City
7-2-5: Municipal Garbage And Refuse Collection And Disposal Service Compulsory,
Exemption
7-2-6: Building Inspector To Publish Regulations
7-2-7: Garbage, Trash And Other Refuse From Private Property
7-2-8: Containers
7-2-9: Storing Of Refuse
7-2-10: Construction Debris And Industrial Waste
7-2-11: Burning Prohibited
7-2-12: Penalties
7-2-13: Fees For Sanitary Service Within The City
7-2-14: Interference With Building Inspector
7-2-15: Abatement
7-2-16: Appeals
7-2-17: Compliance With Air Pollution Control Act (Now Idaho Environmental
Protection And Health Act)
7-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MUNICIPAL REFUSE COLLECTION
SERVICE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WEISER, IDAHO. (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979)
7-2-2: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION:
The municipal refuse collection and disposal service of the city shall, by such
means as the city council deems appropriate, collect and dispose of all
garbage, rubbish, refuse, paper, glass, tin cans, ashes or other debris and
shall operate this service and the regulations provided by this chapter shall
be and remain applicable thereto until duly amended as provided by law. All
garbage and refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the city or its duly authorized contractor. (Ord. 889, 11-12-
1979)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, the
words used in the present tense include, the future, words in the plural number
include singular number and words in the singular number include the plural.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
CITY: The city of Weiser, Idaho.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Waste product of any agricultural, chemical, or industrial
process including bulk food or feed processing or cleaning.
INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the city.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PREMISES: Land and all buildings and structures therein, including, but not
limited to, by enumeration, single- or multi- family dwellings, rooming houses,
apartment houses, hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, hotels, motels,
restaurants, drive-in establishments, schools and any other place of
habitation, office, shop or establishment or place of conducting a business,
trade or occupation.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible waste (except body waste) including
garbage, rubbish, ashes and street cleanings.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippage, wood,
glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
SANITARY CONTAINERS: Ninety (90) gallon or three hundred (300) gallon plastic
containers as shall be provided by the city or such other container as shall be
approved by the city council.
USER: A person as herein defined in possession, charge, custody and control of
any premises where garbage, refuse and rubbish is collected or accumulated.
(Ord. 889, 11-12-1979; amd. Ord. 1050, 1-13-1997)
7-2-4: COLLECTION FROM ENTIRE CITY:
All garbage, refuse and rubbish from the entire residential, commercial and
industrial sections properly placed for collection as provided for in this
chapter shall be collected by the city to maintain and preserve sanitation of
the community. Temporary failure to make such collection due to circumstances
beyond the control of the city shall not relieve the occupant or the owner of
the premises from payment of sanitary service fees herein prescribed. (Ord.
889, 11-12-1979)
7-2-5: MUNICIPAL GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE COMPULSORY,
EXCEPTION:
No person shall be permitted to refuse to accept the refuse collection and
disposal service herein provided for, and the failure of any person to receive
such service shall not exempt such person from the payment of charges herein
specified, save and except any of those persons residing in areas in which no
collection service is provided for the entire areas where no service is
rendered by the city or its contractor, no charge will be made. Boundaries
within the city excepted from such charges will be established by the building
inspector with the consent and approval of the city council. (Ord. 889, 11-12-
1979)
7-2-6: BUILDING INSPECTOR TO PUBLISH REGULATIONS:
The building inspector is hereby empowered to prepare and publish such rules
and regulations as may be necessary in connection with the municipal refuse
collection and garbage collection and disposal service subject to the approval
of the city council and may direct that the city garbage and waste disposal
crew will not collect garbage and other waste from any premises where rules and
regulations are not complied with, and the failure to collect the same by
direction shall not relieve the user from the payment of fees or penalties
provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979)
7-2-7: GARBAGE, TRASH AND OTHER REFUSE FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
All garbage, refuse and rubbish in and about any private residence, dwelling
house, commercial or industrial building shall be deposited in sanitary
containers placed in designated areas of the city. Users of ninety (90) gallon
mobile sanitary containers shall place the sanitary containers at the
designated curb areas for pick up.
The city shall provide "roll out" service to move the ninety (90) gallon mobile
containers to designated curb areas for pick up for an additional charge of
four dollars ($4.00) per month in addition to the normal collection rate. (Ord.
889, 11-12-1979)
7-2-8: CONTAINERS:
Sanitary containers or containers authorized under this chapter shall be
provided by the city. (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979)
7-2-9: STORING OF REFUSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to place in sanitary containers the following:
broken concrete, rocks, plaster, discarded building material, trees and large
tree limbs, dead animals and industrial waste. Cardboard cartons and boxes
shall be cut up or flattened to reduce volume before deposit in sanitary
containers.
   B.   No person shall place any garbage, rubbish, refuse, maintain any
abandoned or partially destroyed building, or maintain any condition that emits
an odor offensive to a reasonable person or that interferes with the reasonable
and comfortable enjoyment of life or property, including from fire or feces, in
any street, alley or other public place or upon any private property, whether
owned by such person or not, within the city except in the proper containers
for collection other than that provided pursuant to the authority of this
chapter. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse, garbage, rubbish or animal
excrement or feces on any premises hereby is declared to be a nuisance and is
prohibited. Failure to remove an existing accumulation of refuse, garbage,
rubbish, or animal excrement or feces within twenty four (24) hours after
notice from any authorized city official shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
   C.   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse or garbage in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by
the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place or in or on
any occupied premises within the city. except as the city may expressly
authorize from time to time for spring and fall cleanup. The city shall
designate such places and times where such accumulation is allowed by
resolution. (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979; amd. Ord. 1050, 1-13-1997; Ord. 1256, 3-9-
2021; Ord. 1263, 10-11-2022)
7-2-10: CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
Debris resulting from construction, reconstruction or repairs of premises and
industrial waste shall not be placed with other refuse for collection but shall
be disposed of directly by the person or persons owning, occupying or leasing
the premises. (Ord. 1050, 1-13-1997)
7-2-11: BURNING PROHIBITED:
Burning of substances of any kind within the city is hereby prohibited except
during periods prescribed by the city council 1 . (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
7-2-12: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979; amd. Ord. 1256,
3-9-2021)
7-2-13: FEES FOR SANITARY SERVICE WITHIN THE CITY:
Fees for sanitary service and regulations for sanitary service shall be
established and adopted by resolution of the Weiser city council. (Ord. 1244,
11-14-2016)
7-2-14: INTERFERENCE WITH BUILDING INSPECTOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or obstruct the building
inspector during the performance of his duties under this chapter. (Ord. 889,
11-12-1979)
7-2-15: SUPPRESSING NUISANCES:
All nuisances within the limits of the city in violation of this chapter may be
abated in the same manner as provided in section
5-3-2. (Ord. 889, 11-12-1979; amd. Ord. 1256, 3-9-2021)
7-2-16: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by regulations under this chapter by the building
inspector may appeal to the city council. Such appeal shall be perfected by
filing a written specification of grievances with the city clerk. Within a
period of not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days, the city
council shall meet to hear such appeal. Notice of the time and place of hearing
shall be given to the person appealing at the address shown on the person's
notice of appeal. The city council shall hear all parties in interest and shall
issue its order, based on findings of fact and conclusions thereon. (Ord. 889,
11-12-1979)
7-2-17: COMPLIANCE WITH AIR POLLUTION CONTROL ACT (NOW IDAHO ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AND HEALTH ACT) 1 :
The terms and conditions of this chapter shall be subject at all times to the
terms and conditions of the air pollution control act (now environmental
protection and health act) of the state of Idaho and the rules and regulations
adopted for enforcement thereof, and as the same may be amended from time to
time by the legislature of the state and the administrators of said act. (Ord.
802, 2-11-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Use Of Public Sewer Required
7-3-3: Private Wastewater Disposal Systems
7-3-4: Permits; Public Sewer Connection
7-3-5: Public Sewer Connections; Construction
7-3-6: Prohibited Discharges
7-3-7: Industrial Users' Costs
7-3-8: Destroying Or Damaging Sewerage Works
7-3-9: Inspections For Compliance
7-3-10: Violations; Penalties
7-3-11: Charges; Appraisals And Assessments
7-3-12: Board Of Appraisers
7-3-13: Classifying Users; Rate Schedule
7-3-14: Billings; Delinquencies
7-3-15: Disposition Of Monies
7-3-16: All Owners Or Occupants Liable For Assessment
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BOARD OF APPRAISERS: The board appointed according to provisions of section
7-3-12 of this chapter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building walls.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The liquid wastes from any nongovernmental user of publicly
owned treatment works, identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972", office of management and budget, as amended and supplemented
under the following divisions:
   A.   Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing;
   B.   Division B: Mining;
   C.   Division D: Manufacturing;
   D.   Division E: Transportation, communication, electric, gas and sanitary
services; and
   E.   Division I: Services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences or if it discharges less than fifty thousand (50,000) gallons per
day.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half (1/2) of an inch in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWERAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of wastewater.
SHALL AND MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (OR STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WASTEWATER: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
   A.   Objectionable Wastes Prohibited On Public Or Private Property: It shall
be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city or in any area
under the jurisdiction of said city any human excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharging To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said city any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Privies, Cesspools, Septic Tanks Prohibited: Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
   D.   Connection Required: The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the city is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities herein and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter upon official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is
within two hundred feet (200') of the property line. (Ord. 1157, 1-12-2004)
7-3-3: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Allowed: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available
under the provisions of section
7-3-2 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section. (Ord.
928, 11-22-1982)
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall obtain a written permit signed by
the Southwest health district. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the district, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Southwest health district. An inspection fee shall be paid to the Southwest
health district at the time that the application is filed. (Ord. 928, 11-22-
1982; amd. 1987 Code)
   C.   Southwest Health District Inspection: A permit for a private wastewater
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Southwest health district. The district shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the Southwest health district when the
work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the
receipt of notice by the applicant.
   D.   State Health Department Recommendations: The type, capacities, location
and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the department of health and welfare of the state. No permit
shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than three hundred
twenty (320) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Use Of Public Facilities When Available: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   F.   Owner Responsibility: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense
to the city.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the department of health and welfare. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
   H.   Time Limit For Compliance: When a public sewer becomes available, the
building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within thirty (30) days upon
notice from the Southwest Idaho health district and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean, bank run gravel or
dirt. (Ord. 1156, 2-9-2004)
7-3-4: PERMITS; PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION:
   A.   Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city clerk. (Ord.
1122, 7-9-2001)
   B.   Applications; Fees: The owner or owner's agent shall make application
for a sewer permit on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the building official. A
permit and inspection fee for a sewer permit shall be paid as provided by
resolution of the city. (Ord. 1035, 2-14-1995)
7-3-5: PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTIONS; CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Owner's Responsibilities; Indemnification: All costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
   B.   Separate Sewer Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building except that where there is an auxiliary
structure built on the premises already served by sewer and the property is
within one ownership, the auxiliary structure sewer may be connected to the
existing sewer provided the existing line is of adequate size to serve all
structures. (Ord. 1158, 5-10-2004)
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test
by the building inspector to meet all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 928,
11-22-1982)
   D.   Sewer And Drain Size: No drain or sewer pipe shall have an internal
diameter of less than four inches (4"), and all sewers and drains shall be of
sufficient size to accommodate the property they are intended to drain. The
owner shall install backflow preventers or check valves on the drains and
sewers located on said owner's property. Failure on the part of any owner to
properly maintain the backflow preventer or check valve, or to cause such an
installation to be made, will relieve the city from all responsibility for any
and all damages suffered by said owner as a result of a backflow of sewage onto
said property owner's real property and appurtenant structures.
   E.   Written Approval: No sewer connection to any premises shall be
installed until such time as the city wastewater supervisor or building
inspector gives written approval that the backflow prevention device is
adequate to protect the premises from sewage backup. (Ord. 1139, 12-9-2002)
   F.   Construction Standards: The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform
to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes 1  or other applicable
rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF "Manual Of Practice No. 9" shall apply.
   G.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer. (Ord. 1143, 3-10-2003; amd. Ord.
1139, 12-9-2002)
   H.   Surface Runoff Or Groundwater: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 928,
11-22-1982; amd. Ord. 1139, 12-9-2002)
   I.   Building And Plumbing Code Requirements 2 : The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and
the WPCF "Manual Of Practice No. 9". All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight. (Ord. 1122, 7-9-2001; amd. Ord. 1139, 12-9-2002)
   J.   Inspection Prior To Connection: The applicant for the building sewer
permit shall notify the building inspector when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the building inspector or a representative.
   K.   Guarding Excavations; Restoration: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982; amd. Ord. 1139, 12-9-2002)
   L.   Pipe Size/Backflow Required: No drain or sewer pipe shall have an
internal diameter of less than four inches (4"), and all sewers and drains
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the property they are intended to
drain. The owner shall install backflow preventers or check valves on the
drains and sewers where the drainage piping serves fixtures which have flood
level rims located below the elevation of the next upstream manhole cover of
the Weiser public sewer system. Drainage piping shall be protected from
backflow of sewer by installing an approved type backwater valve on the owner's
property. Failure on the part of any owner to properly maintain the backflow
preventer or check valve, or to cause such an installation to be made will
relieve the city from all responsibility for any and all damages suffered by
said owner as a result of a backflow of sewage onto said property owner's real
property and appurtenant structures. (Ord. 1154, 11-10-2003)
   M.   Inspection And Approval By City: No sewer connection to any premises
shall be installed until such time as the city wastewater supervisor or
building inspector gives written approval that the backflow prevention device
is adequate to protect the premises from sewage backup. (Ord. 1143, 3-10-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-1 of this code.
2 2. See section
  4-2-1 of this code.
7-3-6: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Sanitary Sewers: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater; Unpolluted Drainage: Stormwater and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as
combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the building
inspector. Industrial or commercial cooling water or unpolluted process waters
may be discharged upon written request to and approval of the city council to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create a hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited to,
cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) or cyanide in the
wastes as discharged to the public sewer. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works. (Ord. 1148, 8-11-2003)
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   D.   Harmful Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes, if it appears
likely in the opinion of the sewer plant supervisor that such wastes can harm
either the sewer, wastewater treatment process or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the sewer plant supervisor will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant
and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65 degrees centigrade).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 degrees and 65 degrees centigrade).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
building inspector.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0. (Ord. 1148, 8-11-
2003)
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment plant effluent but cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   Rejection Or Handling Harmful Wastes: If any water or wastes are
discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in this
section, and which in the judgment of the sewer plant supervisor may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewerage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
7-3-13 of this chapter.
   F.   Pretreatment Or Equalization Plants And Equipment: If the city permits
the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of
the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city council and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
   G.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the sewer plant supervisor, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   H.   Maintaining Owner's Responsibility: Where preliminary treatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner's expense.
   I.   Control Manhole: When required by the city, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans and approved
by the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner's expense
and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   J.   Testing, Analyzing: All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of water and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods
For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public
Health Association and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewerage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
   K.   Special Agreements, Arrangements: No statement contained in this
chapter shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment;
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-7: INDUSTRIAL USERS' COSTS:
All industrial users may be required to pay that portion of the construction
costs of transport and treatment works allocable to the treatment wastes from
such users. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982; amd. 1987 Code)
Monthly sewer service rates for industrial users shall be based on a
contractual arrangement set by the city. The contract shall set forth the
discharge limits and the rate schedule to be used. The contract shall run for a
minimum of one year with review at six (6) months intervals. No industrial
discharge shall be accepted into the city public sewer system without a
contractual arrangement being in effect. (1987 Code)
7-3-8: DESTROYING OR DAMAGING SEWERAGE WORKS:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-9: INSPECTIONS FOR COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Authorized: The sewer plant supervisor and other duly authorized
employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The sewer plant supervisor or a representative shall have no authority
to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   Indemnification: While performing the necessary work on private
properties, the sewer plant supervisor or duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and damages for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except such as may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   C.   Easements To Enter: The sewer plant supervisor and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewerage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work,
if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of
the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord.
928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations; Notices: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
7-3-8 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Continued Violations: Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-11: CHARGES; APPRAISALS AND ASSESSMENTS:
Each lot, parcel of land or premises having a private water supply shall be
appraised and assessed by the board of appraisers for the purpose of
establishing the monthly service charge or fee to be charged or assessed to and
against such property. In making such appraisement and assessment, there shall
be taken into consideration the volume of effluent, BOD content, suspended
solids content and type of waste so as to as nearly as possible fix the rate,
charge or fee upon the same relative basis as is herein imposed upon like
property under section
7-3-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-12: BOARD OF APPRAISERS:
There is hereby created a board of appraisers consisting of five (5) members to
be the same persons as the duly appointed public services committee of the city
of Weiser, the public works superintendent, and the wastewater superintendent
of the city. (Ord. 1085, 6-14-1999)
7-3-13: CLASSIFYING USERS; RATE SCHEDULE:
   A.   The city shall place each classified user into the appropriate
classification and shall have the authority to change a user's classification
as required to maintain an equitable system. The user classification and rate
schedule will be adopted by resolution of the city council and may be
consistent with the "User Charge Study" prepared by CH2MHILL in 1982. The board
of appraisers shall annually review the sewer rate structure and shall
recommend to the city council such rates as necessary to generate necessary
sewer system revenue. (Ord. 1041, 9-11-1995)
   B.   All such proposals shall be filed with the city clerk. Thereupon, the
clerk shall have a concise statement of the proposed rates, published in a
daily issue of a newspaper of general circulation in the city setting forth a
date and a place for a public hearing before the said board of appraisers upon
the same rates, which hearing shall be held not less than ten (10) days after
the publication of said notice.
   C.   The board of appraisers shall, upon the date and at the place set forth
in the said notice, hold a public hearing and shall have the power to ratify,
confirm, modify or approve the said appraisement and assessment. In case of
changes made under section
7-3-7 of this chapter, notice shall be given to those property holders affected
and shall be by written notice mailed to the said property owners by the city
clerk, which mailing shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the said hearing.
(Ord. 941, 1-14-1985; amd. 1987 Code)
   D.   After the said hearing upon any fee or charge under this chapter, the
board of appraisers shall submit a final schedule of recommended rates and
charges, or a recommended change in present rates to the city council. (Ord.
941, 1-14-1985)
7-3-14: BILLINGS; DELINQUENCIES:
All billings for charges or fees levied under this chapter shall be combined
with billings for water service rendered by the city and shall be billed at the
same time and in the same manner as such water bills 1 . Bills for water and
sewer service shall be due and payable on the date mailed and shall be deemed
delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days following said mailing date. Water
or sewer service or both may be discontinued if payments are more than five (5)
days delinquent. Upon disconnection for nonpayment of bills, a reconnection
charge of ten dollars ($10.00) for each water connection shall be charged and
collected before sewer or water service or both shall be reconnected. (Ord.
996, 10-15-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 6 of this code.
7-3-15: DISPOSITION OF MONIES:
   A.   All monies collected by the city under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over to the city treasurer in the same manner as is required for
the payment of other city monies.
   B.   The portion of the money collected for the purpose of funding equipment
replacement shall be paid into the sewer capital reserve fund and shall be used
for the purpose of financing sewer plant and pump station improvements and
replacements. Such revenues shall not be used to offset current operations or
maintenance costs. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
7-3-16: ALL OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS LIABLE FOR ASSESSMENT:
It is specifically enacted that all property in the city to which municipal
wastewater facilities are available but are not used by the owner or occupant
of said parcel of land, are still subject to assessment under the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 928, 11-22-1982)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Customer System Open For Inspection
7-4-4: Backflow Prevention Requirements
7-4-5: Type Of Backflow Protection Required
7-4-6: Approval Of Assemblies
7-4-7: Responsibilities
7-4-8: Previously Installed Assemblies
7-4-9: Enforcement
7-4-10: Severability
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a basis for implementing the state of
Idaho drinking water regulations, enacted to ensure safe drinking within the
water systems which serve the public.
Any interpretations of this chapter regarding scope, intent, degree of hazard
or type of protection required, will be subject to the current accepted
guidelines of the state of Idaho at the time of the interpretation, and the
regulations established herein. (Ord. 1140, 12-9-2002)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following
shall apply:
AIR GAP SEPARATION: The physical, vertical separation between the free flowing
discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and the open or nonpressure
receiving vessel.
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly which has been approved by
the state and this city, for preventing backflow.
ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (Also Known As An ANTISIPHON VALVE): A device
consisting of a single check valve in the supply line that opens to the
atmosphere when the pressure in the line drops to atmospheric.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any supply of water used to augment the supply obtained
through the purveyor's water system which serves the premises in question.
BACKFLOW: The reverse from normal flow direction in a plumbing system or water
system caused by back pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER: An individual who is certified by the
state and registered with the purveyor, to test backflow prevention assemblies.
CHECK VALVE: A valve that permits flow in only one direction.
CONTAMINANT: Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or
matter in water which may render the water nonpotable, according to state
regulations.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection or piping arrangement
between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other source or
system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable
water system used water, water from any source other than an approved public
water system, industrial fluid, gas or substance other than the intended
potable water with which the system is supplied. Cross connections include
bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or change
over devices and other temporary or permanent devices which, or because of
which "backflow" can or may occur.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL MANUAL: The most current version of the "Cross
Connection Control Manual" published by the Pacific Northwest section of the
American Water Works Association is hereby adopted as the standard for cross
connection control and backflow prevention devices.
CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTOR: An individual approved by the purveyor, to inspect
for cross connections.
CUSTOMER SYSTEM: All plumbing, piping, and appurtenances on the customer's side
of the point of metering or connection in the case of fire systems generally at
or near the property line.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) independently acting check
valves with a shutoff valve on each side of the two (2) check valves. The
assembly also has test ports for checking the water tightness of each check
valve. The assembly must be an approved backflow prevention assembly.
DOUBLE DETECTOR CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: Same as a double check valve assembly
with the addition of a water meter and an additional double check valve
assembly bypassing the main line assembly for the purpose of measuring low or
proportional flow. The assembly must be an approved backflow prevention
assembly.
FACILITY SURVEY: An on site review of the water source, facilities, equipment,
operation, and maintenance practices for the purpose of evaluating the hazards
to the drinking water supply.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER ASSEMBLY: A mechanical assembly consisting of one
spring loaded check valve in the supply line and a spring loaded air inlet on
the downstream side of the check valve which will open to atmosphere when the
pressure in the assembly drops below one pound per square inch. The assembly
consists of two (2) shutoff valves and two (2) test ports for checking water
tightness of the check valve. The assembly must be an approved backflow
prevention assembly. The city of Weiser does not recognize pressure vacuum
breaker assemblies as approved for lawn sprinkler or irrigation systems.
PURVEYOR: The city of Weiser or its authorized agents.
REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW (RP): An assembly for preventing backflow
incorporating two (2) check valves, a differential relief valve located between
the two (2) check valves, two (2) shutoff valves, one on each end of the
assembly, test ports for checking water tightness of the check valves and the
operation of the relief valve. The assembly must be an approved backflow
prevention assembly.
REDUCED PRESSURE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY (RPD): Same as an RP assembly with the
addition of a water meter and an additional RP assembly bypassing the main line
assembly for the purpose of measuring low or proportional flow. The assembly
must be an approved backflow prevention assembly.
SAFE DRINKING WATER (POTABLE WATER): Water which has sufficiently low
concentrations of microbiological, inorganic chemical, organic chemical,
radiological or physical substances so that individuals drinking such water at
normal levels of consumption will not be exposed to disease organisms or other
substances which may produce harmful physical effects.
SECONDARY CONTAMINANT: Contaminants which at levels generally found in drinking
water do not present unreasonable risk to health, but do adversely affect
taste, odor or color.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point of water delivery to the customer at the meter,
or in the case of fire systems, generally at or near the property line.
STATE: The state of Idaho. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-2010)
7-4-3: CUSTOMER SYSTEM OPEN FOR INSPECTION:
The customer system shall be open for "facility survey" at all reasonable times
to the purveyor to determine whether cross connections or other structural or
sanitary hazards including violations of these regulations exist. When such a
condition becomes known, the purveyor shall cause the service to the premises
to be immediately discontinued or denied by a physical break in the service
until the customer has corrected the condition in conformance with these
regulations. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-2010)
7-4-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS:
Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on each service line of a
customer's system at or near the property line or immediately inside the
building being served, but in all cases before the first branch line leading
off the service line wherever any of the following conditions exist:
   A.   There is an auxiliary water supply which is, or could be, connected to
the potable water piping.
   B.   Where there is piping for conveying liquids other than potable water,
and where that piping is installed and operated in a manner which could cause a
cross connection.
   C.   There are cross connections or intricate plumbing which make it
impractical to ascertain whether or not a cross connection exists.
   D.   In the case where there has been a history of repeating the same or
similar cross connection or a backflow, even though these have been removed or
disconnected.
   E.   Where there is a building over two (2) stories in height or any
plumbing system that is greater than or equal to thirty feet (30') above the
water main from which it is served.
   F.   Where fire hydrants or fire systems are connected to the potable
domestic water service within the property being served.
   G.   Where a single water service is used to supply three (3) or more
dwellings.
   H.   Where the water meter serving the property is one and one-half inches
(11/2") or larger.
   I.   Where there is backflow or back siphonage potential.
   J.   Where any fixture is subject to being submerged.
   K.   Where the system is not open for inspection. (Ord. 1140, 12-9-2002)
7-4-5: TYPE OF BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED:
The type of protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard
which exists as follows:
   A.   An approved air gap of at least twice the inside diameter, but not less
than one inch (1"), of the incoming supply line measured vertically above the
top rim of the vessel, or an approved reduced pressure backflow prevention
assembly shall be installed where the substance which could backflow is a
"contaminant" or potentially hazardous to health. Examples of premises where
these conditions may exist include hospitals, mortuaries, car washes, medical
clinics, auxiliary water systems, boilers, sewage piping, etc.
   B.   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where the
substance which could backflow is a secondary contaminant. Examples would
include landscape irrigation systems, multiple dwelling units served by a
single water service, etc.
   C.   An approved pressure vacuum breaker or an atmospheric vacuum breaker
shall be installed where the substance which could backflow is objectionable
does not pose a risk to health and where there is no possibility of back
pressure in the downsteam piping.
   D.   In the case of all private fire services, an approved backflow
prevention assembly installed to the purveyor's construction specifications
shall be required. The purveyor may require a monitoring meter or detection
system to detect unauthorized use or leakage within the system. The type of
backflow prevention assembly shall be as follows:
      1.   Low Hazard: Systems with or without a pumper connection but no
auxiliary water supplies available, chemicals or additives, or other detectable
cross connections require an approved double check valve assembly.
      2.   High Hazard: Systems with auxiliary water supplies, chemical
additives, or other detectable cross connections shall require an approved
reduced pressure backflow prevention assembly.
   E.   No water service shall be supplied to any newly constructed premises
until the said premises has successfully passed the facility survey for cross
connections and compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-2010)
7-4-6: APPROVAL OF ASSEMBLIES:
All backflow prevention assemblies required under this chapter shall be of a
type and model approved by the state and this purveyor. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-2010)
7-4-7: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Assembly Owner: It is the responsibility of all owners of premises
where backflow assemblies are installed to abide by the conditions of this
chapter and to comply with the following:
      1.   Pay all costs associated with this chapter including the purchase,
installation, testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
      2.   Install and maintain all backflow prevention assemblies in proper
working order at all times, including repair as required, and in accordance
with this chapter and acceptable industry practice.
      3.   Annually test all backflow prevention assemblies, with such testing
to be conducted by a licensed backflow prevention assembly tester who is
registered with the purveyor and who provides a copy of the test results to the
purveyor. The annual test date shall be the anniversary date of the
installation or one year from the date of the last testing of the device. The
purveyor at their discretion may send a notice of annual test prior to the
annual test date to each backflow assembly owner; however, the sole
responsibility for annual testing and reporting remains with the assembly
owner. In the event that this test is not performed within ten (10) business
days of the annual test date, the backflow assembly owner shall inform the
purveyor when the test will be performed. It shall be a violation of this
chapter if any water backflow assembly owner fails to conduct the test of their
backflow device in accordance with this section. Further, any backflow assembly
holder found to be in violation of this section shall be subject to immediate
termination of water services and any applicable fees. Any special
circumstances may be considered at the sole discretion of the purveyor.
In the case of lawn sprinkler and irrigation systems, all backflow assemblies
shall be tested:
         a.   Immediately upon installation or activation of the assembly.
         b.   Any time the assembly has been taken out of and returned to
service.
         c.   Prior to any use of irrigation system in the spring.
      4.   Maintain all backflow prevention assemblies in a manner that allows
them to be tested by a method that has been approved by the state of Idaho and
the purveyor.
   B.   Licensed Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester: The licensed backflow
prevention assembly tester shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Maintain a current backflow assembly tester license with the state
of Idaho.
      2.   Annually register with the purveyor.
      3.   Maintain testing equipment in proper working condition.
      4.   Maintain the design or operation characteristics of all backflow
prevention assemblies.
      5.   Ensure that devices are tested according to accepted industry
practice and all state and city regulations.
      6.   Enter all required testing data; including license number and test
gauge serial numbers, on cross connection test forms submitted to the purveyor.
      7.   Provide a copy of the completed test report to the property owners
and/or persons in charge of any premises and the purveyor.
      8.   Properly tag all assemblies as inspected. All assembly inspection
tags must have a minimum of the following information:
         a.   The tester's name and contact information including company name.
         b.   The tester's license number.
         c.   Date of test.
         d.   Identification of the assembly being tested (serial number).
      9.   Report test results to the purveyor within ten (10) working days of
testing. Any reports submitted after ten (10) working days are considered null
and void and may only be accepted at the sole discretion of the purveyor.
      10.   A tester's registration may be revoked by the purveyor if it is
determined that the tester has:
         a.   Falsely, incompletely, or inaccurately reported assembly test
reports;
         b.   Used uncalibrated gauges;
         c.   Used improper testing procedures;
         d.   Created a threat to public health or the environment;
         e.   Violated any regulations pertaining to applicable city or state
law.
      11.   Registration may only be reinstated upon review and at the sole
discretion of the purveyor. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-2010)
7-4-8: PREVIOUSLY INSTALLED ASSEMBLIES:
Backflow prevention assemblies which were approved at the time they were
installed but are not on the current list of approved assemblies, shall be
permitted to remain in service provided they are properly maintained, are
commensurate with the degree of hazard, are tested at least annually, and
perform satisfactorily. When assemblies of this type are moved, or require more
than minimum maintenance, they shall be replaced by assemblies which are on the
list of approved assemblies by the state and approved by the purveyor. (Ord.
1140, 12-9-2002)
7-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The purveyor shall cause the water service to the premises to be immediately
discontinued or denied by a physical break in the service until the customer
has corrected the condition in conformance with this chapter. This shall
include removal and/or confiscation of any jumper or device which may cause a
cross connection. Service shall be discontinued in any of the following
situations:
   A.   When it becomes known that a condition such as a cross connection,
plumbing, structural or sanitary hazard, or other violation of this chapter is
present.
   B.   In those cases of extreme emergency, and where an immediate threat to
life or public health is found to exist.
   C.   When, in other cases, the tests, repairs, and/or replacement of
assemblies or any other requirements, within this chapter are not performed.
   D.   Upon any such circumstances deemed necessary by the purveyor to protect
the public drinking water system.
   E.   Only upon the customer's complete compliance with this chapter shall
the service be restored. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-2010)
7-4-10: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any portion of this chapter is
held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable for
any reason, such determination shall not affect the validity of the remainder
of this chapter or its application to any other ordinance. (Ord. 1217, 5-10-
2010)
CHAPTER 5
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Establishment Of Wellhead Protection Zone
7-5-4: Restrictions Within Zone 1 Of The Wellhead Protection Area
7-5-5: Restrictions Within Zone 2 Of The Wellhead Protection Area
7-5-6: Administration
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
To promote the public health, safety and general welfare and minimize public
and private losses due to contamination of the public water supply, to maximize
groundwater protection/pollution abatement control procedures, and minimize
land use restrictions that:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly pollution remediation
projects;
   C.   Minimize regulations on land use;
   D.   Minimize business interruption;
   E.   Ensure that the public is provided with safe potable water supply now
and for future generations. (Ord. 1009, 6-14-1993)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   C.   Any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance
by the United States Of America acting through the environmental protection
agency or any successor agency, section 101 (14) of the comprehensive
environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, or any material
or substance by the state of Idaho, acting through the division of
environmental quality or any successor agency.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Wells of the city of Weiser providing potable water to the
community and private wells which may contribute or provide water to the public
distribution system.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earthen cover
thereon.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments.
ZONE 1: An area extending one hundred feet (100') radially from the wellhead
supplying potable water to the city water system.
ZONE 2: An area extending between one hundred feet (100') designated as zone 1
to and including outer limit of the city impact area. (Ord. 1009, 6-14-1993)
7-5-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONE:
There is hereby established a wellhead protection area described as all the
area within the city and within the city impact area. It is further established
that this area is composed of two (2) zones, "zone 1" and "zone 2" as they are
defined in section
7-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1009, 6-14-1993)
7-5-4: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE 1 OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
The following uses and conditions are hereby prohibited within zone 1 of the
wellhead protection area:
All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection handling,
manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any solid or liquid material
or waste having potentially hazardous impact on groundwater.
Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum products.
Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
Keeping livestock.
Sanitary landfills.
Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems.
Septic tanks and drainfields.
Service use or storage of hazardous or toxic material, expressly including
herbicide and pesticide applications to the soils, groundwater or surface
water.
Underground injection wells.
Underground storage tanks. (Ord. 1009, 6-14-1993)
7-5-5: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE 2 OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
The following uses or conditions are hereby prohibited within zone 2 of the
wellhead protection area:
Agricultural uses, immediately adjacent to a wellhead and outside zone 1 shall
be restricted and the keeping of livestock will be prohibited within five
hundred feet (500') of a wellhead.
Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
Sanitary landfills.
Sanitary sewer lines within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a wellhead. Public
sanitary sewer lines in place at the effective date of this chapter shall be
permitted to remain. Repair and maintenance of those lines shall be done with
regard to the special hazards posed to the wellhead by contamination.
Septic tanks or drainfields within two hundred feet (200') of a wellhead.
Underground injection wells. (Ord. 1009, 6-14-1993)
7-5-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is
presently enacted or may be from time to time be amended. (Ord. 1009, 6-14-
1993)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: General Provisions
7-6-2: Abbreviations
7-6-3: Definitions
7-6-4: Regulations
7-6-5: Fees
7-6-6: Administration
7-6-7: Right Of Entry
7-6-8: Enforcement
7-6-9: Penalties
7-6-10: Records Retention
7-6-11:    Severability
7-6-12:    Nonliability
7-6-13:    Conflicts
7-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for
dischargers into the city wastewater collection and treatment system (POTW) and
enables the city to protect public health in conformity with all applicable
local, state and federal laws including the clean water act (33 USC 1251 et
seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 CFR part 403).
The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or the use
and disposal of the resulting sludge in compliance with applicable statutes and
regulations;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
system which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass
through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere, or otherwise be
incompatible with the system;
      3.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system;
      4.   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public.
   B.   Provisions: This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into
the city wastewater system through the enforcement of administrative
regulations; this chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW. This chapter
authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; authorizes monitoring,
compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review
procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein. This chapter does not provide for recovery of operations, maintenance
or replacement costs of the POTW, or the costs associated with the construction
of collection and treatment systems used by industrial dischargers, in
proportion to their use of the POTW, which are the subject of separate
enactments.
   C.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the public works
superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the public works
superintendent may be delegated by the public works superintendent to other
city personnel. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-2: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
    ASPP: Accidental spill prevention plan
    BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand
    CFR: Code of federal regulations
    COD: Chemical oxygen demand
    EPA: U.S. environmental protection agency
    gpd: Gallons per day
    l: Liter
    mg: Milligrams
    mg/l: Milligrams per liter
    NPDES: National pollutant discharge elimination system
    O&M: Operation and maintenance
    POTW: Publicly owned treatment works
    RCRA: Resource conservation and recovery act
    SIC: Standard industrial classification
    SU: Sewer user
    SWDA: Solid waste disposal act (42 USC 6901 et seq.)
    TDS: Total dissolved solids
    TSS: Total suspended solids
    USC: United States Code (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: The clean water act of 1972 (33 USC 1251 et seq.) as amended.
APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: For any specified pollutant, general
discharge prohibitions, city's specific limitations on discharge, state
standards, the categorical pretreatment standards (when effective), whichever
standard is most stringent.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The regional administrator of EPA region 10.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER:
   A.   If the user is a corporation: 1) the president, secretary, treasurer,
or a vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business
function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision making
functions for the corporation; or 2) the manager of one or more manufacturing,
production, or operation facilities employing more than two hundred fifty (250)
persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding twenty five
million dollars ($25,000,000.00) (in second quarter 1980 dollars), if authority
to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance
with corporate procedures;
   B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner
of proprietor, respectively;
   C.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his/her
designee.
   D.   The individuals described in subsections A through C of this definition
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the city.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration (milligrams per liter, mg/l).
BOARD OF SEWER APPRAISERS: A board consisting of the public services committee
of the Weiser city council, the public works superintendent, and the wastewater
superintendent. The board shall establish all rates, charges or fees charged
under this chapter. The board shall also conduct hearings and hear appeals from
services, regulations, and fees charged under this chapter. The board's
decisions shall be presented to the council for approval.
BRINE: Wastewater containing total dissolved solids (TDS) in excess of twenty
five thousand milligrams per liter (25,000 mg/l) or 0.2 pound per gallon.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the USEPA in accordance
with section 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific
category of users and which appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405
- 471.
CATEGORICAL USER: A user covered by one of EPA's categorical pretreatment
standards.
CITY: City of Weiser, or the city council of Weiser, or its authorized
representatives.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
COOLING WATER OR NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does
not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste
product, or finished product. Cooling water can be discharged from any use,
such as air conditioning, heat exchangers, cooling or refrigeration to which
the only pollutant added is heat.
DISCHARGER - INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER: Any nonresidential user who discharges an
effluent into a POTW by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force
mains, constructed drainage ditches, surface water intercepting ditches, and
all constructed devices and appliances appurtenant thereto.
DOMESTIC USER (RESIDENTIAL USER): Any person who contributes, causes or allows
the contribution of wastewater into the Weiser POTW that is of a similar volume
and/or chemical makeup as that of a residential dwelling unit. Dischargers from
a residential dwelling unit typically include up to one hundred (100) gallons
per capita per day, 0.2 pound of BOD per capita, and 0.17 pound of TSS per
capita.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The U.S. environmental protection agency
or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director, or
other duly authorized official of said agency.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307 of the act.
EXISTING USER: For noncategorical users, an "existing user" is defined as any
user that is discharging wastewater prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a onetime basis
without regard to the flow in the wastestream or without consideration of time.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW from any
nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the act.
INDUSTRIAL USER: The same definition as "user" which is hereinafter defined.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any industrial,
manufacturing, trade or business process or from the development, recovery or
processing of natural resources.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, either: a) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations; b) inhibits or disrupts its sludge
processes, use or disposal; or c) is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the city's NPDES permit or to the prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal in compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations
or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations):
section 405 of the clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA)
including title II more commonly referred to as the resource conservation and
recovery act (RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA, the clean
air act and the toxic substances control act.
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT: The maximum concentration (or loading) of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of
any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow
rate and the duration of the sampling event.
MAY: Is permissive.
MEDICAL WASTES: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
NPDES: National pollutant discharge elimination system permit program as
administered by EPA or the state.
NEW SOURCE:
   A.   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is
or may be a discharge, the construction of which commenced after publication of
proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the clean water act
which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      1. The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located; or
      2. The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or
      3. The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure facility or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   C.   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      1. Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on site construction
program:
         a. Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or equipment;
or
         b. Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation or
removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary for
the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment;
or
      2. Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
paragraph.
NEW USER: A "new user" is not a "new source" and is defined as a user that
applies to the city for a new building permit or any person who occupies an
existing building and plans to begin discharge of wastewater to the city's
collection system after the effective date of this chapter. Any person that
buys an existing facility that is discharging nondomestic wastewater will be
considered an "existing user" if no significant changes are made in the
manufacturing operation.
OTHER WASTES: Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, oil, tar, chemicals and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
PASS-THROUGH: The discharge of pollutants through the POTW into navigable
waters in quantities or concentrations which are a cause, in whole or in part,
of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
PERMITTEE: A person or user issued a wastewater discharge permit.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This
definition includes all federal, state, or local governmental entities.
pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics
of the wastewater (i.e., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, chemical
oxygen demand (COD), toxicity, or odor).
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to (or in lieu of) introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological process; by process changes; or by other means (except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard).
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standard, and local
limits established by the city/POTW.
PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute prohibitions
against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in
section
7-6-4 of this chapter.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A "treatment works", as defined by
section 212 of the act (33 USC 1292) which is owned by the city of Weiser. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant. The
term also means the city of Weiser.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
SEWAGE: Water carried human wastes or combination of water carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, storm or other waters as may be present.
SEWER: Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and transport
sewage or stormwater from the generating source.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user of the city's wastewater
disposal system who:
   A.   Is subject to or potentially subject to categorical pretreatment
standards, or
   B.   Is determined by the city to have a significant impact or potential for
significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the
system's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the system.
SLUG LOAD: Any substance released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
concentration which could cause a violation of the discharge standards in
section
7-6-4 of this chapter or any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch
discharge.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE: A classification pursuant to the
"Standard Industrial Classification Manual" issued by the United States office
of management and budget.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person assigned to be in charge of the operation of the
wastewater treatment plant at the time of this reading, and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his authorized
representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): A well mixed sample that is filtered through a weighed
standard glass fiber filter and the residue retained on the filter and dried at
one hundred three to one hundred five degrees Celsius (103 - 105°C). The
increase in weight of the filter represents the suspended solids.
TOTAL DISSOLVED SOLIDS (TDS): The portion of solids that passes through a
filter of 2.0 pm (or smaller) nominal pore size and subsequently dried at one
hundred three to one hundred five degrees Celsius (103 - 105°C). The dried
residual represents total dissolved solids. TDS consists of organic and
inorganic constituents.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is determined by procedure as defined in "suspended solids".
TOXIC POLLUTANTS: Those substances listed in the federal priority pollutant
list and any other pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the administrator of the environmental protection
agency under section 307 of the clean water act (33 USC 1317).
TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT: The discharge from the POTW into waters of the United
States.
UPSET: An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards adopted by the city, due to the factors beyond the reasonable control
of the discharger, and excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation thereof.
USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge. The source shall not
include "domestic user" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER: Industrial waste, or sewage or any other waste including that which
may be combined with any groundwater, surface water or stormwater that may be
discharged to the POTW.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: An authorization or equivalent control document
issued by the city to users discharging wastewater to the POTW. The permit may
contain appropriate pretreatment standards and requirements as set forth in
this chapter. It may also be called an "industrial wastewater acceptance
permit".
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW which is designed to
provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-
1999)
7-6-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Discharge Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. The
following are specifically prohibited:
      1.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient, either alone or by interaction, to cause
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the operation of the
POTW. At no time shall two (2) successive readings on an explosion hazard meter
at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be
more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of
the lower explosive limit of the meter. No wastestream having a closed cup
flashpoint of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°
Celsius) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21 is allowed to be
discharged to the POTW.
      2.   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
system.
         a.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l),
for nonbiodegradable (mineral) fats, oils and greases or in excess of two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) for biodegradable (nonmineral)
fats, oils and greases, or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (or 0° and 65° Celsius).
         b.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the public works director.
         c.   Any pretreatment sludges and spent chemicals generated shall be
disposed of in accordance with section 405 of the clean water act and subtitles
C and D of the resource conservation and recovery act. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
      3.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the system, such as, but not limited to,
battery or plating acids and wastes, copper sulfate, chromium salts and
compounds, or salt brine. (Ord. 1149, 8-11-2003)
      4.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to exceed the
limitation set forth in the categorical pretreatment standards, as promulgated,
which is hereby adopted by reference.
      5.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which, either
singly or by interaction, are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard
to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair.
      6.   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or treatment
residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. (In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under section 405 of the
act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use on disposal
developed pursuant to the solid waste disposal act, the clean air act, the
toxic substance control act, or state standards applicable to the sludge
management method being used.)
      7.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
other disposal system permits.
      8.   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions. Color (in combination with turbidity) shall not cause the treatment
plant effluent to reduce the depth of the compensation point for photosynthetic
activity by more than ten percent (10%) from the seasonably established norm
for aquatic life.
      9.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no case,
any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (66° Celsius), or having temperatures sufficient to cause
the influent to the treatment plant to exceed one hundred four degrees
Fahrenheit (104°F) (40° Celsius) unless the approval authority, upon the
request of the city, approves the alternate limits.
      10.   Any pollutant released in such strength or volume as to cause
interference in the treatment plant.
      11.   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, noncontact
cooling water, unless approved by the board of sewer appraisers.
      12.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as to exceed limits established by the city in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      13.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      14.   Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals and similar
objectionable or toxic substances to such a degree that any such material
received in the composite sewage at the point of discharge exceeds the limits
as follows. All concentrations for metallic substances are for "total" metal
unless indicated otherwise. The superintendent may impose mass limitations in
addition to, or in place of, the concentration based limitations below. Where a
user is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard and a local limit for a
given pollutant, the more stringent limit shall apply.
    Daily Maximum Allowable Discharge Limits
Arsenic  0.20 mg/l
Cadmium  1.20 mg/l
Chromium 4.80 mg/l
Copper   1.50 mg/l
Cyanide  0.10 mg/l
Lead     9.00 mg/l
Mercury  0.01 mg/l
Nickel   0.50 mg/l
Silver   2.40 mg/l
Zinc     9.50 mg/l
 
      15.   Truck or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the city and in accordance with this section.
      16.   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the superintendent.
      17.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit.
      18.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      19.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
      20.   Grease, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides
or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent
lime, stone or marble dusts, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings,
rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste papers, wood, plastics, gas, tar asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud,
or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      21.   Any wastewater, which in the opinion of the superintendent can
cause harm either to the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed under special
agreement by the superintendent (except that no special waiver shall be given
from categorical pretreatment standards).
      22.   The contents of any tank or other vessel owned or used by any
person in the business of collecting or pumping sewage, effluent, septage or
other wastewater unless said person has first obtained testing and approval as
may be generally required by the city of Weiser and paid all fees assessed for
the privilege of said discharge.
      23.   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the federal
insecticide fungicide rodenticide act (FIFRA).
      24.   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
      25.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   B.   Other Limitations:
      1.   Categorical Pretreatment Standards: Categorical pretreatment
standards as promulgated by the environmental protection agency pursuant to the
act shall be met by all dischargers of the regulated industrial categories. The
categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471, are hereby incorporated. An application for modification of the
categorical pretreatment standards may be considered for submittal to the
approval authority by the city, when the city's wastewater treatment system
achieves consistent removal of the pollutants as defined by 40 CFR section
403.7.
      2.   State Requirements: State requirements and limitations on discharges
to the POTW shall be met by all users which are subject to such standards in
any instance in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and
limitations, or those in this chapter or other applicable ordinances.
      3.   Right Of Revision: The city reserves the right to amend this chapter
or an industrial wastewater permit to provide for more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with
the objectives set forth in subsection 7-6-1A of this chapter.
      4.   Dilution: No discharger shall, without written approval of the
superintendent, increase the use of potable or process water in any way, nor
mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge as a partial
or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the
standards set forth in this chapter.
      5.   Mass Limitations: The city may impose mass limitations on
dischargers which are using dilution to meet the pretreatment standards or
requirements of this chapter or, in other cases, where the imposition of mass
limitations is deemed appropriate by the city.
      6.   Special Agreements: The city reserves the right to enter into
special agreements with users setting out special terms under which they may
discharge to the POTW. In no case will a special agreement waive compliance
with a categorical pretreatment standard or federal pretreatment requirement.
However, the user may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15. They may also request a variance from the
categorical pretreatment standard from the approval authority. Such a request
will be approved only if the user can prove that factors relating to its
discharge are fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when
establishing that categorical pretreatment standard. A user requesting a
fundamentally different factor variance must comply with the procedural
substantive provisions in 40 CFR 403.13.
      7.   Wastewater Treatment: User shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance
with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements set out in this
chapter within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the
city, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review,
and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the facility. The
review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
acceptable discharge to the city under the provisions of this chapter.
      8.   Compliance: Compliance by existing user (categorical users) covered
by categorical pretreatment standards shall be within three (3) years of the
date the standard is effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified in
the appropriate standard. The city shall establish a final compliance deadline
date for any existing significant industrial user (SIU) not covered by
categorical pretreatment standards or for any categorical user when the local
limits for said user are more restrictive than EPA's categorical pretreatment
standards.
      9.   New Source Dischargers: New source dischargers and "new users" (that
fit the definition of SIU) are required to comply with applicable pretreatment
standards within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days from the
beginning of discharge). New sources and "new users" shall install and have in
operating condition and shall "start up" all pollution control equipment
required to meet applicable pretreatment standards before beginning to
discharge.
      10.   Compliance Date: Any wastewater discharge permit issued to a
categorical user shall not contain a compliance date beyond any deadline date
established in EPA's categorical pretreatment standards. Any other existing
SIU, which is in noncompliance with any local limits shall be provided a
compliance scheduled placed in an order or other similar enforcement document
as outlined elsewhere in this chapter.
      11.   Interceptors: Fats, oils, greases, and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the
proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of fats, oils,
greases, or sand, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
residential users. All interception units shall be or type and capacity
approved by the superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and
repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at his expense. The introduction of
chemical, bacterial and/or enzyme or any other additive into a grease or grit
interceptor is prohibited unless approved by the superintendent.
      12.   Flammable Discharges: Users with the potential to discharge
flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved,
combustible gas detection meter.
   C.   Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plans: The city may require any user
to develop and implement an accidental discharge/slug control plan. Where
deemed necessary by the city, facilities to prevent accidental discharge or
slug discharges of pollutants shall be provided and maintained at the user's
cost and expense. An accidental spill prevention plan/slug control plan showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the city for review and approval before implementation. The city
shall determine which user is required to develop a plan and require said plan
to be submitted within ninety (90) days after notification by the city. Each
user shall implement its ASPP as submitted or as modified after such plan has
been reviewed and approved by the city. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures by the city shall not relieve the user from the
responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of
this section.
Any user required to develop and implement an accidental discharge/control slug
plan shall submit a plan which addresses, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   Description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the standards in this section; and
      4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-5: FEES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment
of fees from dischargers to the city's wastewater disposal system, to
compensate the city for the cost of administration of the pretreatment programs
established herein.
   B.   Charges And Fees: The city shall adopt charges and fees which may
include:
      1.   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures which
shall be the actual cost to the city for lab, sampling, manpower, equipment,
transportation and consultants.
      2.   Fees for filing appeals of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      3.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction
which shall be the actual cost to the city for reviewing such procedures.
   C.   Applicable To Chapter Only: These fees relate solely to the matters
covered by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and
penalties chargeable by the city. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements: No industrial user shall
discharge wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater
discharge permit from the city. It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage,
industrial wastes or other wastes to any sewer within the jurisdiction of the
city, and/or to the POTW without having first complied with the terms of this
chapter. All industrial dischargers proposing to discharge waste to the POTW
shall comply with all terms of this chapter prior to discharging waste to the
POTW. The city may require other users, including liquid waste haulers, to
obtain wastewater discharge permits to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
Domestic users are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
      1.   Disclosure Forms: Prior to the city granting a wastewater discharge
permit, the industrial discharger shall complete and file with the city a
disclosure declaration in the form prescribed by the city. Existing industrial
dischargers shall file disclosure forms within thirty (30) days of being
notified by the city and proposed new users and new sources shall file their
disclosure forms at least ninety (90) days prior to connecting to the POTW.
Categorical users submitting the following information shall have complied with
40 CFR 403.12 (b). The city will evaluate the complete disclosure form and data
furnished by the discharger and may require additional information. Within
thirty (30) days after full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the city shall notify the discharger of the city's acceptance thereof. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued setting forth limitations of various
waste strengths as addressed under section
7-6-4 of this chapter. The city reserves the right not to issue a wastewater
discharge permit. The disclosure to be made by the discharger shall be on
written forms provided by the city and shall cover:
         a.   Disclosure of name of facility, address and location of the
facility, owner's and operator's name (if different).
         b.   Disclosure of wastewater sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration (or mass where required by the city) of regulated
pollutants contained in section
7-6-4 of this chapter. Both daily maximum and average concentration (or mass,
where required) shall be reported. A minimum of one representative sample is
necessary to comply with this subsection A1b. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA and contained in
40 CFR part 136, as amended.
         c.   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges. Categorical users
shall submit information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated, manufacturing process
streams or other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e).
         d.   Disclosure of average daily and instantaneous peak wastewater
flow rates, in gallons per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal
variations, if any. All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable
techniques are approved by the city due to cost or nonfeasibility.
         e.   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation.
         f.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewers
or works of the city.
         g.   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter and all applicable pretreatment standards
in the discharge, together with a statement regarding whether or not compliance
is being achieved with this chapter on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional pretreatment is required for the discharger to comply with this
chapter.
         h.   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes and rate of production as it relates to wastewater flow generation,
number of employees, a schematic process diagram indicating points of discharge
from regulated or manufacturing processes.
         i.   Disclosure of the type and amount of raw materials, including
chemicals utilized (average and maximum per day) and normal operating hours.
         j.   All disclosure forms shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user using the certification text stated in subsection
D1a of this section.
         k.   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
   B.   Industrial Waste Discharge Permit: Industrial wastewater permits shall
include such conditions as are reasonably deemed necessary by the
superintendent to prevent pass through or interference, protect the quality of
the Snake River, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge management
and disposal, and protect the POTW against damage.
      1.   Wastewater Permit Contents: Wastewater discharge permits must
contain the following conditions:
         a.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five (5) years. Each significant industrial user
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire;
         b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to (and approval from) the
superintendent, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a
copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         c.   Applicable pretreatment standards and requirements, including any
special state requirements;
         d.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, submittal of
technical reports, compliance schedules, and recordkeeping requirements. These
requirements shall include an identification of pollutants to be monitored,
sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state,
and local law;
         e.   Requirement to notify the city immediately of all discharges that
could cause problems to the POTW including any slug loadings as defined in
section
7-6-3 of this chapter;
         f.   Requirement for immediate notification to the POTW where self-
monitoring results indicate noncompliance;
         g.   Requirement to report a bypass or upset of a pretreatment
facility;
         h.   Requirement for the SIU who reports noncompliance to repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit results to the POTW within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation;
         i.   A statement of applicable civil, criminal, and administrative
penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any
applicable compliance schedule.
      2.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Conditions:
         a.   Reassignment Or Transfer Of Permits: Wastewater discharge permits
may be reassigned or transferred to a new owner and/or operator only if the
permittee gives at least thirty (30) days' advance notice to the superintendent
and the superintendent approves the wastewater discharge permit transfer. The
notice to the superintendent must include a written certification by the new
owner and/or operator which:
            (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility's operations and processes;
            (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to
occur; and
            (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the
existing wastewater discharge permit.
Provided that the above occurs and that there were no significant changes to
the manufacturing operation or wastewater discharge, the new owner will be
considered an existing user and be covered by the existing limits and
requirements in the previous owner's permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of transfer renders the wastewater discharge
permit voidable as of the date of facility transfer.
         b.   Duty To Reapply: The city shall notify the discharger ninety (90)
days prior to the expiration of the discharger's wastewater discharge permit.
Within thirty (30) days of the notification, the discharger shall reapply for
reissuance of the wastewater discharge permit on a form provided by the city. A
user, whose existing wastewater discharge permit has expired and has submitted
its reapplication in the time period specified herein, shall be deemed to have
an effective wastewater permit until the city issues or denies the new
wastewater permit. A user, whose existing wastewater discharge permit has
expired and who failed to submit its reapplication in the time period specified
herein, will be deemed to be discharging without a wastewater discharge permit.
         c.   Severability: The provisions of a wastewater discharge permit are
severable, and if any provision of this wastewater discharge permit, or the
application of any provision of this permit to any circumstance is held
invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances, and the
remainder of this permit shall not be affected thereby.
         d.   Property Rights: The issuance of a wastewater discharge permit
does not convey any property rights in either real or personal property, or any
exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any invasion of personal rights,
nor any infringement of federal, state or local regulations.
         e.   Permit Holders Outside City Limits: All permit holders outside
the city limits shall be subject to all the same sewer use regulations as
permit holders inside the city limits.
         f.   Inspection And Sampling Points: The city may require inspection
and sampling manholes, flow recording devices, or sampling equipment at each
sewer discharge to the city if deemed necessary by the superintendent to assure
compliance with this chapter. The superintendent may require the construction
and maintenance of sampling facilities at other locations (for example, at the
end of a manufacturing line, or wastewater treatment system). All devices used
to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      3.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals: Any person, including the user,
may petition the city to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit
within ninety (90) days of its issuance.
         a.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
         b.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the
alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater discharge
permit.
         c.   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
         d.   If the city fails to act within thirty (30) days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit, shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
         e.   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharger permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the district court for Washington County within the state of
Idaho.
      4.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification: The superintendent may
modify the wastewater discharge permit for good cause including, but not
limited to, the following:
         a.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
         b.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance.
         c.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
         d.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the city POTW, city personnel or the receiving waters.
         e.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit.
         f.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required
reporting.
         g.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13.
         h.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit.
         i.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation
to a new owner/operator.
      5.   Revocation Of Wastewater Discharge Permit: The wastewater discharge
permit issued to the industrial user by the city may be revoked for, but not
limited to, the following reasons:
         a.   Failure to notify the city of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
         b.   Failure to provide notification to the city of changed
conditions;
         c.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         d.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
         e.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         f.   Refusing to allow the city timely access to the facility premises
and records;
         g.   Failure to meet discharge limitations;
         h.   Failure to pay fines;
         i.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         j.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         k.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         l.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility;
         m.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit of this chapter; or
         n.   If the city has to invoke its emergency provision as stated in
section
7-6-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Compliance Schedules For Meeting Applicable Pretreatment Standards:
Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance activities will
be required to comply with this chapter, the discharger shall provide a
declaration of the shortest schedule by which the discharger will provide such
additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional operational and
maintenance activities.
      1.   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the commencement and
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment equipment required for the discharger to comply with
the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, dates relating
to hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing
preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major
components, commencing construction, completing construction, and all other
acts necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Only upon recommendation of the board of sewer appraisers and
approval of the city council shall the city permit a time increment directed
toward compliance to exceed nine (9) months. Categorical industrial users shall
not be allowed to exceed nine (9) months for a compliance schedule increment.
      3.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each milestone date in
the schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the city, including no less than a statement as to whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by the milestone
date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the discharger to
return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event shall more than
nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the city.
   D.   Reporting Requirements For Discharger:
      1.   Compliance Date Report: Within ninety (90) days following the
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW by a new
discharger, any discharger subject to this chapter shall upon request of the
superintendent submit to the city a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all prohibited or regulated substances contained in its
discharge, and the average and maximum daily flow in gallons. In the case of
categorical dischargers, the flows and pollutant concentrations (or mass) of
the wastestreams from processes regulated under categorical standards must be
reported separately. This report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the
discharger into compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the discharger with the following certification:
         a.   "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all
attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with
a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
      2.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
         a.   Reports: Any discharger subject to any applicable pretreatment
standard set forth in this chapter, after compliance date of such pretreatment
standard, or in the case of a new user after commencement of discharge to the
city, shall submit to the city during the months of June and December, unless
required more frequently by the city, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of prohibited or regulated substances in the effluent which are
limited by the pretreatment standards hereof. In addition, this report shall
include a record of all measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows
during the reporting period reported in subsection D1 of this section. Flows
shall be reported based on actual measurement, provided, however, where cost or
feasibility considerations justify, the city may accept reports of average and
maximum flows estimated by verifiable techniques. The city, for good cause
shown considering such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays,
budget cycles, or other extenuating factors, may authorize the submission of
said reports on months other than those specified above. A certification
statement signed by an authorized representative of the discharger is required
as a part of the periodic compliance reports for categorical users (see
subsection D1a of this section).
         b.   Reports To Determine Charges: The city may require reporting by
users that are not required to have an industrial wastewater discharge permit
if information or data is needed to establish a sewer charge, determine the
treatability of the effluent or determine any other factor which is related to
the operation and maintenance of the sewer system.
         c.   Self-Monitoring: The city may require self-monitoring by the user
or, if requested by the user, may agree to perform the periodic compliance
monitoring needed to prepare the periodic compliance report required under this
section. If the city agrees to perform such periodic compliance monitoring, it
may charge the user for such monitoring, based upon the costs incurred by the
city for sampling and analyses. Any such charges shall be added to the normal
sewer charge and shall be payable as part of the sewer bills. The city is under
no obligation to perform periodic compliance monitoring for a user.
         d.   Report Contents: Reports of dischargers shall contain all results
of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature
and concentration of regulated pollutants, or production and mass where
required by the city. The frequency of monitoring by the discharger shall be as
prescribed by the city but not less than twice a year unless the city agrees to
sample instead. All analyses shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the city pursuant to section 304(g) of the act and contained in
40 CFR part 136, in subsection I of this section and amendments thereto, or
with any other test procedures approved by the city. Sampling shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the city and shall be
representative of wastewater discharges during the reporting period. Where 40
CFR part 136, does not include sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutants in question, or where the city determines that the part 136 sampling
and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analyses shall be performed using validated analytical methods, or
any other sampling and analytical procedures including procedures suggested by
the city or other parties approved by the city. A certification statement
signed by an authorized representative of the discharger is required as a part
of the periodic compliance reports for categorical users (see subsection D1a of
this section).
         e.   Notification Of Significant Production Changes: Any user
operating under a wastewater discharge permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits shall notify the city within two (2) business days after
the user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not providing a
notice of such anticipated change will be required to comply with the existing
limits contained in its wastewater discharge permit.
         f.   Notice Of Potential Problems Including Accidental Spills And/Or
Slug Loadings: Any user shall notify the city immediately of all discharges
that could cause problems to the POTW including any slug loadings as defined in
section
7-6-3 of this chapter. The notification shall include the concentration and
volume and corrective action. Steps being taken to reduce any adverse impact
should also be noted during the notification. Any user who discharged a "slug"
(or slugs) of prohibited materials shall be liable for any expense, loss or
damage to the POTW in addition to the amount of any fines imposed on the city
under state or federal law.
         g.   Noncompliance Reporting: If sampling performed by a user
indicates a violation, the user shall notify the city within twenty four (24)
hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat the
sampling within five (5) days and submit the results of the repeat analysis to
the city within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation, except
the user is not required to resample if:
            (1)   The city performs sampling at the user's facility at a
frequency of at least once per month, or
            (2)   The city performs sampling at the user's facility between the
time when the user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user
receives the results of this sampling.
         h.   Notification Of Changed Discharge: All users shall promptly
notify the city in advance of any substantial change in the volume or character
of pollutants in their discharge, including significant manufacturing process
changes, pretreatment modifications, and the listed or characteristic hazardous
wastes for which the user has submitted initial notification under 40 CFR
403.12 (p).
   E.   Recordkeeping: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain and make available for inspection and copying all records
of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be automatically
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or POTW, or
where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by
the superintendent.
   F.   Monitoring Facilities: Each discharger shall provide and operate, at
the discharger's own expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of each wastewater discharge to the sewer. Each
monitoring facility shall be situated on the discharger's premises, except
where such location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
discharger; the city may concur with the facility being constructed in the
public street or sidewalk area providing that the facility is located so that
it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. The city, whenever
applicable, may require the construction and maintenance of sampling facilities
at other locations (for example, at the end of a manufacturing line, wastewater
treatment system). All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
      1.   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition at the expense of the discharger. All devices
used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated at a frequency
determined by the city to ensure their accuracy.
      2.   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt
of the permit by the discharger.
   G.   Inspection And Sampling: The city shall have the right to enter the
facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter, and
any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and
whether the user is complying with all requirements thereof. Users shall allow
the city ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying and the performance of
any additional duties.
      1.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the city will be permitted to enter, without delay,
for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      2.   The city shall have the right to set up on the user's property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      4.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city's pretreatment staff access
to the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   H.   Sampling Requirements For Users:
      1.   A minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, fats, oils and greases, sulfide and volatile organics. The city
will determine on a case by case basis whether the user may be able to
composite the individual grab samples. For all other pollutants, twenty four
(24) hour composite samples must be obtained through flow proportional
composite sampling techniques where feasible. The city may waive flow
proportional composite sampling for any user that demonstrates that flow
proportional sampling is infeasible. In such cases, samples may be obtained
through time proportional composite sampling techniques or through a minimum of
eight (8) grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged.
      2.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist, or immediately downstream from the regulated or
manufacturing process if no pretreatment exists, or as determined by the city
and contained in the user's wastewater discharge permit. For categorical users,
if other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated wastewater prior to
pretreatment the user should measure the flows and concentrations necessary to
allow use of the combined wastes formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e) in order to
evaluate compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards. For other SIUs,
for which the city has adjusted its local limits to factor out dilution flows,
the user should measure the flows and concentrations necessary to evaluate
compliance with the adjusted pretreatment standard(s).
      3.   All sample results shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges from the user. If a user sampled and analyzed more frequently than
what was required in its wastewater discharge permit, it must submit all
results of sampling and analysis of the discharge as part of its self-
monitoring report.
   I.   Analytical Requirements: All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in
40 CFR part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in questions, sampling and analyses
must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
      1.   The city will follow the same procedures as outlined in subsections
H and I of this section for sampling and analyzing industrial user's
wastewater.
   J.   Search Warrants: If the city pretreatment staff has been refused access
to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter or that there is a need to inspect as part of a routine inspection
program of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the
superintendent shall seek issuance of a search and/or seizure warrant from the
magistrate division of the district court. Such warrant shall be served at
reasonable hours by the superintendent in the company of a uniformed police
officer of the city of Weiser.
   K.   Confidential Information: Information and data furnished to the city
with respect to the nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the
public without restriction unless the discharger specifically requests and is
able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information of the
discharger.
      1.   Information accepted by the city as confidential shall not be
transmitted to the general public by the city until, and unless, a ten (10) day
notification is given to the discharger, but shall be made available
immediately upon request to governmental agencies for use related to the NPDES
program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the
person furnishing the report.
      2.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized
as confidential information and will be available to the public without
restriction.
   L.   Pretreatment Facilities: Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities shall be submitted to the city for review, and must be acceptable to
the city before construction of the facility. The review of such plans shall in
no way relieve the discharger from the responsibility of modifying its facility
as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions
of this chapter. Within a reasonable time after the completion of the
wastewater pretreatment facility, the discharger shall furnish its operation
and maintenance procedures for the city to review. Any subsequent, significant
changes in the pretreatment facility or its method of operation shall be
reported to and accepted by the city prior to the discharger's initiation of
the changes.
   M.   Hazardous Waste Notification: Any user that is discharging fifteen (15)
kilograms of hazardous wastes as defined in 40 CFR 261 (listed or
characteristic wastes) in a calendar month or any facility discharging any
amount of acutely hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33
(e) is required to provide a onetime notification in writing to the city, EPA
regional waste management division director, and to the Idaho state hazardous
materials bureau. Any existing user exempt from this notification shall comply
with the requirements contained herein within thirty (30) days of becoming
aware of a discharge of fifteen (15) kilograms of hazardous wastes in a
calendar month or the discharge of acutely hazardous wastes to the POTW.
Such notification shall include:
      1.   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261.
      2.   The EPA hazardous waste number; and
      3.   The type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other).
      4.   If an industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100)
kilograms of such wastes per calendar month to the sewer system, the
notification shall also contain the following information to the extent it is
known or readily available to the industrial user:
         a.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         b.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste streams discharged during that calendar month; and
         c.   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste streams
expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
These notification requirements do not apply to pollutants already reported
under self-monitoring requirements. Whenever the EPA publishes final rules
identifying hazardous wastes or new characteristics of hazardous waste, a use
shall notify the city of the discharge of such a substance within ninety (90)
days of the effective date of such regulations. In the case of any notification
made under subsection M4 of this section, an industrial user shall certify that
it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes
generated to the degree it has determined to be economically practical. (Ord.
1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Inspection and Sampling: the Superintendent shall have the right to
enter the premises of any User to determine whether the User is complying with
all requirements of this chapter and any individual wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the Superintendent ready access to
all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   B.   Where a User has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises. The User shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that. upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to either
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   C.   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the User's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the User's operations.
   D.   The Superintendent may require the User to install monitoring equipment
as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the User at
its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated as per manufacture recommendations to ensure their accuracy.
   E.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be impacted and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the User at
the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the User.
   F.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the User's
premises shall be a violation of this section. (Ord. 1266, 4-10-2023)
7-6-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Emergency Suspension Of Service And Wastewater Discharge Permit: The
city may, without advance notice, order the suspension of the wastewater
treatment service to a discharger when it appears to the city that an actual or
threatened discharge:
      1.   Presents or threatens an imminent or substantial danger to the
health or welfare of persons, or substantial danger to the environment. Any
discharger notified by the city's suspension order shall immediately cease all
discharges. In the event of failure of the dischargers to comply with the
suspension order, the city is authorized to physically prevent the discharge
from entering the public owned sewerage collection system, and assess all costs
associated therewith to the discharger.
      2.   Threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or to violate
any pretreatment limits imposed by this chapter. Any discharger notified of the
city's suspension order shall immediately cease all discharges. In the event of
failure of the discharger to comply with the suspension order, the city may
commence judicial proceedings immediately thereafter to compel the discharger's
specific compliance with such order and/or to recover civil penalties. The city
shall reinstate the wastewater treatment service upon proof by the discharger
of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge or conditions creating the
threat as set forth above.
   B.   Termination Of Treatment Services: The city may terminate wastewater
treatment services to any discharger who violates any of the following
prohibitions. A discharger shall not:
      1.   Fail to factually report accurately the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      2.   Fail to report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics;
      3.   Refuse responsible access to the discharger's premises by
representatives of the city for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
      4.   Violate the provisions of this chapter, or any order of the city
with respect thereto.
   C.   Compliance Orders: When the superintendent finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible
for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a time
specified in the order. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time specified in the order, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring, and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a federal pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   D.   Compliance Schedule For Meeting Applicable Pretreatment Standards:
      1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
      2.   No increment referred to in subsection D1 of this section shall
exceed nine (9) months.
      3.   No later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to
the superintendent including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports.
   E.   Notices Of Violation: When the city finds that a user has violated (or
continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may serve that user a written notice of violation (NOV).
If required, within five (5) working days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the city. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the city to
take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
   F.   Consent Orders: The city may enter into consent orders, assurances of
voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with
any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period specified by the document. Use of a consent order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Cease And Desist Orders: When the superintendent finds that a user has
violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the
superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
      1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   H.   Show Cause Hearing: Where the violation of section
7-6-4 of this chapter is not corrected in adherence to compliance orders or any
other enforcement action in a timely manner, the city may order any discharger
which suffers or permits a violation of section
7-6-4 of this chapter to show cause before the city or its duly authorized
representative why the proposed service termination action should not be taken.
A written notice shall be served on the discharger by personal service, or
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, specifying the time and
place of a hearing to be held by the city or its designee regarding the
violation; the reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken; the proposed
enforcement action; and directing the discharger to show cause before the city
or its designee why the enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of
the hearing shall be served no less than ten (10) days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent, officer, or authorized representative of a
discharger. The proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the city,
which shall then enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged
violations of the discharger. Appeal of such orders may be taken by the
discharger in accordance with applicable local or state law.
   A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the user.
   I.   Judicial Proceedings: Following the entry of any order by the city with
respect to the violation by a discharger of subsection B of this section, the
city may commence in an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in
the appropriate local court.
   J.   Annual Publication: An annual publication of all SIUs in significant
noncompliance (SAC) shall be made in the largest daily newspaper published in
the city. This publication will summarize the enforcement actions taken against
dischargers which have had a pattern of noncompliance during the previous
twelve (12) months. For the purpose of this provision, a user is in SAC if its
violation(s) meets one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Wastewater Discharge Violations: Chronic violations of wastewater
discharge limits, defined here as those in which sixty six percent (66%) or
more of wastewater measurements taken during a six (6) month period exceed the
daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant parameter by any
amount;
      2.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violations: Technical review
criteria violations, defined here as those in which thirty three percent (33%)
or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter during a
six (6) month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily maximum limit
multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      3.   Other Discharges: Any other discharge violation that the city
believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of city
personnel or the general public);
      4.   Imminent Endangerment: Any discharge of pollutants that has caused
imminent endangerment to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in
the city's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
      5.   Compliance Schedule: Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the
scheduled date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater
discharge permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
      6.   Reports Required: Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after
the due date, any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports,
reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      7.   Noncompliance: Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      8.   Other Violations: Any other violation(s) which the city determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
   K.   Right Of Appeal: Any discharger or any interested party shall have the
right to request, in writing, an interpretation or ruling by the city on any
matter covered by this chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt, written
reply. In the event that such inquiry is by a discharger and deals with matters
of performance or compliance with this chapter for which enforcement activity
relating to an alleged violation is the subject, receipt of a discharger's
request shall not stay enforcement proceedings pending. Appeal of any final
judicial order entered pursuant to this chapter may be taken in accordance with
the local and state law.
   L.   Operating Upsets: For the purpose of this section, "upset" means an
exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities lack of preventative maintenance,
or careless or improper operation.
      1.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection L2 of this section are met.
      2.   A user who wishes to establish an affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and that the user can identify the cause(s) of
the upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the city
within twenty four (24) hours becoming aware of the upset (if this information
is submitted orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days):
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent occurrence of the noncompliance.
      3.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      4.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards.
      5.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with applicable pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the treatment
facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This
requirement applies to the situation where, among other things, the primary
source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   M.   Falsifying Information: Any person who knowingly makes a false
statement, representation, or certification in any application, record, report,
plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter; or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall (in addition to
civil and/or criminal penalties provided by state law) be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be prosecuted and punished by fines and/or imprisonment.
   N.   Injunctive Relief: When the superintendent finds a user has violated
(or continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the superintendent may petition the third district court through
the city's attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The city may also seek such other action as
is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement
imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The city may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Administrative Penalties: Any discharger who violates an order of the
city, or who fails to comply with any provision of this chapter, or any
regulations, rules, or permits of the city, issued pursuant to this chapter,
shall be liable to the city for an administrative penalty.
      1.   The amount of such administrative penalty shall be not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per violation nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day upon which a violation occurs or
continues shall constitute a separate violation. In the case of a monthly or
other long term average discharge limit, the penalties shall accrue for each
day during the period of the violation. The superintendent is authorized to
levy fines and penalties. The superintendent shall have authority to suspend up
to eighty percent (80%) of an administrative penalty at his discretion.
   In determining the amount of the administrative penalty the superintendent
shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited
to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
   B.   Civil Penalties: Any discharger who violates an order of the city, or
who fails to comply with any provision of this chapter, or any regulations,
rules or permits of the city, issued pursuant to this chapter, shall be liable
to the city for a civil penalty.
      1.   The amount of such civil penalty shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day upon which a violation occurs or
continues shall constitute a separate violation. In the case of a monthly or
other long term average discharge limit, the penalties shall accrue for each
day during the period of the violation.
      2.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
      3.   The city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
   C.   Appeals: Users desiring to dispute such penalty must file a written
request for the city to reconsider the penalty along with full payment of the
penalty within fifteen (15) days of being notified of the penalty. Where a
request has merit, the city shall convene a hearing with the board of sewer
appraisers on the matter within fifteen (15) days of receiving the request from
the user. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The city may
add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices
and order, to the penalty.
   D.   Issuance: Issuance of an administrative or civil penalty shall not be a
bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   E.   Recovery Of Costs Incurred By The City: Any discharger violating any of
the provisions of this chapter who discharges or causes a discharge producing a
deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the city's wastewater
disposal system shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss, damage
caused by such violation of discharge. The city shall, by order, bill the
discharger for the cost incurred by the city for any cleaning, repair, or
replacement work caused by the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay the
assessed costs shall constitute a violation enforceable under the provisions of
section
7-6-6 of this chapter.
   F.   General Criminal Penalties: Any user who knowingly violates any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of no more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
offense or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months per offense or by both
such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999; amd. Ord. 1266, 4-10-2023)
7-6-10: RECORDS RETENTION:
All dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve, for no less
than three (3) years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of a discharger in
connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matter which are
the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement of litigation
activities brought by the city pursuant hereto shall be retained preserved by
the discharger until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods
of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired. (Ord. 1090, 8-
24-1999)
7-6-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, paragraph, word or section of this chapter is invalidated by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and
effect. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-12: NONLIABILITY:
   A.   It is expressly the purposes of the chapter to provide for and promote
the health, safety and welfare of the general public. It is not the intent of
this chapter to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular class
or group or persons who will or should be especially protected or benefited by
the terms of this chapter.
   B.   It is the specific intent of this chapter to place the obligation of
complying with these regulations upon the applicant or discharger and no
provision nor any term used in this chapter is intended to impose any duty
whatsoever upon the city or any of its officers, employees or agents except as
provided under the act or other related statutes of the United States or the
state of Idaho.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to be nor shall be
construed to create or form the basis for any tort liability on the part of the
city or its officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting
from failure of an applicant or discharger to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, or by reason or in consequence of any inspection, notice, order,
certificate, permission or approval authorized or issued or done in connection
with the implementation or enforcement of this chapter or inaction on the part
of the city related in any manner to the implementation or the enforcement of
this chapter by its officers, employees or agents. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
7-6-13: CONFLICTS:
All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or conflicting
with any part of this chapter, are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. 1090, 8-24-1999)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CEMETERY
(Rep. by Ord. 1234, 7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Airport Named
8-2-2: Airport Manager, Other Employees
8-2-3: Rules And Regulations
8-2-4: Standard Traffic Pattern Adopted
8-2-5: Commercial Use Of Airport
8-2-1: AIRPORT NAMED:
There is now owned by the city approximately one hundred forty five (145) acres
of land located in the north one-half (1/2) of section 17, Township 10 North,
Range 5 West of B.M., on which said land the city has constructed an airport,
and it is hereby ordained that the name of such airport shall and is hereby
declared to be the Weiser Municipal Airport. (Ord. 503, 1-6-1945)
8-2-2: AIRPORT MANAGER, OTHER EMPLOYEES:
The office of airport manager is hereby created, and the mayor is hereby
empowered to appoint said manager and such other employees as the mayor and
council shall determine to be necessary or desirable. Such manager and other
employees shall receive compensation only as and when fixed by the council and
in such amounts as the council shall determine. They shall perform such duties,
respectively, as the mayor and council shall direct or require and/or that may
be fixed by the rules and regulations governing the airport. Such manager and
employees shall hold office during the pleasure of the mayor and council. (Ord.
503, 1-6-1945; amd. 1987 Code)
8-2-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
It is hereby declared to be necessary to have rules and regulations governing
the use of the airport and that they be subject to change or to be added to
from time to time as conditions may require, and the mayor and council are
hereby empowered by resolution to adopt such rules and regulations and alter,
change or add to the same as conditions may require, and when so adopted,
altered, changed or added to by resolution, that such procedure shall be as
effective as though by ordinance. (Ord. 503, 1-6-1945)
8-2-4: STANDARD TRAFFIC PATTERN ADOPTED:
   A.   "Advisory Circular, Department Of Transportation, Federal Aviation
Administration, AC No. 90-66, Dated February 1975, Subject: Recommended
Standard Traffic Patterns For Airplane Operation At Uncontrolled Airports" is
hereby approved and adopted for all airplane operations at the airport operated
jointly by the county and the city.
   B.   A copy of said circular shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
office at said airport. (Ord. 855, 3-22-1976; amd. 1987 Code)
8-2-5: COMMERCIAL USE OF AIRPORT:
   A.   License Requirements: Within thirty (30) days of the date of passage of
this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to use the Weiser airport or
airport facilities for commercial purposes without having first obtained a
license therefor.
   B.   Commercial Purposes Defined: "Commercial purposes" are hereby defined
as the use of the airport for aerial applicator services, flight instruction
services, charter flight services and airplane mechanical services.
   C.   Application For License: Application for license shall be in writing,
signed and sworn to by the applicant and upon application forms furnished by
the city clerk. Such application shall be filed by the clerk and presented by
the mayor and council at the next scheduled meeting of the council for their
approval, rejection or further consideration.
   D.   License Fee:
      1.   A limited use license shall be granted for short time usage based on
a fee established by the Weiser city council by resolution, payable in advance.
The license shall permit the licensee to operate on the Weiser airport facility
from January 1 through December 31 of the year of issue.
      2.   The amount of the license fee imposed is subject to change uniformly
for all commercial purposes by resolution of the Weiser city council.
   E.   Issuance Of License: Upon filing the application for a license and upon
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall upon approval of the
council issue to the applicant a license to use the Weiser city airport
facilities for commercial purposes for the calendar year requested.
   F.   Additional Fees; Use Of Tie Downs:
      1.   Tie Down Fees: Any person using the Weiser airport tie down
facilities shall be required to pay to the Weiser airport manager a fee
established by resolution of the Weiser city council, payable in advance, for
tie down privileges.
      2.   Use Of Tie Downs: Unauthorized tie downs on the Weiser airport
facilities are prohibited; provided further, it shall be unlawful for any
inoperable and/or unairworthy aircraft to use city tie downs for any period of
time exceeding sixty (60) days.
      3.   Hangar Rental And Ground Lease:
         a.   Any person leasing a portion of the Weiser airport facilities for
the purpose of constructing a private hangar thereon shall pay a fee
established by resolution of the Weiser city council. Said fee shall be paid to
the airport manager, who shall turn all funds over to the city clerk monthly,
by the tenth of the month following for which fees have been collected.
         b.   Any person parking or storing a plane in the existing city
hangars shall pay a fee established by resolution of the Weiser city council
per plane for hangar space rental. Said hangar rental fees shall be paid to the
airport manager on the first day of the month for which this space is rented,
and all said hangar fees shall be paid by the airport manager to the Weiser
city clerk by the tenth day of the month for which the fees have been
collected.
         c.   Fair market rental rates as determined by resolution of the
Weiser city council shall be charged for land rental for nonagricultural,
commercial use on the Weiser airport facilities. Agricultural land shall be
leased at terms approved by the city council.
   G.   Use Of Funds Collected: All monies collected for license fees, tie down
fees, and land rental shall go into the city general fund for use and operation
of the Weiser airport.
   H.   Hazardous Chemicals Prohibited:
      1.   The washdown of aircraft, its tankage or spraying apparatus of
residual agricultural chemicals declared to be hazardous materials by the
United States environmental protection agency is prohibited on airport
property.
      2.   Operators handling, loading or unloading chemicals declared to be
hazardous by the United States environmental protection agency shall be
strictly liable for any spillage or contamination on airport property and for
the cost of cleanup of such contamination. The operator shall notify the
airport manager of any spillage or contamination on any airport property and
shall immediately clean up and remove the contamination.
   I.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provisions of this section or
fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished for such violation by a fine of up to three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or a jail sentence up to ninety (90) days or by both
such fine and jail sentence. (Ord. 904, 9-8-1980; amd. Ord. 967, 8-31-1987;
Ord. 1222, 3-14-2011; Ord. 1257, 5-5-2021)
CHAPTER 3
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Lug Wheels Prohibited
8-3-2: Running Water; Pipe Required
8-3-3: Pipes To Be Maintained By Owner
8-3-4: Street Grades; Curb Lines
8-3-5: Construction And Repair Of Sidewalks
8-3-6: Industrial, Residential And Commercial Property
8-3-7: Standard Specifications
8-3-8: Failure To Conform; Sidewalk Construction
8-3-9: Clearing Sidewalks And Parkings
8-3-10: Obstructions On Streets, Sidewalks And Parkings
8-3-11: Grass And Trees On Parkings
8-3-12: Parking Defined
8-3-13: Parking Area In Public Streets
8-3-14: Designation Of Parking; Automobiles
8-3-15: Temporary Obstructions; Permit Required
8-3-16: Horses Prohibited On Sidewalks
8-3-17: Digging In City Streets
8-3-1: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
Every person is hereby prohibited from operating upon any paved, crushed rock
and oiled or oil surfaced street any road wheels with cleats, ridge bolts or
other projections of metal, wood or other hard substance, other than rubber,
which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire unless
such paved, hard surfaced or oiled street or alley is protected by putting down
solid planks or other suitable material or by attachment to the wheels so as to
prevent such vehicle from damaging any such street or alley; provided, however,
there is excepted from the prohibitions of this section tractors or other
vehicles that have been inspected by the city superintendent and by him
certified as having a tread that is not likely to do injury to hard surfaced or
paved streets or alleys and a permit is issued by the city superintendent to
operate such inspected vehicle on, over or along any of the streets or alleys
of the city. (Ord. 496, 6-8-1942)
8-3-2: RUNNING WATER; PIPE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted, water
for irrigation purposes or wastewater across, upon or within any street or
alley in the city, in an open ditch or by any other means than by a pipeline or
pipelines laid underground, the upper side of which pipe shall be at least
eighteen inches (18") from the surface of the earth in which it is laid and
embedded; the said pipe to be of some suitable watertight material to be
designated by the council and the manner of laying the said pipeline or
pipelines to be supervised by the city superintendent.
Before laying any pipe for the purpose and as provided in this section, the
person desiring to lay or construct such pipeline shall first apply to the
council and receive permission to lay and construct the same and shall state in
such application the kind of pipe desired to be laid and the points at which
the same will intersect each street and alley. (Ord. 306, 9-8-1921)
8-3-3: PIPES TO BE MAINTAINED BY OWNER:
When any pipeline shall be constructed across any street or alley in the city,
it shall thereafter be the duty of the owner thereof to keep and maintain the
same in first class repair, and in the event that any such owner shall fail,
refuse or neglect to repair such pipeline or diligently prosecute to a finish
the work of repairing the same upon receiving twenty four (24) hours' notice
served by any police officer of the city upon any one or more of the owners or
joint owners of such pipeline or upon their agent or agents, then and in that
event such pipeline shall be immediately discontinued until the same is placed
in good repair, and the city superintendent shall shut off the water from such
pipeline and keep it shut off until the said pipeline is repaired and approved
by the city superintendent. (Ord. 306, 8-8-1921; amd. 1987 Code)
8-3-4: STREET GRADES; CURB LINES:
A uniform grade and system of grades and drainage is hereby established on the
streets of the city as specified and placed on file in the office of the city
superintendent, said grades being established at the crown of the streets at
the intersection of the centerline of the street, and the datum from all
elevations and grades are established refer to the triangle. (Ord. 257, 2-27-
1914; amd. 1987 Code)
All curbs for sidewalks in the city shall be placed and built on the curb line
as established for the various streets of the city. (Ord. 148, 5-10-1907)
8-3-5: CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   The property owners of the city shall be responsible for the
construction and repair of all sidewalks, curbs and parking between curbs
abutting upon their respective properties, and all corner lots, such
responsibility shall include the sidewalks, curb and parking to the
intersection of the curb lines extended. As used in this chapter, curb shall
include both curb and gutter. (Ord. 1082, 6-14-1999)
   B.   The council may, whenever it is deemed necessary or convenient by an
order duly made and entered in its minutes, order the construction of a
sidewalk or sidewalks, parking or curb on any street or streets of the city,
and it may in like manner order the alteration or repair of any sidewalk or
sidewalks, parking or curb now or hereafter constructed.
   C.   Whenever the construction or repair of any sidewalk is ordered, the
order therefor shall state the material of which the same shall be constructed
or repaired and the date on or before which the same shall be completed, and in
cases of new sidewalks to be constructed, the order shall contain complete
specifications thereof as to width, grade and position. (Ord. 54, 11-9-1901;
amd. Ord. 535, 2-7-1946; Ord. 581, 4-29-1948)
   D.   Whenever any sidewalk is ordered constructed or repaired, the clerk
shall prepare a notice to be served upon the owner of the property abutting
upon the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired, directing such owner to
construct or repair such sidewalk within thirty (30) days from the date of the
service of such notice upon him, and report the completion to the building
inspector. Such notice shall be served by the chief of police or any other
policeman of the city by delivering a written copy thereof to the owner of the
abutting property or his agent if the owner or agent can be found within the
city, but if not to be found within the city, then if his place of residence be
known, by mailing a copy of the notice to such owner at his place of residence,
but if such owner or agent cannot be found within the city and his place of
residence is not known, such notice shall be served by the publication of a
copy thereof for two (2) successive weeks and in three (3) issues of a weekly
newspaper published in Weiser, Idaho.
   E.   The council may, for good cause shown, extend the time within which any
sidewalk may be constructed or repaired, but no such extension of time shall
exceed thirty (30) days. (Ord. 54, 11-9-1901; amd. Ord. 535, 2-7-1946; Ord.
581, 4-29-1948; 1987 Code)
   F.   All sidewalks and curbs constructed within the corporate limits of the
city shall be constructed under the supervision of and subject to the
inspection of the building inspector and in conformity with the standard
specifications on file in his office, and the lines and grades laid out on the
ground by said building inspector. Stakes set by the building inspector shall
be preserved by the owner and the contractor doing the work. (Ord. 542, 2-7-
1946; amd. 1987 Code)
8-3-6: INDUSTRIAL, RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTY:
As a condition precedent to the issuance of a building permit for additions,
accessory buildings, and remodels which constitute sixty percent (60%) or more
of the square foot measurement of the existing structure or which cost sixty
percent (60%) or more of the present assessed value of the existing structure,
setting a modular home, or for new construction on all industrial, residential
and commercial property in the city where curb and gutter or sidewalk sections
have not been constructed or are in ill repair as determined by the building
inspector and are on that portion of the premises abutting on a public street,
the person desiring to obtain a building permit shall hereafter be required to
obtain a grade and line for the construction and/or repair of a curb and gutter
and sidewalk section along that portion of such property abutting the public
street and construction pursuant to said permit of any building for which said
permit is sought shall not commence until said curb and gutter and sidewalk
section shall have been constructed on the proper grade and line designated by
the building inspector and such concrete work shall be accomplished in
conformity with standard specifications of the city. Except that the
requirement to install sidewalk shall be waived where the existing structure
has been damaged by fire through no fault of the property owner and there is no
connecting sidewalk or sidewalk on adjacent property. Curb and gutter shall be
required even though the requirement for sidewalk will be waived. (Ord. 1206,
8-11-2008)
8-3-7: STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS:
Specifications for the repair or construction of all streets and sidewalks
shall be on file in the offices of the city superintendent and building
inspector and are hereby adopted by reference as fully as if set out at length
herein. All new or replaced sidewalks must have wheelchair ramps. (1971 Code;
amd. 1987 Code)
8-3-8: FAILURE TO CONFORM; SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
Where sidewalks or curbs have been constructed or repaired without conforming
to the requirements of this code and the standard specifications on file in the
office of the building inspector or when construction or repairs were not
completed after notice given as provided in subsection
8-3-5D of this chapter, said sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed or
repaired by the city and the expense thereof charged to the owner of the
abutting property. (1971 Code; amd. 1987 Code)
8-3-9: CLEARING SIDEWALKS AND PARKINGS:
   A.   It is hereby made the duty of the owner, tenant or occupant of the
premises abutting or adjoining any sidewalk in the city to keep such sidewalk
free and clear from snow and ice and to cut the weeds to the center of the
alley and in the street from the property line to curb line along or in front
of the abutting or adjoining premises. In the event of the failure of any such
owner, tenant or occupant to remove the snow and ice from any such sidewalk
within twenty four (24) hours after service upon any such owner, occupant or
tenant of notice to remove such snow and ice from any such walk or in the event
of the failure of any such owner or occupant to cut the weeds to the center of
the alley and in the street from property line to curb along or in front of the
abutting premises, within the time specified in the notice to be served upon
any such owner, tenant or occupant which such time for cutting weeds shall not
exceed ten (10) days, then the city may remove or cause to be removed any such
snow and ice from the sidewalk or cause to be cut the weeds in front of any
such abutting or adjoining premises where the owner, tenant or occupant has
failed to comply with the notice and the costs of removing such snow and ice by
the city or of cutting such weeds by the city shall be assessed against the
property abutting or adjoining any such sidewalk, street or alley as a special
tax, and such tax shall be levied by the city clerk certifying the same to the
county assessor or other proper county official having in charge the making up
of the assessment roll and such tax so certified shall be placed by such county
official on the assessment roll and collected in the same manner as other city
taxes.
   B.   Such notice to remove snow and ice or cut weeds as aforesaid may be
served by the chief of police or any police officer of the city or by anyone
designated by the mayor for that purpose, and the notice shall be in writing
and service may be made by delivering such notice to any such owner, tenant or
occupant personally or by leaving the same with someone over the age of
eighteen (18) years at the residence of any such owner, tenant or occupant, or
in the case there is no owner of the premises within the city and such premises
are not occupied or rented, then by sending such notice to the last known place
of address of the owner. (Ord. 246, 8-1-1913; amd. 1987 Code)
8-3-10: OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PARKINGS:
Streets, sidewalks and parkings lying within the city are hereby reserved for
public use and it shall hereafter be unlawful to place any non-motorized
obstruction thereon, other than utilities owned by the city or public utility
companies holding a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by
the Idaho public utility commission or planters and street signs erected by the
city or the state or parking meters or postal letter boxes, postal package
boxes and drinking fountains erected by the city or as hereinafter excepted in
section
8-3-15 of this chapter. The prohibition herein contained shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the maintenance of any obstruction division or an
attractive nuisance upon the sidewalks and parking within the city and shall
include the parking of all trailers, whether attached or unattached to a
motorized vehicle, including, but not limited to, semitruck trailers, camp
trailers, utility trailers and horse trailers upon the city streets and
sidewalks and parkings. (Ord. 885, 6-11-1979; amd. 1987 Code; Ord. 1258, 6-14-
2021)
8-3-11: GRASS AND TREES ON PARKINGS:
The prohibition set forth in section
8-3-10 of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the planting and
maintenance of lawns on parking strips and shall not be construed to compel the
removal of trees already planted except at the expense of the city. All future
plantings of trees in parking strips in the city shall be only of a variety
approved by the Weiser tree committee. (Ord. 1112, 12-19-2000)
8-3-12: PARKING DEFINED:
The term "parking" as used in this chapter shall mean that area of land lying
between a city street and a city sidewalk owned by the city as a part of the
dedicated right of way upon which street, parking and sidewalk have been
constructed and shall include any such area dedicated to such use where either
such street or sidewalk has not been constructed. (Ord. 704, 5-17-1962)
8-3-13: PARKING AREA IN PUBLIC STREETS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair or abridge the
right of the council to permit limited use of that portion of the public street
marked for the parking of automobiles for community purposes and events;
provided that such community purposes and events do not create a menace to the
free flow of traffic and are not attractive nuisances or inherently dangerous.
(Ord. 704, 5-17-1962)
8-3-14: DESIGNATION OF PARKING; AUTOMOBILES:
The prohibition contained in section
8-3-10 of this chapter shall not impair or abridge the right and power of the
council in the public interest to designate portions of "parking" as said term
is defined in section
8-3-12 of this chapter as areas for the parking of motor vehicles subject to
reasonable rules and regulations for the designation thereof for such purpose
when such purpose can be accomplished without destroying the use of such
parking for public utilities already installed therein. (Ord. 704, 5-17-1962)
8-3-15: TEMPORARY OBSTRUCTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Whenever any person desires to temporarily place an object or thing on or
otherwise obstruct the streets, sidewalk or parkings of the city, he shall
first apply to the chief of police of the city for a permit therefor. The chief
of police shall charge and receive for said permit, the sum of fifty cents
($0.50) for every three (3) day period, or part thereof, that said obstruction
exists. No such permit shall issue by the said chief of police unless the party
applying therefor first agrees in writing to indemnify the city against any and
all liability which may arise out of the placing of said obstruction by said
person. Further, no such permit shall issue if in the discretion of said chief
of police, the proposed obstruction will unreasonably obstruct the flow of
traffic, either pedestrian or motor vehicle, will be inherently dangerous to
life, limb or property, or which will unreasonably obstruct the ingress to or
egress from another person's property, or if said obstruction in the discretion
of the said chief of police is to remain for an unreasonable length of time.
The chief of police of the city shall regulate and supervise any such
obstructions to the end that said obstructions are not extended beyond the
authority granted by said permit, and if at any time said obstruction becomes
inherently dangerous or a nuisance, it shall be ordered removed by the chief of
police. (Ord. 726, 9-1-1964)
8-3-16: HORSES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride a horse or lead a horse on the Weiser city sidewalks. Any
person violating this prohibition shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a penalty of a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 930,
6-13-1983)
8-3-17: DIGGING IN CITY STREETS:
   A.   Digging or cutting of city streets, alleys or rights of way without a
permit is prohibited. Any digging, cutting or disruption shall be repaired at
the expense of the person causing the disruption according to the standards as
set forth in this section, except that the city shall at its expense supply and
install a strip of asphalt eighteen inches (18") in width along any new curb or
gutter repaired or constructed for an existing home. (Ord. 1144, 4-14-2003)
   B.   The filling, patching and resurfacing of cuts shall be as prescribed by
the city street foreman. The top eight inches (8") of fill shall be made with
three-fourths inch (3/4") road gravel. Trenches shall be filled in lifts of not
more than six inches (6") and shall be compacted to ninety five percent (95%)
of optimum compaction. Compaction shall be approved by the city street foreman
prior to resurfacing which shall be with materials approved by the foreman.
Repairs shall be completed within seven (7) days of cutting or digging unless
prior written permission is first obtained from the city street foreman. (Ord.
995, 9-9-1991)
   C.   A permit fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be paid for each cut or
place where a street or alley is disturbed. Except that no fee shall be charged
for a permit to install, repair, or remove curb, gutter, or sidewalk. (Ord.
1132, 8-12-2002)
   D.   Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a fine in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day
that each violation continues. (Ord. 995, 9-9-1991)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC TREES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose And Objectives
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: City Tree Committee
8-4-4: Private Tree Care
8-4-5: Public Tree Care
8-4-6: Regulations
8-4-7: Violations And Penalty
8-4-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
It is the intent of the city of Weiser to establish the Weiser tree committee
to provide direction in planting, preserving, protecting, and maintaining trees
within the city which enhance the quality of life of the community. (Ord. 1111,
12-19-2000)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
HAZARDOUS TREES: Public or private trees that create any unsafe situation for
persons using adjacent public property.
OBSTRUCTIVE TREES: Public or private trees that prevent appropriate passage or
safe vision on any public right of way.
PARK TREES: Trees or shrubs in public parks or open spaces owned by the city to
which the public has free access.
PRIVATE TREES: All trees other than public trees.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated
to, or deeded to the public for pedestrian or vehicular or other public use. It
includes, but is not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, access routes for
public utilities, and open public spaces.
PUBLIC TREES: Trees or shrubs situated in such a manner that over fifty percent
(50%) of the base or trunk is on public property or within a public right of
way.
STREET TREES: Trees or shrubs on land lying between private property lines on
all public rights of way within the city. (Ord. 1111, 12-19-2000)
8-4-3: CITY TREE COMMITTEE:
   A.   The city tree committee is hereby established for the city which shall
consist of five (5) members to be appointed by the mayor and approved by the
city council. The committee shall act in an advisory capacity on matters
involving public trees to the city council. The committee is authorized to seek
funding for projects as approved by the city council in accordance with the
city budgetary procedures. The committee will develop and implement educational
materials and programs addressing community forestry issues.
   B.   The term of the five (5) persons appointed by the mayor shall be three
(3) years except that the term of two (2) of the members appointed on the first
board shall be for one year and the term of two (2) members on the first board
shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the
term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term. Members will serve without compensation.
   C.   The tree committee shall meet as needed, but at least once a year to
review plans and practices for the coming year. The chair may call a meeting of
the committee as needed. The majority of the committee members must be present
for voting purposes.
   D.   The tree committee shall adopt a list of street trees approved for
planting on public rights of way. The list shall be filed with the Weiser city
clerk and all trees planted shall be of one of the varieties of the approved
list. (Ord. 1111, 12-19-2000)
8-4-4: PRIVATE TREE CARE:
Except under conditions stated in this section, the city will not dictate
policy for trees on private property. The tree committee will provide citizens
with education on proper tree planting and maintenance. The city may require
pruning or removal of any private trees that are judged to be hazardous or
obstructive. (Ord. 1111, 12-19-2000)
8-4-5: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The Weiser public works director will have jurisdiction to maintain public
trees. Public tree care management will be done in accordance with the American
National Standard for tree care operations as issued by the National Arborist
Association, Inc. (Ord. 1111, 12-19-2000)
8-4-6: REGULATIONS:
It shall be a civil violation subject to infraction penalties to do as follows:
   A.   To "top" or "head" a tree in such a way that the crown is removed or
severely cut back.
   B.   To cut down, destroy, or damage any public tree without permission of
the public works director.
   C.   To attach devices or signs to any public tree.
   D.   To dispose of or to apply any substance toxic to trees near or on any
public tree or on public property.
   E.   To damage any public tree as a result of construction or excavation.
   F.   To vandalize or deface any public tree.
   G.   To remove or damage any device whose purpose is to provide care or
support for any public tree.
   H.   To fail to remove branches or debris resulting from private or public
tree maintenance or natural disaster from any right of way.
   I.   To plant public trees:
      1.   Within four feet (4') of any building or structure.
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of fire hydrants or utility poles.
      3.   So as to lift existing curb, sidewalk, or asphalt when mature.
      4.   Within ten feet (10') of sewer or water line access.
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of stop or yield sign.
      6.   Within the site triangle of any public intersection, including both
streets and alleyways.
      7.   A tree other than a street tree approved by a tree committee on any
public right of way.
      8.   Trees whose maximum height will eventually interfere with overhead
power lines.
   J.   In addition to any other penalty, violators of this provision shall
replace any damaged or destroyed trees. (Ord. 1111, 12-19-2000)
8-4-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
Violations of provisions of this chapter shall be punished as infractions
pursuant to Idaho infraction rule 9(19). (Ord. 1111, 12-19-2000)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Obstructing Railroad Crossings
8-5-2: Speed Of Trains
8-5-1: OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any railroad or railway company or corporation
operating a railroad through or into the city or crossing any of its streets or
public ways as well as the conductor, brakeman, flagman or other employees in
charge of and/or working on said train of cars at the time, to cause or allow
any locomotive engine, car or cars or train of cars to stop on or remain upon
or across any street or public way or part of public street or public way or
railroad crossing within the corporate limits of the city for longer than a
period of ten (10) minutes at any one time. It shall be the duty of said
railroad company and of the conductor and each and every one of the other
employees of said railroad company working on said train of cars, before said
obstruction shall exceed ten (10) minutes, to either remove said train from
across the street or public way it is so blocking, in whole or part, or cause
such car or train as may be on or near any such obstructed crossing to be
uncoupled and the portion of the train blocking any part of such public street
or public way to be removed therefrom so that a free crossing for the entire
width of said street may be had by all persons or traffic desiring to cross
such obstructed street. (Ord. 489, 11-7-1940; amd. Ord. 590, 2-3-1949)
8-5-2: SPEED OF TRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any train or other railroad facility to be operated
within the corporate limits of the city at a speed in excess of sixty (60)
miles per hour, and for violations thereof, the operator shall be subject to
punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 839, 6-9-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY UTILITIES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Rates; Charges
8-6-2: Supervision
8-6-3: Tampering With Equipment
8-6-4: Disputed Bills; Test Of Meters
8-6-5: General Regulations
8-6-6: City Water Users
8-6-7: Water Users Outside Corporate Limits Of The City
8-6-8: Water, Restricted Use Or Rationing
8-6-8-1: Recommendation
8-6-8-2: Council To Approve Recommendation By Resolution
8-6-8-3: Penalties
8-6-8-4: Alternate Day Irrigation Use
8-6-8-5: Penalty; Irrigation Use
8-6-9: Regulations For Installation Of Electric Meters
8-6-10: City Thawing Of Meters
8-6-11: User Using False Facts
8-6-1: RATES; CHARGES:
   A.   Adopted: It is hereby declared and past experience has demonstrated
that the rates to consumers for water, sewer, garbage and electric service is a
subject of frequent change of price of service and manner of payment for
service, amount of meter deposits and whether or not penalties should be
attached for failure to pay service charges by fixed dates, and it is declared
policy of the mayor and council that such schedules, amount of meter deposits
and provisions for penalties should be elastic in the sense that they may be
changed without the necessity of enacting a new ordinance, and it is hereby
ordained that the schedule of rates for water and electric service, amount of
meter deposits and penalties shall hereafter be such as may from time to time
be adopted by the council by motion or resolution. Until a different schedule
is established by the council, the charges of the city to its customers for
electric service shall be the same as is now charged by the Idaho Power Company
to its customers for electric service in towns or cities of similar size in the
territory in which Weiser is situated. The rate schedule for water, sewer and
garbage service, until a new schedule is adopted by the council, shall be the
same as is now in effect and provided in the schedule contained on customers’
bills that are now being used in mailing to customers their monthly bills.
   B.   Paying Of Bills: Bills for water, sewer, garbage and electric service
shall be rendered by and paid to the city clerk in the manner determined by the
mayor and council.
   C.   Utility Bills: The city utility bills will be billed in one (1) billing
cycle. The city utility bills will be mailed on the thirtieth day of each
month, they will be delinquent on the fifteenth day of the following month. Any
payments made after the fifteenth day of the month, shall incur a late fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00). If the fifteenth falls on a holiday or weekend, the
payment must be made by the following business day. Any utilities not paid in
full by eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. on the twenty-third day will be disconnected.
If the twenty-third falls on a holiday or weekend utilities would be
disconnected the following business day.
      Delinquent notices and shutoff tags will no longer be sent out by the
city.
      If utilities are disconnected, there will be a disconnect fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) and a reconnect fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). The current
bill and any fees must be paid in full before the service will be reconnected.
There is an after-hours fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) between the hours of
five o’clock (5:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M., and on weekends and
holidays.
      The city clerk may, at his/her discretion, extend the payment due date
under special situations. These situations may include serious injury, illness
or death in the immediate family.
      There will be a five-dollar ($5.00) charge for this extension, in
addition to the fifteen dollar ($15.00) late penalty. This extension will be a
written agreement. No verbal agreements will be accepted.
      If an owner/occupant turns on or tampers with an electric/water meter
after service has been shut off by the city, the service will not be restored
until a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) has been paid in full by the owner or
occupant of the property, in addition to any other late, disconnect and
reconnect fees.
      When there is one water meter for a multi-family house or multiple units,
the water and sewer billing shall be in the real property owner’s name. The
real property owner is responsible for payment. Default in payment will result
in the water being shut off at the meter for all building units.
      Should a meter fail for any reason, the city will charge an amount based
upon the history of usage of the meter and customer. The city clerk shall
determine the amounts to be charged.
      Where there is a specific request to have a meter turned on and off for
testing or any other reason, there shall be a service charge of twenty dollars
($20.00) paid before the service can be provided. No charge if there is an
emergency request but shall be approved by the mayor or clerk coordinator.
      Service deposits shall be paid as follows:
      1.   A one-hundred-dollar ($100.00) service deposit shall be paid by each
residential user of city services. After one year of good pay history, the
customer may request one-half (1/2) of their service deposit applied to their
utility bill, by signing an application.
      2.   Each landlord shall pay a service deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Each small business shall pay a service deposit of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
      4.   Each large business shall pay a service deposit from two hundred
dollars to five hundred dollars ($200.00 - $500.00), depending upon the extent
of use of the city’s utilities.
      5.   Any customer having a poor payment record with the city shall pay a
service deposit of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) (nonrefundable until off
service). Service shall not be resumed until the delinquent bill has been fully
paid and a new service deposit collected.
      6.   Any customer whose check is returned for nonsufficient funds will be
charged twenty- five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 841, 2-10-1975; amd. 1987 Code;
Res. 526, 10-12-2004; Ord. 1270, 8-12-2024)
8-6-2: SUPERVISION:
The city superintendent shall have general supervision of the city utilities,
subject at all times to the control of the mayor and council, and he shall make
such reports from time to time and perform such other duties and services as
the mayor and/or council shall direct. (Ord. 491, 5-20-1941)
8-6-3: TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT:
It is hereby unlawful for any person except the city superintendent and
employees under his charge or direction to tamper with or connect or disconnect
any water or light service connections to consumers or in any way interfere or
molest any part of the water, sewer and electric distribution service. The
mayor and council may, from time to time by motion or resolution, adopt rules
and regulations for connecting and disconnecting service to customers for
failure to pay bills each month by stated times as fixed in such rules and
regulations adopted by the mayor and council from time to time. It shall be
unlawful for any person, other than an authorized officer or employee of the
city, after service has been disconnected to any consumer of water, sewer or
electric service, to turn the same back on. (Ord. 391, 5-20-1941)
8-6-4: DISPUTED BILLS; TEST OF METERS:
A dispute by a customer as to the correctness of any bill rendered shall not
justify the customer in refusing to pay the bill when the same becomes due, but
if the customer does question a bill, then he shall protest to the city clerk,
giving his reasons for questioning the amount of the bill, and then the city
superintendent shall cause investigation to be made, and if it is determined
that the meter measuring the service is not accurate, then proper adjustment
shall be made and credit or refund made to the customer, but no such dispute
shall justify the customer in connecting up a service that has been
disconnected for failure to pay a bill when due. When complaint is made that
any meter is not correctly measuring the amount of water or electricity
delivered to the consumer, then investigation shall be made and if, in the
opinion of the city superintendent, a test of the meter should be made, then he
shall cause the same to be tested if he finds that circumstances seem to
warrant or justify such a test. (Ord. 491, 5-20-1941)
8-6-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations On File: Unless otherwise provided in this code,
rules and regulations for the conduct of the several municipally owned
utilities of the city shall be on file with the respective departments and
shall at all times be approved by the mayor and council.
   B.   Application: Each applicant for the use of the water or sewer systems
or the electrical distribution system shall make application to the city
superintendent or other designated official, and said application, upon
approval thereof, shall be deemed a contract with the city whereby the
applicant agrees to comply with all rules and regulations with respect to such
service. (1971 Code)
   C.   Obligations And Liability: The city shall not be liable for any act,
failure or omission caused directly or indirectly by fire, flood, accident or
other casualty, sabotage, strike, litigation, action of any governmental
authority, acts of God or the public enemy or causes beyond the city's control.
Without limitation by the preceding enumeration, the obligation of the city
shall be limited to the use of reasonable diligence in providing sufficient and
continuous service and having used reasonable diligence, the city shall not be
liable to the customer for failure or interruption of service but will endeavor
to remove the cause thereof with reasonable diligence.
   D.   Shutdown For Repairs: In the operation and maintenance of its system
for the purpose of making necessary repairs or changes in its transmission or
distribution facilities or to avoid the possibility of damage to the city's
property or to persons or property of others, the city may suspend delivery of
service for such periods as may be necessary, and the city shall not be liable
for any damage or claim of damage attributable to any temporary discontinuance
of service from such causes.
   E.   Phase Rotation: The initial starting of motor installations is not
under the control of the city and, therefore, no responsibility for damage due
to incorrect rotation shall rest upon the city. The city will exercise due care
and diligence to maintain the direction of phase rotation constant on
customer's services after it has been once established. This, however, is
impossible to guarantee, and all customers operating installations where
reversal of rotation will cause damage must protect their installations with
suitable phase relay and circuit breaker, and the city shall be in no way
responsible for damage to customer's installation due to reversed rotation.
Auto starters and other suitable starting devices must be provided by the
customer with all motors above five (5) horsepower. All motors starting on
other than light load must be provided with suitable device or be of suitable
type to limit the starting current. No voltage release is recommended as a part
of starting device for a proper protection of customer's equipment. The
customers shall protect their installations of 3-phase equipment against the
failure of a phase and the city shall not be held liable or responsible for any
damage or claims of damage because of a failure of a single phase in a 3-phase
circuit.
   F.   Temporary Suspension Of Demand: When the customer is obliged
temporarily to suspend operation due to strike, action of any governmental
authority, acts of God or the public enemy, the customer may procure a
proration of the monthly bill based upon the period of such suspension by
giving immediate written notice to the city, but in no event shall such bill be
prorated or reduced to an amount less than the minimum monthly bill as provided
in the rate schedule; provided, that no such suspension shall affect the
customer's obligation under any term minimum guarantees based upon special
investment of the city to serve the customer. (Ord. 588, 12-16-1943)
8-6-6: CITY WATER USERS:
The rates for use of water supplied by the city water system shall be adopted
by resolution of the council of the city of Weiser, Idaho, and based upon the
following factors:
   A.   Base Rate: The base rate shall be based upon the fixed costs for the
infrastructure, plant, water lines, construction and debt costs and maintenance
of the city water system.
   B.   Volume Charge: A volume charge shall be based upon the operation costs
of the city water system and shall be billed at a rate based upon the cubic
foot of water delivered.
   C.   Notice Published: Notice of the adoption of the resolution establishing
water fees shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city of Weiser setting forth the fees and the effective date of the resolution.
Should the proposed fees exceed one hundred five percent (105%) of the present
water user fee, then notice of the proposed fee increase shall be published not
less than fourteen (14) days prior to a public hearing at which time public
comment will be received prior to consideration of the resolution to increase
water fees. (Ord. 1170, 6-13-2005)
8-6-7: WATER USERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY:
   A.   The rate applied to water users outside the corporate limits of the
city who nevertheless utilize the city water system and who reside in single-
family dwelling units, the rate of such water use shall be as follows:
      1.   There shall be a surcharge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per billing
period.
      2.   In addition thereto, the users under this section shall be charged
the metered amount as hereinabove described.
   B.   The rate for users of water provided by the city water system and
residing outside the corporate limits of the city in multiple-family unit
dwellings or multiple unit attachments to the city water system shall be:
      1.   A surcharge in the amount of thirty dollars ($30.00) per billing
period.
      2.   In addition thereto, the users under this section shall be charged
the metered amount as above described to be computed by dividing the number of
occupied dwellings into the total meter amount with charges to be determined by
the above schedule.
   C.   For users of the city water system operating a commercial business
outside of the corporate limits of the city, the rate for the use of such water
shall be as follows: a surcharge of thirty dollars ($30.00) and in addition
thereto, the above described schedule shall apply. (Ord. 1027, 9-12-1994)
8-6-8: WATER, RESTRICTED USE OR RATIONING:
8-6-8-1: RECOMMENDATION:
Whenever the supply of water available to the city through the municipal water
system is, in the opinion of the public services committee appointed as
provided in section
1-7-5 of this code, inadequate to meet all of the requirements for water of the
city furnished by its water system, by reason of drought, breakdown in the city
water system, malfunctioning thereof or for any other reason, or whenever so
requested by the mayor or city council, the public services committee shall
formulate and recommend to the city council and the mayor a plan for
restricting the use of water or limiting the use thereof by category of users
or in such other form as the committee may consider appropriate, such plan to
remain in effect for the duration of such shortage of water. (Ord. 867, 7-11-
1977; amd. 1987 Code)
8-6-8-2: COUNCIL TO APPROVE RECOMMENDATION BY RESOLUTION:
Upon receiving the report of such standing committee, the mayor and council
shall promptly consider the same and by resolution shall approve or reject said
report; and if they approve the same, they may make such changes, corrections
or additions thereto as they consider appropriate. Any such resolution of the
city council approved by the mayor (unless it is a resolution of complete
disapproval of the standing committee's report), shall be published once in the
"Weiser Signal American", a newspaper of general circulation in the city. (Ord.
867, 7-11-1977; amd. 1987 Code)
8-6-8-3: PENALTIES:
On such resolution becoming effective, all persons who are users of water from
the city water system shall be legally obligated to obey and comply with the
provisions thereof and failure to do so will constitute a misdemeanor
punishable by penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 867, 7-11-1977; amd. 1987 Code)
8-6-8-4: ALTERNATE DAY IRRIGATION USE:
The use of city water for sprinkling or irrigation purposes shall be done on
alternate days. Residents whose residence address ends in an even number, 0, 2,
4, etc., shall water on even numbered days of the month and those whose
residence address ends in an odd number, 1, 3, 5, etc., shall water on odd
numbered days of the month. A day shall commence at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and terminate at eleven fifty nine (11:59) P.M. for purposes of this
section. (Ord. 973, 7-11-1988)
8-6-8-5: PENALTY; IRRIGATION USE:
It shall be unlawful to use city water for sprinkling or irrigation other than
as provided by section
8-6-8-4 of this chapter. Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor and
punishable by a fine up to one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day for which
the violation continues shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 973, 7-
11-1988)
8-6-9: REGULATIONS FOR INSTALLATION OF ELECTRIC METERS:
   A.   In the construction, alteration, remodeling or repair of all houses and
other buildings within the city, the electrical meter shall be left on the
outside wall and in the clear for meter reading.
      1.   Meters shall be located on the outside of the building. Only socket
type meters shall be used.
      2.   Meters shall be mounted five feet six inches (5'6") from the ground
or walkway level. If structural details of the wall prevent this distance,
meters may be mounted not less than five feet (5') nor more than six feet (6')
from the ground.
      3.   Conductors from service to meter must be in conduit.
      4.   A suitable entrance cap shall be used on the upper end of conduit
extending above the meter base and must not be more than two feet (2') from
point of attachment of service wires. Entrance cap shall be above point of
service attachment (NEC 230-51 [c]). Eighteen inches (18") of service entrance
conductor shall be available from entrance cap for a drip loop.
      5.   All meters on single residences shall be ahead of all fuses,
switches or other protective or disconnecting devices.
      6.   Service entrance shall be placed on that side of a building or
structure to which the city's service is most readily available from existing
lines.
      7.   The neutral wire of 3-wire systems or grounded wire of a 2-wire
system shall be connected to the ground stud of the meter base.
      8.   Service clearance from ground, zero to six hundred (600) volts.
Ten feet (10') above finished grade, sidewalks or from any platform or
projection from which they might be reached;
Twelve feet (12') over residential driveways and commercial areas such as
parking lots and drive-in establishments not subject to truck traffic;
Fifteen feet (15') over commercial areas, parking lots, agricultural or other
areas subject to truck traffic;
Eighteen feet (18') over public streets, alleys, roads and driveways on other
than residential property.
   B.   All manufactured buildings must meet requirements set forth herein.
   C.   The city's present rate schedules are based on the cost for overhead
service. Due to cost for trenching, backfilling, underground cable and
connectors, special transformers, pads and junction boxes, there is more
expense for underground than for overhead service; therefore, the customer
desiring underground service shall pay the difference in cost between overhead
and underground service.
   D.   In cases of temporary electric service from an overhead or underground
system, the same shall be made, installed and constructed substantially in
accordance with diagrams therefor on file with the city clerk and entitled
"typical temporary electric service from an overhead system" and "typical
temporary electric service from an underground system", respectively. (Ord.
848, 1-5-1976)
8-6-10: CITY THAWING OF METERS:
The first instance of the freezing of any individual water meter shall be
thawed by the city's water department, and the user shall be instructed to keep
the water running in their premises until the ground has thawed. This service
by the city personnel shall be at no charge to the user. Any subsequent
freezing of such water meter shall be thawed by the city water department, and
a charge of thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be assessed plus the actual equipment
costs for any city equipment and/or purchased services required to accomplish
the thawing. This shall include, but not be limited to, backhoe and/or grader,
propane heating equipment, earthmoving equipment, etc., together with the cost
of operator time in employing such equipment. This policy will be followed in
all cases where meter thawing is required on or after the date that this
section is published in the "Weiser Signal American". (Res. 369, 2-10-1986)
8-6-11: USER USING FALSE FACTS:
City utility services must be in the name of the user of such services.
Providing false facts for such services will be sufficient cause for
termination of those services. This policy will be followed in all cases where
utility user regulations are required on or after the effective date hereof.
(Res. 373, 6-9-1986)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Park Property
8-7-2: Traffic
8-7-3: Recreational Activities
8-7-4: Behavior
8-7-5: Merchandising, Advertising And Signs
8-7-6: Park Operating Policy
8-7-7: Enforcement
8-7-8: Penalties
8-7-1: PARK PROPERTY:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Buildings And Other Property:
      1.   Disfiguration And Removal: Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with or displace or remove any building, bridges, tables, benches,
fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public
utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether
temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or
other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal, or have in his possession any of the
foregoing things or objects or any part thereof.
      2.   Restrooms And Washrooms: Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms
and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition. No person over the age of five
(5) years shall use the restroom and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
      3.   Erection Of Structures: Construct or erect any building or structure
of whatever kind, whether permanent or temporary in character or run or string
any public service utility into, upon or across such lands, except on special
written permit issued hereunder.
   B.   Trees, Shrubbery And Lawns; Injury And Removal: Damage, cut, carve,
transplant or remove any tree or plant or injure the bark or pick the flowers
or seeds of any tree or plant. Nor shall any person attach any rope, wire or
other contrivance to any tree or plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas or in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976)
8-7-2: TRAFFIC:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Motor Vehicle Laws: Fail to comply with all applicable provisions of
Idaho state traffic code relating to the operation of motor vehicles and as
contained in this and other ordinances 1 .
   B.   Enforcement Of Traffic Regulations: Fail to obey all police officers
and park employees, such persons being hereby authorized and instructed to
direct traffic whenever and wherever needed in the parks.
   C.   Obey Traffic Signs: Fail to observe carefully all traffic signs
indicating speed, direction, caution, stopping or parking and all others posted
for proper control of traffic and to safeguard life and property.
   D.   Speed Of Vehicles: Ride or drive a vehicle at a rate of speed exceeding
fifteen (15) miles an hour, except upon such roads designated, by posted signs,
for speedier travel.
   E.   Operation Confined To Roads: Drive any vehicle on any area except the
paved park roads or parking areas or such other areas as may on occasion be
specifically designated as temporary parking areas.
   F.   Parking:
      1.   Designated Areas: Park a vehicle in other than an established or
designated parking area, and such use shall be in accordance with the posted
directions and with the instructions of any attendant who may be present.
      2.   Night Parking: Leave a vehicle standing or parked after closing
hours of the park.
      3.   Double Parking: Double park any vehicle on any road or parkway
unless directed by a police officer or a park attendant.
   G.   Muffler Required: Fail to use a muffler adequate to deaden the sound of
the engine in a motor vehicle designed to prevent excessive or unusual sound
and annoying smoke. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or other
similar device. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-1 of this code.
8-7-3: RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Swimming Or Wading: Swim, bathe or wade in any water or waterways or
pool in any park except in such water and at such places as are provided
therefor and in compliance with such rules and regulations promulgated and
posted by the Weiser city council.
   B.   Picnic And Park Area And Use:
      1.   Regulated: Fail or refuse to comply with directions given by park
attendants in regulating the activities in any area when necessary to prevent
congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of
all.
      2.   Availability: Violate the regulation that use of the individual
fireplaces together with places with tables and benches follows generally the
rules or "first come, first served". Picnickers shall be required to furnish
their own firewood, charcoal and other equipment.
      3.   Nonexclusive: Use any portion of the picnic areas or of any of the
buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons nor shall any person use such area and facilities
for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
      4.   Moving Tables: Move reserved tables without consulting a park
attendant.
      5.   Duty Of Picnicker: Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in disposal receptacles where
provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   C.   Camping: Set up tents, shacks or any other shelter for the purpose of
camping, except by special permission, nor shall any person leave in a park
after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used or that
could be used for such purpose, such as a house trailer, camp trailer, camp
wagon or the like.
   D.   Games: Take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown
or otherwise propelled dangerous objects such as stones, arrows or javelins
except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. Golfing or driving golf
balls is prohibited except where specific facilities have been provided.
   E.   Horseback Riding: Ride a horse except on designated bridle trails and
in specially designated park areas. Where permitted, horses shall be thoroughly
broken and properly restrained and ridden with due care and shall not be
allowed to graze or go unattended.
   F.   Tennis Courts: Fail to observe and/or violate the rules of the use of
such courts as promulgated by the Weiser city council or duly authorized
representative designated by it and posted. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976)
   G.   Band Shell Use: (Rep. by Ord. 1181, 10-11-2005)
   H.   Park Grass: No vehicle shall be permitted in or upon any park grass
except:
      1.   Those vehicles employed by the city; and
      2.   Those vehicles making deliveries within a park. (Ord. 857, 5-10-
1976)
   I.   Camping And Parking At Mortimer's Island Prohibited: That it shall be
unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to:
      1.   Set up tents or shelter for camping or to camp on Mortimer's Island.
      2.   To park any vehicle including campers and trailers on Mortimer's
Island for the purpose of spending the night or camping.
Except that during the third full week of June commencing Monday at six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. and terminating Sunday at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of that week,
camping and parking on Mortimer's Island is permitted. (Ord. 1019, 12-13-1993;
amd. Ord. 1020, 1-24-1994)
8-7-4: BEHAVIOR:
No person in any park shall: (Ord. 927, 11-8-1982)
   A.   Consume or possess any alcoholic beverage except beer in any park or
consume or possess beer in those areas of the city parks being used for a
public school function. (Ord. 927, 11-8-1982; amd. 1987 Code)
   B.   Be under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics or drugs to
the degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or property or annoy
or disturb persons in his vicinity.
   C.   Permit or suffer a dog or other domestic animal to enter or remain in a
park except on a leash or carried by the person owning or having the care,
custody and control of such dog or domestic animal.
   D.   Endanger the safety or health of any person by any conduct or act.
   E.   Prevent any person from using any part or any of its facilities or
interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and the rules and
regulations applicable to such use.
   F.   Violate any rules and regulations for the use of a park or any of its
facilities, approved by the council of the city or its duly authorized
representative.
   G.   Solicit or accost other persons for the purpose of begging or
soliciting alms.
   H.   Operate or aid in the operation of private radios, stereophonic or
sound amplification devices at a greater operating level than sixty two (62)
decibels measured at a distance of twenty feet (20') from such radios or
devices. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976; amd. 1987 Code)
   I.   Use, possess or discard glass beverage containers. Violation of this
prohibition shall be an infraction punishable by a fine of forty eight dollars
($48.00). (Ord. 1106, 3-12-2001)
8-7-5: MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING AND SIGNS:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Vending And Peddling: Expose or offer for sale any article or thing,
nor shall he station or place any stand, cart or vehicle for the
transportation, sale or display of any such article or thing. Exception is here
made as to any regularly licensed concessionaire acting by and under the
authority and regulation of the city council or any authorized representative.
   B.   Advertising: Distribute, leave or throw any advertising material, such
as dodgers, handbills, circulars or like matter or give away or otherwise
distribute for advertising purposes any goods or wares.
   C.   Signs: Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any signs, plaques,
advertisement or inscription whatever, except plaques, tablets or signs of a
size, design and location approved by the city council or duly authorized
representative, recognizing or acknowledging donations or contributions to any
city park or public facilities therein. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976; amd. 1987 Code)
8-7-6: PARK OPERATING POLICY:
   A.   Park Hours: Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall
be open to the public every day of the year from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. Thereafter, visitors and vehicles shall be
excluded during the hours of closure except for transit through a park. The
mayor shall have the authority to change the hours of any park by proclamation
and the publication of the proclamation in the "Weiser Signal American", the
official newspaper of the city.
   B.   Closed Areas: Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to
the public by the Weiser city council or duly authorized representative at any
time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regularly and
stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and either entirely or merely to certain
uses, as the city council or duly authorized representative shall find
reasonably necessary.
   C.   Effect Of A Permit: The permittee shall be bound by all park rules and
regulations and all applicable ordinances as fully as though the same were
inserted in said permit. The person or persons to whom a permit is issued shall
be liable for any loss, damage or injuries sustained by any person or persons
to whom such permit shall have been issued. The city council, or a duly
authorized representative shall have the authority to revoke a permit upon a
finding of violation of any rule or ordinance or upon good cause. (Ord. 857, 5-
10-1976; amd. 1987 Code)
8-7-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement: Officials, police officers and park attendants or duly
authorized representatives of the city council shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Ejectment: A police officer and any park attendant or a duly authorized
representative of the city council shall have the authority to eject from the
park any person acting in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Seizure Of Property: A police officer shall have the authority to seize
and confiscate any property, thing or device in the park or used in violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976; amd. 1987 Code)
8-7-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalties
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 857, 5-10-1976; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ATTACHMENTS TO UTILITY POLES AND POSTS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Attachments On Poles And Posts Prohibited
8-8-2: Penalty
8-8-1: ATTACHMENTS ON POLES AND POSTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to place any attachment, sign, poster or any object upon
the city utility poles, posts, fixtures and equipment without express authority
of the mayor and council of the city. (Ord. 916, 10-12-1981)
8-8-2: PENALTY:
Any person found to be violating section
8-8-1 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each violation. (Ord. 916, 10-12-1981)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Laws Adopted
9-1-2: Issuance Of Citations
9-1-3: Speed Limits
9-1-4: U-Turns Prohibited
9-1-5: Truck Traffic Prohibited
9-1-6: Texting While Driving Prohibited
9-1-1: LAWS ADOPTED:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of the city to aid
and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in traffic
regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward
that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the cities of Idaho is a
necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the state.
Therefore, there is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city
that certain code identified as the "Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws", 1969 revised
edition, more particularly title 49, Idaho Code, published by the department of
law enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho
legislature, or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at
length herein. (Ord. 800, 2-7-1971)
Three (3) copies of the said "Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws", together with any
revisions or amendments, duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on
file in his office for use and examination of and by the public. (Ord. 800, 2-
7-1971; amd. 1987 Code)
9-1-2: ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS:
Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter or the laws hereinabove
adopted, the arresting officer shall execute the citation in the following
manner:
Violation of Weiser City Code, Section
9-1-1 (being in particular section 49-                of the Idaho Code).
(1971 Code)
9-1-3: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions and having regards to the actual potential
hazards then existing. Consistent with the foregoing, every person shall drive
at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an intersection
or railroad grade crossing, while approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and
when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by
reason of weather or highway conditions.
   B.   No person shall travel at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles
per hour on city streets or fifteen (15) miles per hour in any alley unless
otherwise posted. (Ord. 931, 7-11-1983)
9-1-4: U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any U-turn at any street
intersection or on any street or alley within the business district of the
city, nor shall any vehicle be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction upon any curve or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade,
where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from either direction within five hundred feet (500'). (1971 Code)
9-1-5: TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
   A.   Through truck traffic is restricted to designated truck routes except
for those trucks making local deliveries. Trucks shall be defined as tractors
with trailers. It shall be unlawful to operate a truck within the city except
on designated truck routes.
   B.   Designated truck routes in the city shall be as follows:
      1.   The east-west truck route shall commence at Oregon Highway 201 where
it crosses the Snake River to Commercial Street to East 7th and then to Highway
95.
      2.   The north-south truck route shall commence at Highway 95 along East
6th Street to East 7th Street and thence to Highway 95.
   C.   It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine in the amount of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to operate a tractor trailer in the city not
making local deliveries and traveling off the designated truck route. (Ord.
1023, 7-11-1994; amd. Ord. 1031, 8-29-1994)
9-1-6: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
      TEXTING: Engaging in the review, preparation, and/or transmission of a
typed or pictorial message via a wireless, handheld device. This definition
shall not include: the use of a voice operated or hands free device to review,
prepare, and/or transmit a message without the use of either hand except to
activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function of such voice operated
or hands free device; the use of any device to dial a telephone number,
initiate a telephone call, and/or verbally communicate; or the use of a mobile
data terminal by law enforcement, fire, or emergency medical personnel while
acting in the course and scope of their duties.
     WIRELESS, HANDHELD DEVICE: An electronic device which communicates or
transmits a typed or pictorial information by electromagnetic waves or radio
frequency and which is designed to be held or used by, or is actually held or
used by, a human hand or hands. This term shall include, but shall not be
limited to, cellular telephones, satellite telephones, pagers, computers,
mobile messaging devices, tactile texting devices, personal electronic devices,
personal digital assistants, and/or any device with two (2) or more such
capabilities.
   B.   Violation: Texting while operating a motor vehicle while such vehicle
is in motion shall be prohibited. A violation of this section shall be an
infraction, punishable by a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 1225,
8-8-2011)
CHAPTER 2
STOP, ONE-WAY STREETS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Erection Of Signs
9-2-1: ERECTION OF SIGNS:
Under the direction of the city superintendent, with the approval of the mayor
and council, the appropriate signs shall be erected denoting stop intersections
and the proper direction of traffic flow on one-way streets in the city. (1971
Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Establishment Of Parking Zones
9-3-2: Changing Time Restrictions; Posting Signs
9-3-3: Restricted Time For Loading Spaces
9-3-4: Designation Of Parking Spaces
9-3-5: Parking Restrictions
9-3-6: Enforcement By Police Department
9-3-7: Vehicles Not To Damage Property
9-3-8: Parking Violations
9-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING ZONES:
   A.   For the purpose of the regulation of traffic upon the public streets of
the city, there is hereby created and established within the corporate limits
an area designated as the parking zone, and which parking zone shall initially
include the following streets:
All of State Street, from its intersection with Park Street to Commercial
Street.
East and West Main Street extending one block in each direction from its
intersection with State Street. West Idaho Street extending one block from its
intersection with State Street and East Idaho Street extending one block from
its intersection with State Street. (Ord. 1134, 11-12-2002)
   B.   The city council may from time to time as they deem proper and
necessary for the control of traffic, add additional territory to such parking
zone or alter or change the existing zone by a resolution duly adopted and may
by resolution change the restrictions within said zone from time to time as
they deem proper and necessary for the control of said traffic.
   C.   Except as otherwise herein provided or as provided in any other
regulation of the city, it shall be unlawful to park in any parking zone within
the meaning of this chapter between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. in excess of two (2) hours. Provided, however, that
such time restrictions shall not be in operation on Sundays, New Year's Day,
Memorial Day, Fourth Of July, Armistice Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas. In determining whether a vehicle has been parked in excess of two
(2) hours in a particular area within the meaning of this chapter, the time
during which a vehicle is parked on any one street within one linear block
distance shall be cumulative whether said vehicle is moved ahead or back on
said street within one linear block's distance unless said vehicle has removed
from said parking space for at least fifteen (15) minutes, in which case the
time shall begin to run initially again. (Ord. 727, 9-1-1964; amd. 1987 Code)
9-3-2: CHANGING TIME RESTRICTIONS; POSTING SIGNS:
Whenever the council deems it proper and necessary for the control of traffic
to alter or change the time limits for parking of vehicles within said parking
zone or any other parking zone established by said council, they may by
resolution duly adopted, alter or change said restrictions within said zones.
The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to post appropriate signs
on said streets in said parking zone indicating the restricted time of parking
and shall from time to time if said time restrictions are changed by the city
by resolution as hereinbefore provided, change said signs accordingly within
the particular areas as directed by the council. (Ord. 727, 9-1-1964; amd. 1987
Code)
9-3-3: RESTRICTED TIME FOR LOADING SPACES:
Any area designated as a loading space may be occupied by a vehicle while
actually engaged in loading and unloading persons, supplies or merchandise for
a period not to exceed twenty (20) minutes during any one period of time during
the parking hours in this chapter specified. (Ord. 727, 9-1-1964; amd. 1987
Code)
9-3-4: DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES:
The chief of police is hereby instructed to have lines or markings painted or
placed upon the curb and/or the street adjacent to the sidewalk within each
parking zone for the purpose of designating the parking spaces within which
said vehicles shall park, and all vehicles shall park within the lines or
markings so established. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter
to park any such vehicle across any such line or markings or to park said
vehicle in such position that the same shall not be entirely within the area so
designated by such lines or markings.
Any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked parallel or diagonal
to the curb in accordance with the lines or markings so established. (Ord. 727,
9-1-1964; amd. 1987 Code)
9-3-5: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Prohibited; Certain House: From the hours of four o'clock (4:
00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. each day, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or have parked any automobiles, trucks, cars or other vehicles:
Beginning at the southwest corner of the intersection of West First Street and
West Commercial Street and running thence in an easterly direction along West
Commercial Street to the southeast corner of East First Street, thence north
along East First Street to the intersection with the north side of East Court
Street, thence westerly along the north side of East Court Street to the west
side of West First Street, thence southerly along West First Street to the
place of beginning.
All of West Main Street from West First to West Second and all of State Street
south of Commercial to and including the area on the north of the Union Pacific
depot.
This subsection shall not apply to city owned vehicles.
   B.   Parallel Parking Required: Throughout the city of Weiser, except where
diagonal parking is specifically provided or where directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device indicate otherwise, all vehicles shall be
parallel parked with the right tires not more than eighteen inches (18") from
the curb on two-way streets. On one-way streets, the vehicle may be parked on
either side of the street in the same direction as the traffic flow and not
more than eighteen inches (18") from the curb or side of the road.
It shall be the obligation of both the registered owner and the operator of the
vehicle to park in compliance with these requirements. (Ord. 1108, 11-13-2000)
9-3-6: ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the police department of the city
to enforce the provisions of this chapter and any officer observing a violation
of the provisions of this chapter shall leave upon such vehicle, a notice that
the vehicle has been parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The
said citation shall bear the date and hour of leaving the same upon the vehicle
and the citation shall instruct the owner or operator of the vehicle to pay to
the city clerk at 55 West Idaho Street, Weiser, Idaho, city hall, the amount of
the fine within five (5) days from the date of the citation.
   B.   Failure To Pay Fine: Failure to pay a fine as required by this chapter
shall be an infraction. A uniform citation for parking violation and failure to
pay shall be filed in the magistrate division of the district court and served
upon the registered owner of the offending vehicle.
   C.   Filing Of Citation: The notice above mentioned shall be made and
numbered in triplicate and it shall be the duty of the police officer to file
one copy of such notice with the police department and one copy of such notice
with the proper magistrate of the city. It shall be the duty of the chief of
police to file a complaint before the proper magistrate against all persons who
do not report within the time required by said notice. (Ord. 1128, 3-11-2002)
9-3-7: VEHICLES NOT TO DAMAGE PROPERTY:
No truck or other vehicle shall park on any street within the parking zone or
within the city when in so doing it will collide with any marquee or other
structure lawfully placed over said street or sidewalk adjacent to which said
vehicle parks. (Ord. 727, 9-1-1964)
9-3-8: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
Penalty for violating the parking provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by a ten dollar ($10.00) fine. Failure to pay parking fines shall
constitute an infraction punishable by an infraction penalty of fifty three
dollars ($53.00) through the magistrate division of the district court. (Ord.
1110, 11-13-2000)
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-4-1: License Required
9-4-2: Issuance Of License
9-4-3: License Stickers
9-4-4: License Fee
9-4-5: Destruction, Mutilation Of License Stickers
9-4-6: Riding On Sidewalks In Business District
9-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use a bicycle propelled
wholly or in part by muscular power, upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks
or public ways in the city without first obtaining from the city clerk a
license therefor. (Ord. 490, 8-7-1941; amd. 1987 Code)
9-4-2: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The clerk is hereby authorized and directed, upon written application, to issue
bicycle licenses. Said licenses shall be issued for the calendar year ending on
December 31 of the calendar year or the then current year. Said licenses when
issued shall entitle the licensee to operate such bicycle for which such
license has been issued upon all streets, alleys and public ways in the city,
except on sidewalks in the business district. (Ord. 490, 8-7-1941; amd. 1987
Code)
9-4-3: LICENSE STICKERS:
The clerk each year shall provide and have on hand license stickers sufficient
to cover the estimated number of bicycles that will be applying for licenses
during the then current year and such other supplies as may be necessary to
issue such licenses and keep a record thereof. The sticker is to be placed on
the bicycle in such manner and at such place as the chief of police of the city
shall from time to time direct. Each license sticker shall remain attached
during the period covered by such license, and it shall be unlawful to operate
a bicycle in the city without such sticker at all times being displayed thereon
in the proper place indicated by the chief of police. (Ord. 490, 8-7-1941; amd.
1987 Code)
9-4-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee to be paid for each bicycle shall be the sum of one
dollar ($1.00) for each calendar year or fraction thereof, and pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, such license may be transferred when the ownership
of said bicycle is transferred and a fee of fifty cents ($0.50) shall be paid
for the registration and transfer of any bicycle sold. All license fees
collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be paid to the clerk of
the city and placed in the general fund. (Ord. 490, 8-7-1941; amd. 1987 Code)
9-4-5: DESTRUCTION, MUTILATION OF LICENSE STICKERS:
It shall be and is hereby made unlawful for any person to wilfully destroy,
mutilate, remove or alter the serial number or other number stamped on any
bicycle frame licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate or alter any license
sticker during the time in which such license sticker is in effect. (Ord. 490,
8-7-1941; amd. 1987 Code)
9-4-6: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT:
It is hereby made unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle, scooter,
rollerblades, or skateboards on the sidewalk in Weiser in the Weiser business
district. The Weiser business district is defined as that part of the city from
the railroad depot to West First Street; West First Street to West Court
Street; West Court Street to State Street; State Street to East Park Street;
East Park Street to East First Street; East First Street to the railroad depot.
It is also unlawful for any bicycle operator in the business district to carry
any extra person or persons on the bicycle. (Ord. 1105, 10-10-2000)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose; Intent
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be hereafter cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF WEISER. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-1-2: PURPOSE; INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of the governing body of the city to set forth
regulations in accordance with the comprehensive plan of the city which are
designed to lessen congestion in streets, to safeguard from fire, panic and
other damages, to promote public health, safety, morals and the general
welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of
land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public
requirements for the inhabitants of the city. Such regulations shall be made
with reasonable consideration, among other things, as to the character of the
district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view to
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of
land throughout the city. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined as
follows:
The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended", "designated" or
"arranged to be used or occupied".
The word "lot" includes the words "plot or parcel".
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or structure attached to or detached
from the main building, located in or occupying not more than thirty percent
(30%) of the rear yard adjoining the main building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building and the bulk of which is not more than
forty percent (40%) of the main building.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is customarily incidental to that of the main
building or to the main use of the land and which is located in the same zone
or a less restrictive zone and on the same lot with a main building or use. An
accessory use shall also include the keeping of domestic animals, subject to
other provisions of this title.
ADMINISTRATOR: The building and zoning enforcement officer appointed by the
mayor and city council to administer this title.
AGRICULTURE: Tilling of soil, horticulture, raising crops, livestock, dairying,
including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto; but excluding
slaughterhouses, and concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs).
ALLEY: A public way, other than a street, twenty feet (20') or less in width,
affording secondary means of access to abutting property.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A residential building designed for three (3) or more dwelling
units.
AUTO WRECKING YARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation; any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof and including any farm vehicles
or farm machinery or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored
to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging and scavenging
of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE: A passenger vehicle.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or fender straightening and
repair; and overall painting of motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: An establishment where automotive fuels and
lubricants, accessories and services are sold at retail; however, where the
sale of such is only incidental the establishment or premises shall be
classified as a public garage.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A professionally run facility providing up to sixteen (16)
rooms for temporary overnight accommodations, and where the owner-innkeeper is
resident on the property. A bed and breakfast provides breakfast for overnight
guests, but does not provide a restaurant and/or bar. Exterior signage must
conform to sign ordinances of that zone and area.
BOARDING, LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A residential building containing
guestrooms where meals and/or lodging for compensation are provided.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels, and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of such building shall be deemed a separate building.
BUILDING LINE: A line established by law or agreement beyond which a building
shall not extend.
CLINIC: A building arranged, intended, designed for and used solely as a place
for the treatment and diagnosis of patients.
CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS (CAFO):
   A.   Any lot, corral, or facility where more than ten (10) animal units of
livestock are confined, or stabled and fed, or maintained for a total of forty
five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period; and on which crops,
vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues are not sustained in the
normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility. Livestock shall
be considered domesticated animals, poultry, rabbits and furbearing animals.
Animal units shall be determined by the county standard.
   B.   An area where any one of the numbers of animals listed in subsections
B1 through B9 of this definition is confined for a total of forty five (45)
days or more in any twelve (12) month period or calendar year, and where less
than fifty percent (50%) of the feed is produced by the owner on his immediate
property, or crops or other vegetation are not sustained in the normal growing
season over a portion of the lot.
      1. Three hundred (300) slaughter/feeder cattle and/or dairy heifers.
      2. Two hundred (200) mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows).
      3. Seven hundred fifty (750) swine, each weighing over fifty five (55)
pounds.
      4. One hundred fifty (150) horses.
      5. Three thousand (3,000) sheep or lambs.
      6. Sixteen thousand five hundred (16,500) turkeys.
      7. Thirty thousand (30,000) laying hens or broilers (if the facility has
continuous overflow watering).
      8. Nine thousand (9,000) laying hens or broilers (if the facility has a
liquid manure handling system).
      9. Three hundred (300) animal units with the number of animal units at a
facility defined as the sum of the following:
         a. Number of slaughter and feeder cattle and dairy heifers multiplied
by 1.0; plus
         b. Number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by 1.4; plus
         c. Number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied by
0.4; plus
         d. Number of sheep multiplied by 0.1; plus
         e. Number of horses multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   A contiguous area or parcel of land or the use of a contiguous area or
parcel of land upon which there are confined or fed livestock, fish, birds in
enclosures or ponds for six (6) months or more of the year, which does not
sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or postharvest residues in the normal
growing season and which consists of:
      1. Any combination of animal units which totals three hundred (300)
animal units or one or both of the following:
          a. Any facility with a milk shipping permit; or
         b. Any facility with a waste treatment system.
DEPARTMENT STORE: A retail outlet.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than an automobile service
station, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make purchase or receive services.
DRIVEWAY: An area established or used for ingress or egress of vehicles from a
street or thoroughfare to any point on private property.
DWELLING: Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for and
occupied by more than two (2) families with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building designed or erected for and
occupied exclusively by one family or household.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A building designed for and occupied exclusively
by two (2) families with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of two (2) or more rooms, one of which is either a
bathroom or kitchen designed for occupancy by one family or not more than two
(2) persons for living and sleeping purposes (see definition of Occupancy).
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The factor by which the lot area shall be multiplied to
arrive at the maximum floor space allowed within any particular district.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or portion of a main building designed
or used for the parking or storage of motor vehicles of the occupants of the
premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building or premises, other than a private garage, used for
equipping, refueling, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling or storing motor
vehicles.
GRADE: The average elevation of the finished ground at the exterior walls of
the main building.
GUESTHOUSE: A dwelling containing not more than five (5) guestrooms or suites
of rooms, but with no kitchen facilities.
GUESTROOM: Any habitable room, except a kitchen, designed or used for occupancy
by one or more persons and not in a dwelling unit.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: Any area containing a concentration which represents one or
more architectural periods or styles typical to the history of the city, and
that has been designated an historic district pursuant to this title.
HISTORIC LANDMARK: A site, building or structure which has a special character,
historical interest, or aesthetic value, which possess integrity of location,
design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and association, or which
represents the history of the city, and that has been designated an historic
landmark pursuant to this title.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the occupant of the dwelling as a
secondary use in connection with which there is no display; no stock in trade
or commodity sold upon the premises; no person is employed other than a member
of the family residing on the premises; and, no mechanical equipment used
except such as is necessary for domestic or household purposes.
HOTEL: A building containing guestrooms where lodging is provided for more than
six (6) persons and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to
boarding, lodging or rooming houses.
INDUSTRY, HEAVY: Any manufacture, processing, or testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power, where the byproducts of such use
include noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration, dust, light, or traffic does
extend beyond the confines of the property and may have a detrimental effect on
neighboring property.
INDUSTRY, LIGHT: Any manufacturing processing, testing, energy production,
storing, assembling, and similar uses. Any byproducts of noise, smoke, odor,
glare, gas, vibration, dust, light generally is contained within a building or
does not extend beyond the property lines to have measurable impact upon the
surrounding properties. It does not refer to the growing of agricultural crops,
or the raising of livestock.
JUNKYARD: Any area where discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, handled or stored but not including
areas where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed
building.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which three (3) or more dogs or other domestic
animals, at least six (6) months of age are kept.
LANDSCAPING: Shall include:
Plant material which includes the use of a mixture of ground covers, shrubs and
trees.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building or
contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts on
a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LOT: Land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main building and its
accessory buildings and including as a minimum such open spaces exclusive of
street areas as required under this title, and having frontage on a public or
private street or road. The front of a corner lot shall be the narrower side
abutting a street.
LOT AREA: The total area within the lot lines of a lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets
having an angle of intersection of not more than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: The line bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot the side street of which is substantially a
continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or nearby streets.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed according to the HUD/FHA
manufactured/mobile home construction and safety standards, built after July 1,
1976, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight (8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 42 USC 5401 et seq. A
manufactured home must meet the siting conditions as specified below as well as
the performance standards listed in this title.
   A.   Shall be at least twenty four feet (24') wide, with a minimum floor
area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   Shall have a metallic, wood shake or asphalt shingle roof with a
minimum slope of three to twelve (3/12) and a minimum six inch (6") eave.
   C.   Shall have a horizontal aluminum, simulated wood or wood siding.
   D.   Shall have a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and
durability to the masonry foundation of site built dwellings and which
surrounds the entire perimeter of the structure and completely encloses the
space between the siding and the finished grade.
   E.   Shall be permanently affixed and set upon a foundation base having an
anchoring system that is totally concealed under the structure. The running
gear and towing hitch shall be removed.
   F.   Shall obtain a building permit from the city building inspector to
ensure that the manufactured home is placed on site to HUD standards set forth
in circular letter 2-83, dated April 8, 1983, or as later amended, published by
the Boise service office of HUD regulating the perimeter foundation, the
anchoring of the structure to its foundation and other building requirements.
   G.   Shall meet all other state of Idaho requirements.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any area, tract, plot, or site of land, whereupon two
(2) or more manufactured homes are placed, located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis and for which a fee, rental or
contract for payment for such use is collected by or collectable to the person,
firm, trust, partnership, public or private association or corporation holding
the land. Any development will conform to title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling, designed to be transported
after fabrication on its own wheels, flatbed or detached wheels, arriving at
the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete, after location on
permanent foundation support on its chassis frame, and hooked to all utilities
as any built on site house would be, as set out in the currently adopted
building code. No mobile home may be placed on a single-family lot within the
city after the effective date hereof unless it meets the rehabilitation
standard as specified in title 44 of the Idaho Code and also meets the siting
standards of a manufactured home as stated above. Mobile homes do not include
recreational vehicles.
MOTEL: A building or buildings where lodging is provided, with or without meals
or facilities for preparing meals, designed or intended primarily for
automobile transients and providing space where automobiles may be parked in
unenclosed or enclosed parking areas.
NATURAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT: The development of a natural area to provide or
enhance use within that natural area, such as boat docks, picnic areas, viewing
stations, walking paths and more.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use, building or yard which does not, by reason of design,
use, building or dimensions, conform to the regulations of the district in
which yard it is situated. It is a legal nonconforming use if established prior
to the passage of this title and not otherwise approved as provided herein.
NURSERY SCHOOL: A school designed to provide daytime care of instruction for
two (2) or more children from two (2) to five (5) years of age, inclusive, and
operated on a regular basis.
NURSING HOME: A building where for compensation care and lodging are provided
with or without meals for the mentally ill, the sick, the orphan, the elderly,
the poor or the feeble, where such use is not accessory to family use.
OCCUPANCY: That no residential dwelling shall be occupied by more than two (2)
adult persons per bedroom.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: A space other than a street or alley designed for or
used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An integrated development consisting of one or more
individual lots where development is planned for the entire project with
provisions for adequate open spaces and conveniently located service
facilities.
PRIVATE CLUBS AND LODGES: A group of persons associated for a common purpose or
mutual benefit, but may or may not have periodic meetings or be jointly
supported.
PROPERTY LINE: The recorded boundary of a plot.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular type unit designed as a
temporary dwelling for recreational, camping or travel use which is either
self-propelled, self-contained, or mounted on or drawn by another vehicle;
including all recreational vehicles, camping trailers, truck campers, and motor
homes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Rental space for recreational
vehicles/travel trailers on a limited basis, generally overnight but normally
not longer than six (6) months. This may include motor homes and pickup
campers. Any development must conform with this title.
REHABILITATION CENTER: A facility providing custodial care and treatment in a
protective living environment for persons residing voluntarily or by court
placement including drug or alcohol abuse centers, where such use is not
accessory to a family use.
SEPTIC TANK: A watertight receptacle for sewage which, after bacterial action,
discharges the effluent.
SIGN: Any board, device or structure or part thereof, used for advertising,
display or publicity purposes. Signs placed or erected by governmental agencies
for the purpose of showing street names or traffic directions or regulations
for other governmental purposes shall not be included herein.
STREET: That portion of the dedicated public thoroughfare, both improved and
unimproved, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property,
including all sidewalks constructed and lying within such dedicated right of
way.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between a street and the lots abutting thereon.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which is supported directly on the
earth.
TEMPORARY BUILDING: A building or structure placed temporarily upon a lot for
construction purposes and must meet requirements of this title.
THROUGH LOT: A lot having its front and rear lines on different streets.
TOWNHOUSE: A structure containing separate living units requiring no setback
lines between contiguous units, having separate utility connections, and is
owned by a person or persons having divided interests in said structure
including the real property upon which it is situated.
USE: The purpose of which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended
for which either land or a building may be occupied or maintained.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to bulk,
placement requirements, lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side
yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance
provision affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the
structure upon lots, or the size of lots.
YARD: An open space in the same lot with a building unoccupied and unobstructed
by other buildings or structures from the ground upward, except as otherwise
provided herein. The measurement of a yard shall be construed as a minimum
horizontal distance between the lot line and the nearest point of the building
or structure.
YARD, FRONT: An unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building and the
front line of the building projected to the sidelines of the lot. The depth of
the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the
street line or the proposed street line as indicated by the official map if the
existing street is less than the proposed width.
YARD, REAR: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the
lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot or
the centerline of the alley if there be an alley and the rear line of the
building.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building
situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of
the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of
the rear yard. If no front yard is required, the boundary of the side yard
shall be the front line of the lot and if no rear yard is required, the rear
boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot.
ZONING DISTRICT: A section of the city for which uniform regulations concerning
the height, area, size and the use of buildings and premises within said
section are established. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 2
DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-2-1: Districts
10-2-2: Zoning Map
10-2-3: Boundary Lines
10-2-4: Zoning Of Annexed Areas
10-2-1: DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this title and in accordance with the comprehensive general
plan, all land within the city's zoning jurisdiction is divided into the
following districts:
AR Agricultural residential
AL Low density residential
A  Low density residential district - single-family and two-family dwellings
B  Medium density residential district
C  Commercial districts
D  Industrial district
E  Floodplain overlay
F  Mixed use development overlay
 
(Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-2-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the above zoning use districts shall be shown on the official
zoning map and designated on said map by the use of the following colors:
AR  Agricultural residential Dark green
AL  Low density residential  Red
A   Residential district     Blue
B   Residence district       Purple
B-1 Residence district       Orange
C   Commercial districts     Yellow
D   Industrial district      Brown
E   Floodplain overlay
F   Mixed use development overlay
 
Said official map, together with two (2) copies thereof, shall be kept on file
in the office of the clerk, and it is hereby adopted by reference thereto. All
notations, references, indications and other matters shown on said map are as
much a part of this title as if they were fully set forth herein. (Ord. 1183,
12-12-2005)
10-2-3: BOUNDARY LINES:
   A.   District boundary lines, as shown on the official zoning map, follow
streets, alleys and existing property lines, where feasible. When the district
boundary lines do not follow any of these lines, the width or extent of the
district may be scaled from the map, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   Whenever a district boundary line does not follow either a street or
alley, the less restricted district (industrial district being less restricted
than the commercial districts or residential districts, respectively) extends
only to the back of the lots where the lots or buildings thereon, or to be
constructed thereon, face the least restricted district and cannot face towards
the side of a building existing or erected in conformity with subsection A of
this section.
   C.   Whenever any street, alley or public way or railroad right of way is
vacated by proper authority, the districts adjoining each of such vacation and
all that are included in the vacation shall henceforth be subject to all
regulations of the extended districts. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-2-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the city council shall request
and receive a recommendation from the Weiser planning and zoning commission on
the proposed comprehensive plan and zone change for the unincorporated area.
Each commission and the city council shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures as provided in Idaho Code 67-6509. Concurrently, or immediately
following the adoption of an ordinance of annexation, the city council shall
amend the plan and zoning ordinance. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 3
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Intent
10-3-2: Nonconforming Uses
10-3-3: Nonconforming Structures
10-3-4: Repairs And Maintenance
10-3-5: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
10-3-1: INTENT:
   A.   Within the districts established by this title or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist structures and uses of land which were lawful
before this title was passed or amended but which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the terms of this title or future amendments.
   B.   It is the intent of this chapter to permit those nonconformities to
continue until they are removed but not to encourage their survival. It is
further the intent that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district, except as herein otherwise provided.
   C.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction
has been diligently carried on. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-3-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, lawful use
of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of this
title, such use may be continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming use or the intensity of such use shall be
enlarged or increased nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this title.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than one year any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this title for the district in which such land is
located after following procedures listed in section
10-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-3-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure or of structures and premises in combination
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title that would
not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title, the lawful use
may be continued subject to the following conditions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted in the district in
which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which it is located, nor shall the intensity of
such use be increased or extended, except that the planning and zoning
commission, by special permit in the case of an affirmative showing of undue
hardship may grant an extension or enlargement of a nonconforming use not
exceeding twenty five percent (25%) of the ground area of the building.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building that were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   When a nonconforming use of a structure or a structure and premises in
combination is discontinued or abandoned for a period of one year, the
structure or structure and premises in combination shall not, thereafter, be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   D.   Any nonconforming building or structure damaged more than sixty percent
(60%) of its then fair market value, exclusive of the foundations, at the time
of damage by fire, flood, explosion, war, riot or act of God, shall not be
restored or reconstructed and used as before such happening, but if less than
sixty percent (60%) is damaged above the foundation, it may be restored,
reconstructed or used as before, provided that it may be done within four (4)
months of such happening and be built of like or similar or better materials.
   E.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of not more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform
to regulations specified by this title for the district in which said land is
located.
   F.   In areas where the grazing and feeding of livestock are not allowed, if
the use of the land for grazing purposes ceases for any reason for a period of
more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
regulations specified in this title for the district in which such land is
located. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-3-4: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement on nonbearing
walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that the cubic content of the
building as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this title shall
not be increased except as above provided.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-3-5: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   If the nonconforming use continues for a period of one year or longer,
the city shall, by written request, require that the owner declare his
intention with respect to the continued nonuse of the improvements in writing
within twenty eight (28) days of receipt of the request. If the owner elects to
continue the nonuse, he shall notify the city in writing of his intention and
shall post the property with notice of his intent to continue the nonuse of the
improvements. He shall also publish notice of his intent to continue the nonuse
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where the property is
located. If the property owner complies with the requirements of this
subsection, his right to use such improvements in the future for their designed
purpose shall continue for a period of ten (10) years, notwithstanding any
change in the zoning of the property.
   B.   The property owner may voluntarily elect to withdraw the use by filing
with the clerk of the city or the county, as the case may be, an affidavit of
withdrawn use. If the property is redesigned for a different use, the property
owner shall be deemed to have abandoned any grandfather right to the prior use
of the property.
   C.   For purposes of this section "designed purpose" means the use for which
the improvements were originally intended, designed and approved pursuant to
any applicable planning and zoning ordinances.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
city from passing or enforcing any other law or ordinance for the protection of
the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Application Of District Regulations
10-4-2: Limitations Of External Effects
10-4-3: Removal Of Traffic Hazards
10-4-4: Accessory Buildings And Uses
10-4-1: APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth by this title for each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land except as set forth in this chapter or elsewhere in this title.
   A.   Conforming Within District: No building, structure or land shall be
used or occupied and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed or structurally altered unless in conformity with
all of the regulations specified herein and for the district in which it is
located.
   B.   Yard, Open Space, Off Street Parking Or Loading Space: No part of a
yard or other open space or off street parking or loading space required about
or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this title
shall be included as part of a yard, open space or off street parking or
loading space similarly required for any other building.
   C.   Dimension Or Area Of Yard Or Lot: No yard or lot existing at the time
of passage of this title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the
minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the
effective date of this title shall meet at least the minimum standards
established by this title.
   D.   Yards Open To Sky: Every front, side and rear yard shall be open to the
sky, unobstructed by buildings or structures except for accessory buildings in
a rear yard.
   E.   Building Height Limitations; Exceptions: No structure may be erected to
exceed the height limits of the zone in which it is located. Aerials or
antennas designed to aid home television reception may be erected to a height
not to exceed sixty feet (60') from the ground level, provided said aerial or
antenna is erected on a building or in the rear yard area.
   F.   Yards, Open Space Or Lot Area Encroachments Prohibited: The minimum
yards or other open spaces, including lot areas per family required by this
title for each and every building existing or for any building hereafter
erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open space
requirements for any other building.
   G.   Number Of Buildings Per Lot; Requirements Generally: Every building
hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling units shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
such building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
   H.   Existing Lots Utilizable When: Any separate lot, the title of which was
of record at the time of the adoption of this title, that does not meet the
requirements of this title for yards, courts or other area of open space, may
be utilized for single residence purposes, provided the requirements for such
yard or court or lot area, width, depth or open space are within seventy five
percent (75%) of that required by this title. The purpose of this provision is
to permit utilization of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as
long as reasonable living standards can be provided.
   I.   Easements For Public Access Required: No building shall be constructed
or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which does not abut upon a public
street or have permanent easement for access to a public street, which easement
shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet (25') unless an easement of
lesser width was of record prior to the adoption of this title.
   J.   Provisions Not To Affect Certain Plans Or Acts: Nothing in this title
shall be deemed to require any change in the plans for construction or
designated use of any building upon which actual construction was lawfully
begun prior to the adoption of this title and upon which building actual
construction has been diligently carried on, and provided further, that such
building shall be completed within one year. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-4-2: LIMITATIONS OF EXTERNAL EFFECTS:
All existing uses and uses established or placed in operation after the
effective date of this title shall comply with the following limitations:
   A.   Volume Of Sound Generated: Every use shall be so operated that the
volume of sound and noise inherently and recurrently generated does not become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness.
   B.   Vibration Generated: Every use shall be so operated that the ground
vibration inherently and recurrently generated is not perceptible, without
instruments, at any point of a boundary line of the lot on which the use is
located.
   C.   Emission Of Heat, Radiation And Fumes: Every use shall be so operated
that it does not emit an obnoxious or dangerous degree of heat, radiation or
fumes beyond any boundary line of the lot on which the use is located.
   D.   Outdoor Storage And Waste Disposal:
      1.   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products
shall be enclosed by a fence or wall adequate to conceal such facilities from
adjacent properties.
      2.   All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or dust, which
constitute a fire hazard or which may be edible or otherwise be attractive to
rodents or insects shall be stored only in closed containers. (Ord. 1183, 12-
12-2005)
10-4-3: REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC HAZARDS:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of real property to remove
from such property any hedge, shrubbery, fence, wall or other sight obstruction
of any nature, except buildings and trees, where these sight obstructions
constitute a traffic hazard. The above sight obstructions shall not extend more
than three feet (3') in height above the existing centerline road elevation
within the vision triangle of vehicle operators. The boundaries of the vision
triangle being defined by measuring from the intersection of the edges of two
(2) adjacent roadways forty feet (40') along each roadway and connecting the
two (2) points with a straight line. The sight distance obstruction is also
applicable to railroad-highway grade crossings with vision triangle defined by
measuring forty feet (40') along the railroad property line.
   B.   When the Idaho transportation department or any local authority
determines upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that such
a traffic hazard exists, it shall notify the owner and order that the hazard be
removed within fifteen (15) days.
   C.   The failure of the owner to remove such traffic hazard within fifteen
(15) days shall constitute an infraction and every day that said owner shall
fail to remove said obstruction shall be a separate and distinct offense. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-4-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
No accessory building or use shall be erected or maintained and no existing
accessory building or use shall be structurally altered, converted, enlarged,
moved or maintained unless such accessory building or use is in conformance
with the following regulations:
   A.   Except as otherwise required in this title, an accessory building may
be located in any portion of a required rear yard.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall not be nearer than two feet (2') to any side
or rear lot line, or in any utility easement of record, if any exists, and on a
comer lot, said accessory building shall conform to the setback regulations on
the side street. The point of measurement shall be from a point on the ground
perpendicular to any point on or attached to the main accessory building
structure.
   C.   On a reversed corner lot, an accessory building shall not be located
nearer to the side lot line on the street side of such corner lot than the
front yard depth required on the lot to its rear, nor be located closer than
five feet (5') to the side lot line of the lot to its rear.
   D.   Accessory buildings, except buildings housing animals or fowl, may be
erected as a part of the principal structure or building or may be connected
thereto by a breezeway or similar structure, provided all yard requirements for
a principal building are complied with.
   E.   An accessory building which is not a part of the main building shall
not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of a rear yard. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-
2005)
CHAPTER 5
AR RESIDENCE DISTRICT, AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL
SECTION:
10-5-1: Uses Permitted
10-5-2: Conditional Uses
10-5-3: Lot Area Regulations
10-5-4: Height Restrictions
10-5-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-5-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in zone AR, agricultural residential district:
Accessory buildings and uses including private garages, carports, parking
areas, and recreation rooms and areas.
Agricultural uses, not to include CAFOs.
Customary home occupations.
Golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts and similar recreational uses.
Parks, playgrounds, libraries, community centers and similar uses owned and
operated by a governmental agency, including police, fire and postal
substations.
Single-family dwellings.
The city of Weiser utilities and public service uses or structures.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes and townhouses). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-5-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the AR zone:
   A.   Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
   B.   Artificial lake, all districts.
   C.   Educational institutions, including university facilities.
   D.   Natural resources development, together with the necessary buildings,
apparatus or appurtenances incidental thereto.
   E.   Recreational vehicle parks.
   F.   Religious institutions including places of worship, schools and
convents.
   G.   Research and development centers for experimental or scientific
investigation of materials, methods or products.
   H.   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be
considered under a conditional use application.
   I.   Public utilities and public service uses or structures other than the
city of Weiser. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-5-3: LOT AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum lot area, five (5) acres or more.
   B.   Minimum at width, seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Front yard not less than thirty feet (30') from the property line or
the established setback line in compliance with subsections
10-11-1D and E of this title.
   D.   Side yard not less than fifteen feet (15').
   E.   Rear yard, not less than thirty feet (30') from the property line.
   F.   No structure shall be placed in any utility easement of record. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-5-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The height restrictions for the AR residential district shall be three and one-
half (31/2) stories but not exceeding forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-
2005)
10-5-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
As required and provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 6
AL RESIDENCE DISTRICT, LOW DENSITY - SINGLE-FAMILY
SECTION:
10-6-1: Uses Permitted
10-6-2: Conditional Uses
10-6-3: Lot Area Regulations
10-6-4: Height Restrictions
10-6-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-6-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in zone AL, residence district - low density:
Accessory buildings and uses including private garages, carports, parking
areas, and recreation rooms and areas.
City of Weiser public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Customary home occupations.
Golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts and similar recreational uses.
Grazing of livestock on lots/parcels by the owner or person in possession of
property or with the consent of such owner or person in possession of such
property so long as:
   A.   The number of livestock does not exceed three (3) animal units per
acre, and in the event that the area size shall be less than one acre, then the
number of animal units shall be reduced proportionately with relation to the
size of the area compared to one acre.
   B.   Feeding for commercial purposes is not conducted (commercial purposes
shall not be deemed to include the keeping of an animal for household or
domestic use or for private purposes such as 4-H and FFA projects, etc.).
   C.   Conditions on the premises do not exist that would cause offensive and
undesirable odors to be emitted therefrom or create circumstances amounting to
a nuisance.
   D.   The area wherein animals are kept and maintained is adequately enclosed
so as not to allow the said animals to encroach upon the property of adjacent
landowners.
   E.   For violations of the provisions herein contained, the owners of the
property or the person entitled to the control thereof shall be first warned
and advised to comply with these provisions. If no action is taken in response,
said owner or person entitled to control shall be fined the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for the first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the
second and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each offense thereafter.
Parks, playgrounds, libraries, community centers and similar uses owned and
operated by a governmental agency, including police, fire and postal
substations.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes and townhouses). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-6-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the AL zone:
   A.   Two-family dwellings (alterations and conversions of single- family
dwellings into two-family dwellings in accordance with the requirements set
forth in this chapter).
   B.   A professional office of a surgeon, physician, dentist, lawyer,
clergyman or other professional person using his residence for the
consultation, emergency treatment or performance of religious rites only, and
not for the general practice of a profession.
   C.   Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
   D.   Artificial lake, all districts.
   E.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, columbariums and crematories.
   F.   Educational institutions, including university facilities.
   G.   Kindergarten or day nursery in the residential districts.
   H.   Natural resources development, together with the necessary buildings,
apparatus or appurtenances incidental thereto.
   I.   Planned unit developments.
   J.   Recreational vehicle parks.
   K.   Religious institutions including places of worship, schools and
convents.
   L.   Research and development centers for experimental or scientific
investigation of materials, methods or products.
   M.   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be
considered under a conditional use application.
   N.   Public utilities and public service uses or structures other than the
city of Weiser. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-6-3: LOT AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum lot area, twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780)
square feet (1/2 acre).
   B.   Minimum at width, seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Front yard not less than twenty five feet (25') from property line, or
the established setback line in compliance with subsections
10-11-1D and E of this title.
   D.   Side yard not less than six feet (6') with a combined total of both
side yards of not less than fifteen feet (15').
   E.   Rear yard, not less than twenty five feet (25') from the property line.
   F.   Minimum open space, sixty five percent (65%). Open space is that area
of blue sky above, including driveway and parking area.
   G.   No structure shall be placed in any utility easement of record. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-6-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The height restrictions for the AL residence district shall be two and one-half
(21/2) stories but not exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-
2005)
10-6-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
As required and provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 7
A RESIDENCE DISTRICT, LOW DENSITY - SINGLE-FAMILY
SECTION:
10-7-1: Uses Permitted
10-7-2: Conditional Uses
10-7-3: Lot Area Regulations
10-7-4: Height Restrictions
10-7-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-7-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in zone A, residence district:
A professional office of a surgeon, physician, dentist, lawyer, clergyman or
other professional person using his residence for the consultation, emergency
treatment or performance of religious rites only, and not for the general
practice of a profession.
Accessory buildings and uses including private garages, carports, parking
areas, and recreation rooms and areas.
City of Weiser public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Customary home occupations.
Golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts and similar recreational uses.
Parks, playgrounds, libraries, community centers and similar uses owned and
operated by a governmental agency, including police, fire and postal
substations.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes).
Two-family dwellings (townhouses), minimum lot size twenty percent (20%) larger
than minimum area regulation (see subsection
10-7-3A of this chapter). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-7-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the A zone:
   A.   Artificial lake.
   B.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, columbariums and crematories.
   C.   Educational institutions, including university facilities.
   D.   Hospitals and sanatoriums.
   E.   Kindergarten or day nursery in the residential districts.
   F.   Medical and dental clinic or medical health center.
   G.   Mortuary or funeral home.
   H.   Natural resources development, together with the necessary buildings,
apparatus or appurtenances incidental thereto.
   I.   Nursing or convalescent homes.
   J.   Planned unit developments.
   K.   Religious institutions including places of worship, schools and
convents.
   L.   Research and development centers for experimental or scientific
investigation of materials, methods or products.
   M.   Neighborhood commercial uses serving the local residents.
   N.   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be
considered under a conditional use application.
   O.   Public utilities and public service uses or structures other than the
city of Weiser. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-7-3: LOT AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum lot area, nine thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet.
   B.   Minimum at width, seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Front yard not less than twenty five feet (25') from property line or
the established setback line in compliance with subsections
10-11-1D and E of this title.
   D.   Side yard not less than six feet (6') with a combined total of both
side yards of not less than fifteen feet (15').
   E.   Rear yard, not less than twenty five feet (25') from the property line.
   F.   Minimum open space, sixty five percent (65%). Open space is that area
of blue sky above, including driveway and parking area.
   G.   No structure shall be placed on any utility easement of record. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-7-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The height restrictions for the A residence district shall be two and one-half
(21/2) stories but not exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-
2005)
10-7-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
As required and provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 8
B RESIDENCE DISTRICT, MEDIUM DENSITY - SINGLE-FAMILY
SECTION:
10-8-1: Uses Permitted
10-8-2: Conditional Uses
10-8-3: Lot Area Regulations
10-8-4: Height Restrictions
10-8-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-8-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are hereby permitted in the B residence district:
Accessory buildings and uses permitted in the A residence district, and those
uses incidental to the permitted uses of this district except accessory living
quarters, servant's quarters and stables.
All uses permitted in the A residence district.
City of Weiser public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes).
Two-family dwellings (townhouses), minimum lot size twenty percent (20%) larger
than minimum area regulations (see subsection
10-8-3A of this chapter). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-8-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the B zone:
   A.   All conditional uses permitted in an A residential district.
   B.   Multi-family dwellings or multi-family dwelling groups.
   C.   Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas and similar uses.
   D.   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be
considered under a conditional use application.
   E.   Public utilities and public service uses or structures other than the
city of Weiser. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-8-3: LOT AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum lot area, seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width, sixty feet (60').
   C.   Front yard, not less than twenty five feet (25') from the property line
or the established setback line in compliance with subsections
10-11-1D and E of this title.
   D.   Side yard, not less than five feet (5') plus an additional two feet
(2') for each story above the second story.
   E.   Rear yard, not less than twenty feet (20') from the property line plus
an additional two feet (2') for each story above the second story.
   F.   Minimum open space, sixty percent (60%). Open space is that area of
blue sky above, including driveway and parking area.
   G.   No structure shall be placed on any utility easement of record. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-8-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The height restrictions for the B residence district shall be two and one-half
(21/2) stories but not exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-
2005)
10-8-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
As required and provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 9
B-1 RESIDENCE DISTRICT, MEDIUM DENSITY - SINGLE- FAMILY/AGRICULTURAL
SECTION:
10-9-1: Uses Permitted
10-9-2: Conditional Uses
10-9-3: Lot Area Regulations
10-9-4: Height Restrictions
10-9-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-9-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are hereby permitted in the B-1 residence district:
Accessory buildings and uses permitted in the A residence district, and those
uses incidental to the permitted uses of this district except accessory living
quarters, servant's quarters and stables.
All uses permitted in the A residence district.
City of Weiser public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes).
Two-family dwellings (townhouses), minimum lot size twenty percent (20%) larger
than minimum area regulations (see subsection
10-9-3A of this chapter). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-9-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the B zone:
   A.   All conditional uses permitted in an A residential district.
   B.   Multi-family dwellings or multi-family dwelling groups.
   C.   Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas and similar uses.
   D.   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be
considered under a conditional use application.
   E.   Public utilities and public service uses or structures other than the
city of Weiser.
   F.   Grazing of livestock on lots/parcels by the owner or person in
possession of property or with the consent of such owner or person in
possession of such property so long as:
      1.   The number of livestock does not exceed three (3) animal units per
acre, and in the event that the area size shall be less than one acre, then the
number of animal units shall be reduced proportionately with relation to the
size of the area compared to one acre.
      2.   Feeding for commercial purposes is not conducted (commercial
purposes shall not be deemed to include the keeping of an animal for household
or domestic use or for private purposes such as 4-H and FFA projects, etc.).
      3.   Conditions on the premises do not exist that would cause offensive
and undesirable odors to be emitted therefrom or create circumstances amounting
to a nuisance.
      4.   The area wherein animals are kept and maintained is adequately
enclosed so as not to allow the said animals to encroach upon the property of
adjacent landowners.
      5.   For violations of the provisions herein contained, the owners of the
property or the person entitled to the control thereof shall be first warned
and advised to comply with these provisions. If no action is taken in response,
said owner or person entitled to control shall be fined the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for the first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the
second and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each offense thereafter. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-9-3: LOT AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum lot area, seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width, sixty feet (60').
   C.   Front yard, not less than twenty five feet (25') from the property line
or the established setback line in compliance with subsections
10-11-1D and E of this title.
   D.   Side yard, not less than five feet (5') plus an additional two feet
(2') for each story above the second story.
   E.   Rear yard, not less than twenty feet (20') from the property line plus
an additional two feet (2') for each story above the second story.
   F.   Minimum open space, sixty percent (60%). Open space is that area of
blue sky above, including driveway and parking area.
   G.   No structure shall be placed on any utility easement of record. (Ord.
1183, 12-12-2005)
10-9-4: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The height restrictions for the B residence district shall be two and one-half
(21/2) stories but not exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 1183, 12-12-
2005)
10-9-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
As required and provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 10
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Commercial Districts Established
10-10-2: Lot Area Regulations For All C Commercial Districts
10-10-3: C-1 Commercial Districts; Regulations For Neighborhood Commercial
Purposes
10-10-4: C-2 Central Business District
10-10-5: C-3 Commercial Districts
10-10-6: Conditional Uses
10-10-7: Design Standards
10-10-1: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Certain districts, designated by the symbol C followed by a numeral or
numeral and letter and referred to collectively herein as C commercial
districts may be created to provide space in suitable locations for the various
types of business activity needed to serve the people and commerce in the city
in conformance with the comprehensive general plan.
   B.   All uses permitted in the B residence districts shall be permitted.
(Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-10-2: LOT AREA REGULATIONS FOR ALL C COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   No minimum lot area shall be required.
   B.   Minimum lot width for buildings containing any dwelling units unless
such dwelling occupy the second or higher floor of the structure, shall be the
same as in the B residence district. No minimum lot width for any other
buildings shall be required.
   C.   Front yard shall be not less than five feet (5') from the property
line. When commercial property adjoins any residential district, the front yard
shall not be less than the established setback line.
   D.   Side yards are not required unless commercial property adjoins any
residential district, in which case a minimum of ten feet (10') side yard shall
be required. A privacy fence with a maximum height of eight feet (8') is
required.
   E.   No rear yards are required except where vehicular access to or from an
alley or required loading space requires same, in which case there shall be
determined the necessary setback, as specified in this title.
   F.   Minimum open space shall be ten percent (10%).
   G.   Height restrictions for all C commercial districts shall be four (4)
stories but in no event to exceed any limits in the currently adopted building
code, except as provided in subsection
10-11-1H of this title.
   H.   Off street parking and loading for all C commercial districts are
required and provided in chapter 12 of this title.
   I.   Sewers and connections to public sewers shall be permitted in
accordance with the bearing walls or partitions, sewer regulations.
   J.   Street, sidewalk, curb and gutter regulations shall be in accordance
with title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
   K.   Open space, all parkway areas are to be landscaped and maintained as
open space except where access driveways and walks preclude such landscaping;
in no event should parkway areas be used to provide required parking or loading
space. Whenever a building or structure is constructed after the effective date
of this section, the city of Weiser landscaping guidelines as required in this
title shall be complied with. Whenever a building or structure is existing
prior to the effective date hereof is enlarged to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) or more in floor area, number of employees, number of housing units,
seating capacity or otherwise, said building or structure shall then and
thereafter comply with the city of Weiser landscaping guidelines. (Ord. 1183,
12-12-2005)
10-10-3: C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS; REGULATIONS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL
PURPOSES:
   A.   Purpose: It shall be the purpose of the C-1 district classification to
establish distinct zones, regulate or provide local commercial service needs
and to restrict incompatible commercial uses.
   B.   Uses Allowed: The following uses shall be permitted in C-1 commercial
districts:
All uses permitted in B residence, as required in section
10-8-1 of this title.
Banks and financial institutions.
Barbershops and beauty parlors.
Book or stationery stores.
Catering shops.
Delicatessens.
Drugstores.
Family daycare/childcare center.
Florist or gift shops.
Interior decorating or upholstering shops.
Jewelry stores.
Medical and/or dental clinics or laboratories.
Newsstands or news dealers.
Office buildings of all types.
Parking lots.
Pizza parlor.
Post offices.
Record shops.
Restaurants, cafes and soda fountains, excluding drive-ins.
Tailor shops.
Video rental.
Other uses deemed similar by the city may be allowed. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-10-4: C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: It shall be the purpose of the central business district or C-
2 district classification to establish a district zone regulated to fulfill the
needs of the city's central business district and to provide for activities
conducive to a compact and concentrated urban downtown commercial center. Lands
may be classified C-2 if contiguous to existing C-2 designated lands and in
accordance with the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Uses Permitted: The following uses shall be permitted in a C-
2 district:
Antique shops.
Bakeries and bakery goods shops.
Bicycle shop.
Blueprinting and photo development establishments.
Car washes.
Clothes cleaning pick up stations or pressing establishments.
Clothing apparel shops.
Custom dressmaking or millinery stores.
Dairy shops.
Dancing and/or music studios or academies.
Department stores.
Dry goods and notions stores.
Electrical appliance shops.
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores.
Hobby shops.
Hotels and motels.
Housing on second and higher floors of structures.
Indoor recreational facilities.
Indoor theaters.
Laboratory.
Laundromat/dry cleaner.
Meat markets.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Parks and plazas.
Pharmacy.
Printing, publishing, bookbinding and lithographing establishments.
Professional offices.
Radio and television sales and repairs.
Radio/TV stations (except exterior communications facilities).
Retail sales.
Shoe repair shops.
Sporting goods stores.
Supermarkets.
Variety stores.
Other uses deemed similar by the city may be allowed. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-10-5: C-3 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose: It shall be the purpose of the service commercial or C-
3 district classification to provide for activities of a service nature which
are more intensive in use than those permitted in other commercial zones and
which are semiindustrial in character. Lands designated as C-3 commercial
districts shall have businesses located thereon not requiring industrial
locations. The following regulations shall apply, in addition to the general
regulations of this title, to all lands, buildings and structures located in
any C-3 commercial district.
   B.   Uses Permitted: The following uses shall be permitted in a C-
3 commercial district:
Auto, RV, and/or truck sales and rentals, motorcycle shops, sales and repairs,
public garages for retail service only, including automobile repairing,
painting, upholstering, body-fender work, provided all operations are conducted
in an enclosed building.
Carpenter, plumbing or sheet metal shops.
Clubs or lodges and fraternal associations.
Commercial parking lots.
Drive-in restaurants.
Hardware stores and furniture stores.
Filling stations or service stations.
Lumberyards.
Parcel delivery service branches.
Pet shops.
Public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Shopping centers.
Trailer sales areas.
Wholesale establishments, storage or wholesale warehouses.
Other uses deemed similar by the city may be allowed. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-10-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in C-3 commercial:
Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
Artificial lake, all districts.
Auction establishment.
Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas and similar uses.
Bars, taverns, and retail liquor stores.
Boarding, lodging or rooming houses, bed and breakfasts and guesthouses.
Building materials, garden supply.
Bus and railroad stations.
Cemeteries, mausoleums, columbariums and crematories.
Coffee/espresso stand.
Commercial recreation uses.
Educational institutions, including university facilities.
Hospitals and sanatoriums.
Industrial laundry.
Kindergarten or day nursery in the residential districts.
Land reclamation projects.
Libraries, museums, fire or police stations or other governmental enterprises
which are controlled by this title.
Manufactured home parks.
Medical and dental clinic or medical health center.
Medical research facilities.
Minor utility facilities.
Mortuary or funeral home.
Natural resources development, together with the necessary buildings, apparatus
or appurtenances incidental thereto.
Nursing or convalescent homes.
Outdoor recreation.
Parks, playgrounds, community centers and other recreational uses operated by
other than a governmental agency.
Public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Religious institutions including places of worship, schools and convents.
Research and development centers for experimental or scientific investigation
of materials, methods or products.
Sanitary fill projects meeting state requirements.
Self-service storage.
Shelter homes.
Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be considered under
a conditional use application. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
10-10-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All development within the commercial district may be subject to building and
construction design standards, including, and not limited to, building design,
landscaping, and lighting, as may be set by the city. (Ord. 1183, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Regulations
10-11-1: REGULATIONS:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the district use and area regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title:
   A.   Permitted: Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside
stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers, projecting into a rear yard
not more than five feet (5') are permitted.
   B.   Open To Sky: Each part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed by other buildings or structures; however, a stoop may extend not
more than four feet (4') into the required front yard. A paved terrace may
project into a front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet (10'). Such
stoop or terrace shall be supported only by the front wall of the building.
   C.   Converted Dwellings: All single-family dwellings converted to multiple-
family dwellings and all new multiple-family dwellings must conform to the
following:
      1.   No existing single-family dwelling may be so converted if it
contains less than one thousand (1,000) square feet of livable floor area per
individual household.
      2.   No dwelling unit shall contain less than five hundred (500) square
feet of livable floor area per individual household.
   D.   Uniform Setback Lines: Where a uniform setback line has been
established or observed on one side of a street, no building shall be erected
or structurally altered beyond such setback line.
   E.   Front Yard, Exceptions: In areas where some lots are developed with a
front yard that is less than the minimum required for the district by this
title or where some lots have been developed with a front yard greater than
required by this title, the following rule shall apply: Any new building or
addition in front thereof shall not be closer to the street right of way than
the average of the front yard of the first building on each side within a
distance of two hundred feet (200') measured from building to building, except
as follows:
      1.   Buildings located entirely on the rear half of a lot shall not be
counted.
      2.   If no building exists on one side of a lot within two hundred feet
(200') of the lot in question, the minimum front yard shall be the same as the
building on the other side.
   F.   Rear And Side Yards Adjacent To Alleys: In computing the depth of a
rear yard or the width of a side yard where the rear or side yard opens on an
alley, one-half (1/2) of the alley width may be included as a portion of the
rear or side yard, as the case may be.
   G.   Through Lots: At each end of a through lot, there shall be a front yard
of a depth required by this title for the district in which each street
frontage is located, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Only one front yard need be provided on those through lots which
abut on an expressway or major arterial as shown on the circulation element of
the general plan or when the rights to vehicular ingress and egress to one of
the streets has been abandoned or prohibited.
      2.   When only one front yard is required on a through lot as provided
herein, a rear yard shall replace the normally required second front yard.
   H.   Structures Permitted Above Height Limit: The building height
limitations of this title shall be modified as follows:
      1.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, bell towers, penthouses, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts,
tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires, radio or television towers
or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height above that
allowed in the district in which they are located, if approved by the council.
      2.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals,
sanatoriums, schools or churches when permitted in a district may be erected to
a height exceeding the height allowed in the district where they are located if
approved by the council. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-12-1: General Requirements
10-12-2: Parking Space Requirements
10-12-3: Location Of Required Parking Facilities
10-12-4: Dimensions Of Parking And Access Areas
10-12-5: Circulation
10-12-6: Maintenance And Operation
10-12-7: Off Street Loading Spaces
10-12-8: Off Street Loading Berths
10-12-9: Standards
10-12-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
In any district where required, space for the parking, storage and loading of
vehicles shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Plot Plans: Plot plans showing the proposed development and use of the
property shall be submitted to the building inspector who may disapprove such
plans if he finds that they are inconsistent with the parking requirements as
provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Parking Area Limitations: A required parking area shall be used
exclusively for vehicle parking in conjunction with a permitted land use and
shall not be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   C.   Parking Area Dimensions: A plot plan shall be submitted showing a
detailed functional parking arrangement which indicates the dimensions of
spaces and adequate access thereto.
   D.   Combined Parking Area: Parking facilities may be provided collectively
for two (2) or more buildings or uses, provided that the total area of such
facilities shall not be less than the combined requirements for the individual
uses. A written agreement covering such collective uses shall be filed with the
building inspector.
   E.   Ownership Of Parking Area: Property on which required parking is
established shall be under the same ownership as the use it is intended to
serve. Any joint ownership resulting from the establishment of collective
parking facilities, as provided in subsection D of this section, will be
construed as complying with this provision.
   F.   Nuisance Clause: The parking facilities shall be so designed and
maintained as not to constitute a nuisance at any time and shall be used in
such a manner that no hazard or unreasonable impediment to traffic will result.
(1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
10-12-2: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
The parking spaces required for each type of use shall be as follows:
Residential uses:
Dwellings, one and two-family           2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
                                        11/2 parking spaces per single bedroom
Dwellings, multi-family                 dwelling unit
                                        2 parking spaces per dwelling unit with
                                        2 or more bedrooms
Dwellings, multi-family, senior         3/4 parking space per single bedroom
citizens                                dwelling unit for exclusive occupancy
                                        by persons 60 years of age or older
                                        1 parking space for each 160 square
Hotels, clubs and similar structures    feet of living area. In addition to the
using sleeping rooms                    foregoing, 1 additional space shall be
                                        provided for each regular employee
Motels                                  1 space for each unit, plus 1 space for
                                        resident manager
Trailer parks                           11/2 parking spaces per trailer space
Commercial uses:
Bowling alleys                          4 spaces for each alley
                                        1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        total floor area up to a maximum of
                                        15,000 square feet. The number of
                                        parking spaces for commercial use
Business, general                       buildings exceeding 15,000 total square
                                        feet shall be determined by the city
                                        council after reviewing site plan,
                                        proposed building use and parking needs
                                        on a case by case basis
                                        At least 5 parking spaces for each
Medical and dental clinics              staff member or visiting doctor, plus 1
                                        space for each employee
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats plus 1
                                        parking space for each 35 square feet
Mortuaries, skating rinks and           of seating area where there are no
gymnasiums                              fixed seats, plus 1 parking space for
                                        each 250 square feet of floor area not
                                        used for seating
Office, professional                    1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of office space
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
Open commercial uses, other than        feet of open area devoted to sales or
specifically designated herein          display, plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees
                                        1 parking space for each 2 fixed seats
Restaurants, cafes, nightclubs, bars    or for every 25 square feet of seating
and other similar places dispensing     area where there are no fixed seats,
food or refreshment                     plus 1 parking space for each 2
                                        employees on the largest shift
Theaters, auditoriums, stadiums,        1 parking space for each 4 fixed seats
recreation centers or similar places of plus 1 parking space for every 35
public assembly                         square feet where there are no fixed
                                        seats
Industrial uses:
                                        1 parking space for each 2 employees on
                                        the largest shift or for each 500
                                        square feet of floor area, whichever is
Industrial uses of all types            greater, except for area used
                                        exclusively for warehouse purposes,
                                        plus 1 parking space for each vehicle
                                        used in connection with the use
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of office space or 1 parking space
Public utility facilities, including,   for each 2 employees on the largest
but not limited to, electrical          shift, whichever is greater, plus 1
substations, power booster or           parking space for each vehicle used in
conversion plants, telegraph offices    connection with the use. A minimum of 2
and telephone exchanges                 parking spaces for each such use shall
                                        be provided regardless of the building
                                        area or the number of employees
Other uses:
                                        1 parking space for each 4 fixed seats
Churches                                or for every 35 square feet of seating
                                        area where there are no fixed seats
                                        10 parking spaces per hole and 1
                                        parking space for each 35 square feet
Golf courses                            of building floor area used for public
                                        assembly and for each 250 square feet
                                        of building floor area used for other
                                        commercial uses
Hospitals                               11/2 parking spaces per patient bed
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
Public buildings                        feet of office space or 1 parking space
                                        for each 2 employees, whichever is
                                        greater
Special uses including airports, jails, As determined by the planning and
racetracks, shooting ranges and all     zoning commission or other authorized
other uses where parking requirements   body
have not been designated herein
 
(Ord. 925, 10-11-1982)
10-12-3: LOCATION OF REQUIRED PARKING FACILITIES:
Parking for residential uses shall be located on the same lot or premises or
within three hundred feet (300') of the nearest point of the principal
structure; provided, however, that no off street facilities for a business or
industrial use shall be located in a residential district. In the residential
districts, no more than two (2) permanent parking spaces may be located in
front of the setback line, except on access driveways. (1971 Code; amd. Ord.
883, 1-8-1979)
10-12-4: DIMENSIONS OF PARKING AND ACCESS AREAS:
These dimensions shall conform to the following:
   A.   Minimum Size Parking Spaces:
      1.   Minimum size parking space, nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20').
      2.   Minimum size parking space exclusively for the handicapped as
defined in American National Standard specifications, thirteen feet by twenty
feet (13' x 20').
   B.   Minimum Aisle Widths:
      1.   Thirty degree (30°) parking twelve feet (12').
      2.   Forty five degree (45°) parking fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Sixty degree (60°) parking eighteen feet (18').
      4.   Ninety degree (90°) parking twenty four feet (24').
   C.   Driveway Entrances And Exits, Minimum Requirements: (1971 Code; amd.
Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
      1.   One Dwelling Unit: Driveways used to serve no more than one dwelling
unit, fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Two Or More Dwelling Units: Driveways used to serve two (2) or more
dwelling units, twenty feet (20'). (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979; 1987
Code)
      3.   Single Lane Entrance And Exit Driveways: Single lane entrance and
exit driveways, for all uses except residential, fourteen feet (14') except
that entrance and exit driveways for commercial drive-in uses shall be a
minimum of nine feet (9').
      4.   Combined Entrance And Exit Driveways: Combined entrance and exit
driveways, for all uses except for residential, twenty six feet (26') and not
to exceed forty feet (40') without approval of the city council.
      5.   Curb Cuts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1305.gif]
 
    (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
10-12-5: CIRCULATION:
Circulation within the parking lot shall be such that a car entering the
parking lot need not enter the street to reach another aisle, and a car need
not enter a public street backwards. If circulation is not possible otherwise,
a twenty four foot (24') turnaround will suffice. Directional signs are
required in lots using more than one aisle. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-
1979)
10-12-6: MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
Parking areas shall be hard surfaced and graded so as to drain off all surface
water to storm sewer inlets.
   A.   Bumpers: Bumper guards are required, wherever needed, to protect
adjacent property or vehicles.
   B.   Fences, Walls And Screens: When such parking areas or lots abut upon
adjacent residential properties, there shall be provided a masonry wall, solid
screen planting of appropriate shrubs or an opaque wooden fence of a height of
not less than four feet (4') along the entire boundary common to both the
residential and parking areas.
   C.   Landscaping:
      1.   All open area between a required wall and the property line shall be
landscaped.
      2.   A minimum of two percent (2%) of the parking lot shall be landscaped
where more than ten (10) parking spaces are provided on the premises.
   D.   Lighting: Lights used to illuminate parking shall be reflected away
from any residence.
   E.   Marking: All required spaces shall be marked on the paving surface.
(1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
10-12-7: OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
In any commercial or industrial district, in connection with every building or
part thereof hereafter erected on a lot which abuts an alley, having a gross
floor area of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more, which is to be
occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store,
wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or
other uses similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of
materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the same
lot with such building at least one off street loading space subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   The required loading space shall have the following minimum area:
      1.   Five hundred (500) square feet when the gross floor area of building
is between ten thousand (10,000) and fifty thousand (50,000) square feet.
      2.   Six hundred (600) square feet when the gross floor area of a
building is between fifty thousand (50,000) and one hundred thousand (100,000)
square feet.
      3.   Eight hundred (800) square feet when the gross floor area of the
building is between one hundred thousand (100,000) and two hundred thousand
(200,000) square feet.
      4.   The area shall be increased by an additional two hundred (200)
square feet for each additional two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of
gross building space.
   B.   The required loading space on lots less than forty feet (40') in width
shall extend across the full width of the lot at the alley line, but need not
exceed ten feet (10') in depth.
   C.   Such loading space may occupy all or any part of any required yard or
court space. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
10-12-8: OFF STREET LOADING BERTHS:
   A.   Auditoriums, Gymnasiums, Theaters And Other Buildings For Public
Assembly: For such a building containing ten thousand (10,000) to one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area, one loading berth. For each
additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area or fraction
thereof in such a building, one additional loading berth. Each required loading
berth for a building having more than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of
floor area shall be not less than ten feet wide by fifty feet in length (10' x
50').
   B.   Office Building: For such a building containing ten thousand (10,000)
to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area, one loading berth.
For each additional two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of floor area or
fraction thereof, one additional loading berth.
   C.   Schools, Hospitals, Sanatoriums Or Other Similar Institutional
Buildings And Multiple-Family Dwellings: For such building having twenty
thousand (20,000) to two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of floor area,
one loading berth. For each additional two hundred thousand (200,000) square
feet or fraction thereof, one additional loading berth.
   D.   Establishments For The Manufacturing, Production, Processing, Assembly,
Disassembly, Cleaning, Servicing, Testing Or Repairing Of Materials, Goods Or
Products: For such a building containing five thousand (5,000) to forty
thousand (40,000) square feet of floor area, one loading berth. For such a
building containing forty thousand one (40,001) to one hundred thousand
(100,000) square feet of floor area, two (2) loading berths, plus one
additional loading berth for each additional one hundred thousand (100,000)
square feet of floor area or fraction thereof. Each required loading berth for
such a building in excess of ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area
shall be not less than ten feet in width by fifty feet in length (10' x 50').
   E.   Retail Stores, Including Furniture And Appliance Stores; Repair Shops
Or Restaurants; Warehouse Establishments: For such a building, loading berths
shall be provided in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area Minimum Number And
                          Size Of Each Berth
Under 5,000               No requirements
5,001 to 10,000           1-10 x 25 feet
10,001 to 25,000          2-10 x 25 feet
25,001 to 40,000          2-10 x 50 feet
40,001 to 100,000         3-10 x 50 feet
100,001 to 250,000        4-10 x 50 feet
 
   F.   Mortuaries: For such a building containing eight thousand (8,000) to
one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area, one loading berth.
For each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of floor area or
fraction thereof in such a building, one additional loading berth.
   G.   Other Uses Not Listed: All uses not specifically listed greater than
five thousand (5,000) square feet in floor area which shall require the receipt
or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles shall
have off street loading berths in accordance with subsection E of this section.
(1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
10-12-9: STANDARDS:
   A.   Location: All required loading berths shall be off street and shall be
located on the same lot as the building to be served. No permitted or required
loading berth shall be located within a required front or side yard.
   B.   Area: Unless otherwise specified in this title, a required loading
berth shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by at least twenty five feet
(25') in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space and shall have
vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   C.   Access: Each required loading berth shall be served by appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will not
unreasonably interfere with traffic movement.
   D.   Surfacing: All open loading berths and parking spaces shall be graded
and paved or otherwise improved with bituminous concrete or portland cement
concrete. The minimum specifications for parking lots and loading berths shall
be as follows:
      1.   Base course: Six inches (6") of pit run gravel.
      2.   Leveling course: Two inches (2") of crushed rock, graded uniformly
to zero inches (0").
      3.   Finish with a minimum of two inches (2") mat of bituminous concrete
or portland cement concrete.
All loading berths and parking areas shall be graded so as to drain all surface
water to the storm sewer inlets or other means of drainage.
   E.   Storage, Repair And Service: No storage of any kind, nor motor vehicle
repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted within any required
loading berth.
   F.   Drainage: All loading berths shall be provided with adequate drainage
facilities to carry surface and storm waters into storm sewers or drainage
ditches.
   G.   Space Allocated: Space allocated to a required loading berth shall not
be used to satisfy any requirement of this title for off street parking
requirements. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 883, 1-8-1979)
CHAPTER 13
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Districts
10-13-3: Permitted Uses
10-13-4: Site Area
10-13-5: Standards
10-13-6: PUD Permit Procedure
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   A planned unit development may include a combination of different
dwelling types, building arrangements and/or a variety of land uses which
complement each other and harmonize with existing and proposed land uses in the
vicinity. The purpose of the district is to:
      1.   Create a more desirable living, working and shopping environment by
means of integrated plan development.
      2.   Encourage the development of more imaginative subdivision and better
use of land.
      3.   Integrate home areas with parks and public use areas such as
schools.
      4.   Permit better site planning.
      5.   Provide an incentive of higher density or reduced setback
requirements to the developer in exchange for provision of permanent parks,
open spaces or other amenities.
   B.   In order to provide locations for well planned developments which
conform with the objectives of this title although they deviate in certain
respects from the zoning map and the district regulations, the planning and
zoning commission has authority to recommend use permit for planned unit
developments provided the developments comply with the regulations prescribed
in this chapter. (1971 Code)
10-13-2: DISTRICTS:
A planned unit development may be located in any zoning district upon the
granting of a use permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1971 Code)
10-13-3: PERMITTED USES:
A planned unit development shall generally include only those uses permitted
either as permitted uses or conditional uses in the zoning district in which
the planned unit development is located, subject to the following exceptions:
   A.   A mixture of dwelling types may be located within any of the
residential districts; provided that the character of or the majority of the
units is the same as the district in which it is located.
   B.   Certain uses such as schools, hospitals, recreation, other public uses
and small commercial uses, all of which are an integral part of the
development, may be permitted. (1971 Code)
10-13-4: SITE AREA:
The minimum site area of a planned unit development shall be two and five-
tenths (2.5) acres in a commercial zone and five (5) acres in a residential
zone and ten (10) acres in an industrial zone. (1971 Code)
10-13-5: STANDARDS:
Standards of site area and dimensions, site coverage, yard spaces, heights of
structures, distances between structures, off street parking and off street
loading facilities and landscaped areas shall in the aggregate be at least
equivalent to the standards prescribed by the regulations for the district in
which the planned unit development is located.
The average population density per net acre shall not exceed that maximum
population density prescribed by the site area regulations or the site area per
dwelling unit regulations for the district in which the planned unit
development is located, subject to the exception that the maximum population
density prescribed for the district be not more than twenty percent (20%) in a
planned unit development on a site of five (5) acres or more. (1971 Code)
10-13-6: PUD PERMIT PROCEDURE:
The regulations prescribed in title 11 of this code (subdivision regulations)
shall control the procedure for making application for a permit for a planned
unit development, the public hearing, the investigation and report, the action
of the planning and zoning commission and the regulations governing lapse of a
permit and the new applications subject to the following exceptions:
   A.   The application shall be accompanied by a development plan of the
entire planned unit development, drawn to scale and showing the contours of the
site; provisions for drainage of surface waters; watercourses; railroad and
public utility rights of way; streets; driveways; pedestrian walks; off street
parking and off street loading facilities; reservations for public uses,
including parks, playgrounds and other open spaces; private uses, including
dwelling types; lot layout, locations and heights of structure and landscaped
areas.
   B.   In addition to the date and drawings prescribed in title 11 of this
code, the application shall be accompanied by a tabulation of the area proposed
to be devoted to each land use and a tabulation of the average population
density per net acre and per gross acre in the area or areas proposed to be
devoted to residential use.
   C.   The planning and zoning commission may recommend granting a permit for
a planned unit development as the permit is applied for in modified form if, on
the basis of the application and for the evidence submitted, it makes the
following findings:
      1.   The proposed location of the planned unit development is in accord
with the objectives of the comprehensive general plan, the zoning ordinance and
the purpose of the district in which the site is located;
      2.   The proposed location of the planned unit development and the
conditions under which it would be operated or maintained will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or materially injurious to
properties or improvements in the vicinity;
      3.   The proposed planned unit development will comply with each of the
applicable provisions of this title;
      4.   The standards of population density, site area and dimensions, site
coverage, yard spaces, heights of structures, distances between structures, off
street parking and off street loading facilities and landscaped areas will
produce an environment of stable and desirable character consistent with the
objectives of the zoning provisions;
      5.   The standards of population density, site area and dimensions, site
coverage, yard spaces, height of structures, distances between structures and
off street parking and loading facilities will be such that the development
will not generate more traffic than the streets in the vicinity can carry
without congestion and will not overload utilities;
      6.   The combination of different dwelling types and/or the variety of
land uses in the development will complement each other and will harmonize with
the existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity. (1971 Code)
CHAPTER 14
APPEALS, AMENDMENTS, VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Jurisdiction Of Commission
10-14-2: Appeals And Review
10-14-3: Stay Of Proceedings
10-14-4: Amendments, Variations, Conditional Uses
10-14-1: JURISDICTION OF COMMISSION:
The planning and zoning commission shall act as an appeals commission for the
enforcement and regulation of the provisions of this title and shall have the
following powers:
   A.   The commission shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the building and zoning
enforcement officer in the enforcement of this title.
   B.   The commission is also hereby authorized and delegated the authority to
hear all petitions for change of zoning or for variations of this title or the
provisions thereof, and applications for conditional use permits and shall
submit its recommendations based upon finding of fact to the council for
enactment by an amending ordinance or rejections.
   C.   The commission shall further have the powers and duties as follows:
      1.   To designate land suitable for annexations to the municipality and
the recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
      2.   To recommend to the council from time to time such changes in the
comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
      3.   To prepare and recommend to the council, from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements pursuant to the official
comprehensive plan.
      4.   To cooperate with other municipal or regional planning commissions
and other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to
assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
      5.   To carry out the duties accorded to it by the land subdivision
control provisions of the city 1 .
   D.   The commission shall have no authority to authorize any conditional
use, amendment, or variance of this title.
   E.   The concurring vote of at least four (4) members of the commission
shall be necessary to recommend any conditional use, variance or of zoning or
to reverse any order, requirement or decision of the building and zoning
enforcement officer. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
10-14-2: APPEALS AND REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the building and zoning enforcement
officer, respecting the interpretation of this title or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city affected by a ruling of the building
and zoning enforcement officer concerning the interpretation of this title may
take an appeal to the planning and zoning commission in the following manner:
   A.   Such appellant shall, within fifteen (15) days after the building and
zoning enforcement officer's decision, file a written notice of appeal both
with the building and zoning enforcement officer and the secretary of the
planning and zoning commission, together with a filing fee as hereinafter
required. The building and zoning enforcement officer shall forthwith transmit
to the commission all papers constituting the record upon which his action was
taken.
   B.   The commission, upon receipt of any notice of appeal, shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, but not less than fifteen (15)
days nor more than thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice of appeal and
give written notice of such hearing to the appellant, the building and zoning
enforcement officer and to any other department of the city which might be
affected by the appeal. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
10-14-3: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   The appeal shall stay all proceedings and furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the building and zoning enforcement officer shall certify
to the commission, after notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order granted by the commission or by a
court of competent jurisdiction with notice to the building and zoning
enforcement officer and all due causes shown.
   B.   The commission shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable
time but in no event more than thirty (30) days after its final adjournment of
the hearing. At the hearing, parties in interest may appear in person or by
agent or attorney and testify and offer evidence relevant and material to the
issue.
   C.   The commission may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion,
ought to have been made in the premises, and to that end shall have all the
powers of the building and zoning enforcement officer. (1971 Code; amd. Ord.
939, 8-13-1984)
10-14-4: AMENDMENTS, VARIATIONS, CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   The council may from time to time by duly enacted ordinance, amend
supplement, change or vary this title, or may grant a conditional use permit
thereunder, however, no such amending ordinance shall be passed or conditional
use permit granted except in the following manner:
      1.   The person or party so desiring such amendment, variance or change,
or conditional use permit shall file a petition in duplicate, in the form
provided by the city, directed to the council and planning and zoning
commission, together with a filing fee as hereby required, with the
administrator not less than fourteen (14) days prior to a regular meeting of
the planning and zoning commission. The administrator shall immediately forward
appropriate copies of the petition to any officer or administrative department
affected by said petition.
      2.   The commission at its next regular meeting shall fix a time for the
hearing on the petition. Notice shall be given of the time and place of such
hearing not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before
the hearing, by publishing the notice thereof at least once in one or more
newspapers published in the city and by registered or certified mail to the
petitioner. Such notice shall contain the address or location of the property
involved, as well as a brief description of the nature of the petition.
      3.   The commission shall hear the petition and evidenced related thereto
and make its recommendations to the council within a reasonable time but in no
event more than thirty (30) days after its final adjournment of the hearing. At
the hearing, parties in interest may appear in person or by agent or attorney
and testify and offer evidence relevant and material to the petition.
      4.   In the event of a written protest against any proposed amendment of
the ordinance, or variance thereof, or the proposed conditional use, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered, or by owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is
filed with the administrator on or before the date of the hearing thereon, the
amendment shall not be passed, or the permit granted except by a favorable vote
of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the council regardless of the recommendations
of the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   No variation, amendment or permit shall be allowed:
      1.   To permit a nonconforming use which will materially interfere with
the use of the adjoining premises in conformity with the regulations applicable
to the use district in which it is located.
      2.   To permit a billboard to be erected or maintained.
      3.   To permit a nonconforming use in any residential district, excepting
that when there are two (2) or more similar nonconforming uses in the same
block, a variation may be allowed:
         a.   To alter or remodel a single-family residence so as to provide
for two (2) dwelling units therein;
         b.   To erect, reconstruct, alter or remodel a building in an A
residential district for an apartment house; and
         c.   To erect, reconstruct, alter or remodel a building in a
residential district for a use permitted in the commercial district.
      4.   To permit a nonconforming industrial district use in a commercial
district:
         a.   Unless it is an extension of a permitted nonconforming use by
enlarging a building or erecting additional buildings as part of one
establishment upon a lot or lots adjoining a lot on which such nonconforming
use exists; or
         b.   Unless a separate tract, the title of which was of record on the
effective date of this title, is divided by a district boundary line, but such
variance shall be limited to the use permitted in the adjoining district and
shall not be extended more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the district
boundary line. (1971 Code; amd. Ord. 939, 8-13-1984)
CHAPTER 15
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Development Agreements
10-15-1: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a vehicle
for development in areas and for uses where, in the opinion of the council or
the commission, approval of a requested rezone by itself does not satisfy the
requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance for rezone approval; but, that
use of a development agreement will assure compliance with the required rezone
findings and conclusions. Development agreements can be used after a
determination has been made that the proposed rezone by itself is not
appropriate, unless the use of a development agreement could allow development
to proceed under stricter restrictions than those imposed generally in the
proposed zoning district. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
relieving the property which is subject to development agreement restrictions
from further compliance with all other permit and code requirements applicable
because of the zoning designation of the property. Restrictions imposed upon
property as a result of a development agreement are in addition to all other
zoning ordinance requirements.
   B.   Request For Development: After an application for rezone has been
received in the planning department, a request to enter into a development
agreement for that parcel may be submitted by the rezone applicant; or, a
development agreement may be required by council at council's rezone hearing,
or may be required by council upon recommendation from the commission following
the commission's rezone hearing.
      1.   In the event of a recommendation by the commission that a
development agreement should be entered into, the rezone shall be forwarded to
the city council with a recommendation that the requested rezone be denied or
that it be remanded to the commission, with the council requiring an
application for a development agreement to be submitted by the applicant. If,
however, the applicant agrees to submit an application for a development
agreement, then the commission shall defer its recommendation to the city
council on the rezone application until a public hearing is held on the
development agreement application. After the public hearing on the development
agreement application is held, the commission shall forward its recommendation
on both the rezone and development agreement requests to the city council.
      2.   In the event of a determination by the council that a development
agreement should be entered into, the council shall remand the matter back to
the commission, with the council requiring an application for a development
agreement to be submitted by the applicant, unless the applicant has already
done so and a public hearing was held under subsection B1 of this section. The
council, shall, upon remand, direct the commission on the specific issue to be
addressed by the development agreement. The commission shall then proceed as
specified in this section.
      3.   In the event a developer seeks to enter into a development
agreement, the developer's application for a development agreement shall be
submitted with the rezone application. The commission shall, following
consideration of the rezone and development agreement applications, forward its
recommendation to the city council regarding each of the applicant's requests.
   C.   Stay Of Time Limits: In the event of subsection B1 or B2 of this
section, all time limits required by this code may be stayed upon affirmative
vote of the council or commission.
   D.   Form Of Development Agreement Application: All applications for
development agreements shall be in a form as required by the building and
zoning administrator. No application shall be accepted by the administrator
which does not include the following:
      1.   An affidavit by the owner of the property agreeing to submission of
the use and property for a development agreement.
      2.   The specific use(s) or use restrictions of the property upon which
the development agreement is sought.
      3.   When deemed appropriate by the administrator, a concept plan, which
shall include at a minimum:
         a.   Three (3) site plans and one eight and one-half by eleven inch
(81/2 x 11") reduction showing:
            (1)   Existing structures which will remain, labeled as to existing
and proposed uses.
            (2)   Building footprint, height, number of stories, proposed uses
(office, retail, restaurant, etc.), and square footage of proposed structures.
If residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per building.
(If single-family residential, information on proposed structures is not
necessary.)
            (3)   North arrow.
            (4)   Scale.
            (5)   Property boundary.
            (6)   Names of applicant, owner(s) (if different than applicant),
plan preparer, and project.
            (7)   Size of project.
            (8)   Existing vegetation, labeled as to remain or be removed.
            (9)   Existing and generalized proposed grades for hillside
development.
            (10)   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces shown.
            (11)   Locations and widths of right of way easements, canals,
ditches and property lines.
            (12)   Drainage features.
            (13)   Conceptual landscape plan (landscape areas, sizes and
heights).
            (14)   Impact upon public health, safety or welfare.
      4.   The time period for which the agreement is requested to be valid,
including the time period within which the development or use must commence and
the time period within which the development and the terms of the agreement are
to be completed.
      5.   A statement that failure to comply with all commitments in the
approved development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the property
to the preexisting zone, or in the case of an initial zone at annexation, a
zone deemed appropriate by the council.
      6.   If the development agreement is being requested by the rezone
applicant, as opposed to having been required by council, a statement must be
included that all time limits required by this code are waived.
      7.   Fee.
      8.   Phasing plan and proposed phasing schedule.
   E.   Process: Upon receipt of an application for development agreement, the
administrator and the zoning committee of the city council shall work with the
applicant to prepare a development agreement. The development agreement shall
include the requirements of subsection D of this section and any other matter
which, in the discretion of the administrator would address the concerns for
the development which has been proposed by the applicant. Such concerns
addressed may include, but shall not be limited to: density, bulk, site design,
mitigation of impacts on the surrounding neighborhood, appearance, provision of
utilities or public facilities, and restrictions on use. The draft of the
development agreement shall be reviewed by the city attorney as to form prior
to being sent to the planing and zoning commission.
   F.   Approval Of Development Agreement:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on
the draft development agreement and the rezone request, and make recommendation
to the council. The commission may recommend approval or denial and may
recommend the addition of conditions, terms, duties or obligations to the
development agreement.
      2.   The council shall hold a public hearing on the draft agreement and
the rezone request, and shall review the recommendation from the planning and
zoning commission. The council may approve, deny, and may add conditions,
terms, duties or obligations to the development agreement. Development
agreements may be approved at the sole discretion of council.
   G.   Recording: Upon approval of a development agreement or any modification
thereto by the council and the applicant, within one year from the date of such
approval it shall be recorded at the expense of the applicant and prior to the
rezone approval. Failure to record the development agreement within the one
year time frame shall automatically render approval of the rezone null and
void. Proof of recording must be submitted by the applicant prior to the third
reading of the rezone ordinance by the Weiser city council. The development
agreement, or any modification thereto, and all conditions, terms, duties or
obligations included therein shall run with the land and shall be considered
continuing obligations of the owner, coowners and each other person acquiring
an interest in the property. An owner, coowner, each subsequent owner or other
person acquiring an interest in the property which is restricted by a
development agreement or modification adopted pursuant to this chapter shall
comply with the terms, conditions, obligations and duties contained in the
development agreement or modification.
   H.   Modification Of A Development Agreement: Development agreements may
only be modified after public hearing by the city council. Major modifications
as determined by the administrator require a hearing and recommendation from
the planning and zoning commission prior to council's hearing.
   I.   Termination Of Development Agreements:
      1.   Development agreements may be amended or terminated by the city
council, after public hearing, for failure to comply with the commitments
expressed in the development agreement.
      2.   Upon termination of the development agreement, the council shall
revert the property to the prior zone or in the case of an initial zone at
annexation, to a zone deemed appropriate by the council. All uses of the
property which are not consistent with the subsequently designated zone
following termination of the development agreement shall cease. The owner of
the property shall apply for a conditional use for the property if the use is
conditionally allowed within the subsequently designated zone.
   J.   Public Hearings: Public hearings required under this chapter shall be
conducted and notice shall be provided pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6509.
   K.   Enforcement Of Development Agreements: Development agreements may be
enforced by the city through any means deemed to be appropriate, including, but
not limited to, specific enforcement, injunctive relief, damages or criminal
penalty for violation of this chapter. The enforcement options available to the
city shall not be considered exclusive. (Ord. 1088, 8-24-1999)
CHAPTER 16
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
10-16-1: Factors Considered
10-16-2: Weiser Area Of Impact Defined
10-16-3: Changes In Area Of Impact Outermost Boundary
10-16-4: Jurisdiction
10-16-5: Building Permit Requirements
10-16-6: Planning, Zoning, Subdivisions, Variances, Notice And Hearings
10-16-7: Amendment And Renegotiation Of Plan Policies And Ordinances
10-16-8: Penalty
10-16-1: FACTORS CONSIDERED:
The following factors were considered by the Weiser city planning commission
and the Washington County planning commission and the mayor and council of the
city of Weiser, and the board of commissioners of Washington County, Idaho, in
the establishment of an area of city impact:
   A.   Trade area.
   B.   Geological factors.
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city of
Weiser in the future. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-2: WEISER AREA OF IMPACT DEFINED:
The Weiser area of impact is defined as that unincorporated land mass which
lies contiguous to the city of Weiser, Idaho, having as its closest boundary to
the city, the city limits of said city, as they now exist or as they may be
altered by future annexation of land to the city of Weiser, and having as its
outermost boundary an imaginary line positioned and described as follows:
Commencing at the NE corner of Section 33, Twp. 11 N., R. 5 W, B.M.; thence
North along the East line of Sections 28 and 21 to the East quarter corner of
said Section 21; thence West along the North line of the S1/2 of Section 21,
and the north line of the S1/2 of Section 20 to the South East corner of the
NW1/4 of Section 20, thence North to the South line of Section 17, thence West
along the south boundary of Section 17 and Section 18 to the South West corner
of Section 18, thence South to the South West corner of the NW1/4 Section 19,
thence West to the North West corner of the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 24 of Twp. 11
N., R. 6 W, B.M.; thence South along the West line of E1/2SE1/4 of Section 24,
E1/2 E1/2 of Section 25 and Lot 1 of Section 36, all in Twp. 11 N., R. 6 W,
B.M. To the North bank of the Snake River; thence up along the North bank of
the Snake River to its point of intersection with the South line of the N1/2N1/
2 of Section 5, Twp. 10 N., R. 5 N1/2N1/2 of Section 4 to the SE corner of the
NE1/4NE1/4 of said Section 4; Thence North on the East line of Section 4, Twp.
10 N., R. 5 W, B.M. and the East line of Section 33, Twp. 11 N., R. 5 W, B.M.
to the point and place of beginning.
A map of the described area is attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit A and incorporated herein the same as though set out in full. (Ord.
1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-3: CHANGES IN AREA OF IMPACT OUTERMOST BOUNDARY:
In the event that the city of Weiser or the county of Washington desires to
alter the outermost boundary of the city impact area, or to change the
jurisdiction over said area, they shall do so by renegotiation in accordance
with Idaho Code section 67-6526. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-4: JURISDICTION:
Jurisdiction for all matters concerning zoning, building, subdividing or other
matters granted under the local planning act of 1975 under chapter 65, section
67, within the city impact area of Weiser, Idaho, is hereby granted to
Washington County subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter. (Ord.
1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful hereafter to commence construction on any building or
structure, or to occupy said building or structure, until a building permit has
been obtained from the Washington County building inspector, and after
complying with all regulations of Washington County.
Any person who violates this provision or fails to comply with its terms and
conditions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished for such violation
by a fine of up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each day that the
violation continues. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-6: PLANNING, ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS, VARIANCES, NOTICE AND HEARINGS:
   A.   All planning, zoning, subdivisions, granting of variances, notices and
hearings, and any matters granted under the local planning act of 1975 under
Idaho Code chapter 67, section 6501 et seq., as amended, within the city impact
area of Weiser, Idaho, other than building permit requirements under title 4 of
this code. Ordinances of Washington County, shall first be established,
amended, granted, or otherwise processed for approval or other appropriate
action by the city of Weiser planning and zoning commission, the city of Weiser
city council, and mayor, according to the regulations and ordinances
established by the city. After approval and upon recommendation by the city,
any such matters will be submitted directly to the Washington County
commissioners for approval, disapproval or remand, with such action to be taken
by the county commissioners within forty five (45) days after submission and
after notice of hearing as provided in Idaho Code section 67-6509. The
decisions of the Washington County commissioners shall be based upon
regulations and ordinances established by the city of Weiser.
   B.   Until such time as the city of Weiser has adopted different regulations
as to zoning, subdivisions, and building requirements, the Washington County
ordinances in effect at that time shall be controlling within the city impact
area. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-7: AMENDMENT AND RENEGOTIATION OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Amendment:
      1.   Any amendment proposed to be made to the Washington County
comprehensive plan or the Washington County zoning ordinance, which shall have
an effect within the area of impact, shall be referred to the city of Weiser at
least forty five (45) days prior to any public hearing on any such proposed
amendment. Any comment by the city of Weiser on such proposed amendment shall
be entered in the official record of each public hearing conducted for the
purpose of receiving public comment regarding such proposed amendment.
      2.   Any amendment proposed to be made to the Weiser subdivision and/or
zoning ordinance, which shall have an effect within the area of impact shall be
referred to the county at least forty five (45) days prior to any public
hearing on such proposed amendment. Any comment by the county on such proposed
amendment shall be entered in the official record of each public hearing
conducted for the purpose of receiving public comment regarding such proposed
amendment.
   B.   Renegotiation: In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6523(d), as
amended, the city of Weiser or the county of Washington may request, in
writing, the renegotiation of the plan policies and ordinance provisions
established by this chapter. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written
request by either party, arrangements shall be made for a meeting between the
two (2) jurisdictions. Provisions of this chapter shall remain in full force
and effect during the negotiation period and until amended in accordance with
Idaho Code section period and until amended in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6509 as amended or until altered as a result as a declaratory
judgment issued by the district court. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-16-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished for such violation by a fine of up to three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or jail sentence of up to ninety (90) days, or by both such
fine and sentence. The Washington County prosecuting attorney shall have the
authority and responsibility of prosecuting any such violations. (Ord. 1184,
12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 17
D INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-17-1: Uses Permitted
10-17-2: Lot Area Regulations
10-17-3: Height Restrictions
10-17-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-17-1: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Industrial uses of all types which require both buildings and open
areas for manufacturing, fabrication, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials, manufactured
products or wastes and provided the use conforms to the following performance
standards:
      1.   Smoke: No smoke is emitted of a density greater than no. 1 according
to the Ringelmann's scale, except that smoke of a density not in excess of no.
2 of Ringelmann's scale shall be permitted for a period not in excess of six
(6) minutes in any hour.
      2.   Fly Ash: No particles from any flue or smokestack shall exceed two-
tenths (0.2) grain per cubic foot of the blue gas at a stack temperature of
five hundred degrees Fahrenheit (500°F).
      3.   Dust: No dust of any kind produced by the industrial operations
shall be permitted to escape beyond the confines of the building in which it is
produced.
      4.   Odor: No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend
beyond the lot lines.
      5.   Gases And Fumes: No gases or fumes, toxic to persons or injurious to
property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which they occur.
      6.   Vibration: No intense earthshaking vibrations shall be created or
maintained by any industry beyond the boundary lines of the tract on which it
is located.
      7.   Noise And Sound: A maximum of seventy (70) decibels at the property
line is permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness. Sound may
equal but not exceed street traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal shift
work period.
      8.   Livestock: Raising of cattle and livestock, so long as commercial
feeding is not conducted and conditions do not exist which would cause
offensive and undesirable odors or conditions which amount to a nuisance.
   B.   Feed and fuel stores, lumberyards, machine shops and trailer courts are
specifically permitted in industrial districts.
   C.   Animal Shelters, so long as there is not another Animal Shelter within
a five (5) mile radius. A facility operated by a humane society. or other
nonprofit organization for the purpose of sheltering, caring for, and finding
homes for lost, stray, abandoned, or surrendered animals. An animal shelter may
provide veterinary care, spaying and neutering services, and adoption programs
but does not include private kennels, pet stores. or animal breeding
facilities.
   D.   Uses permitted in the C commercial district, except dwellings or
dwelling units, unless they are allowed as a conditional use.
   E.   Uses customarily incidental to any of the above named uses and
accessory buildings when located on the same lot.
   F.   Conditional uses enumerated in chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 1184,
12-12-2005; amd. Ord. 1272, 4-14-2025)
10-17-2: LOT AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot area, no minimum.
   B.   Minimum lot width, none.
   C.   Front yard, same as C commercial district.
   D.   Side yard, none required except adjacent to a residential district in
which case it shall be not less than twenty five feet (25').
   E.   Rear yard, none required except adjacent to a residential district in
which case it shall be not less than twenty five feet (25').
   F.   Open space, all parkway areas are to be landscaped and maintained as
open space except where access driveways and walks preclude such landscaping;
in no event should parkway areas be used to provide required parking or loading
space. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-17-3: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
None. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-17-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
As required and provided by chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 18
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-18-1: Conditional Uses
10-18-2: Authority To Grant
10-18-3: Application
10-18-1: CONDITIONAL USES:
In order to promote the public good and advance the public welfare, standards
are hereby established for the purpose of permitting certain uses in zones
other than those in which they are classified. These uses are the type that
because of unusual characteristics or particular considerations require special
consideration as to the specific conditions under which such uses may be
permitted. Such uses, together with the conditions controlling their operation,
are designated "conditional uses" and shall be regulated by the following
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-18-2: AUTHORITY TO GRANT:
The planning and zoning commission of the city shall have authority to
investigate and to make recommendations to the city council as to the use of a
lot in any zone for any of the following conditional uses if it finds that the
proposed locations will be desirable to the public convenience and welfare and
will be in harmony with the various elements and objectives of the
comprehensive general plan. The conditional uses under the jurisdiction of the
commission are:
Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
Artificial lake, all districts.
Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas and similar uses.
Cemeteries, mausoleums, columbariums and crematories.
Commercial recreation uses in the C commercial district.
Educational institutions, including university facilities.
Hospitals and sanatoriums.
Kindergarten or day nursery in the residential districts.
Land reclamation projects.
Libraries, museums, fire or police stations or other governmental enterprises
which are controlled by this title.
Medical and dental clinic or medical health center.
Mortuary or funeral home.
Natural resources development, together with the necessary buildings, apparatus
or appurtenances incidental thereto.
Nursing or convalescent homes.
Parks, playgrounds, community centers and other recreational uses operated by
other than a governmental agency.
Planned unit developments.
Public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Religions institutions including places of worship, schools and convents.
Research and development centers for experimental or scientific investigation
of materials, methods or products.
Sanitary fill projects meeting state requirements.
Townhouses. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
10-18-3: APPLICATION:
The applications for conditional use permits shall be filed and processed
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 1184, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 19
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose And Intent
10-19-2: Definitions
10-19-3: Landscape Plan
10-19-4: Minimum Design Standards And Installation
10-19-5: Irrigation
10-19-6: Sight Triangles
10-19-7: Street Buffers
10-19-8: Parking Lots
10-19-9: Buffers Between Different Land Uses
10-19-10: Preservation Of Existing Trees
10-19-11: Stormwater integration
10-19-12: Micropath Landscaping
10-19-13: Reserved
10-19-14: Landscape Maintenance
10-19-15: Alternative Compliance
10-19-16: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-19-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose. To promote landscaping in the City of Weiser which will
improve community livability, preserve the quality of life, and enhance the
aesthetic quality, economic viability, and environmental health and safety of
the city, and further the purposes set forth in the Idaho Local Land Use
Planning Act, Idaho Code § 67-6502.
   B.   Background. The City of Weiser is facing growth issues along the
highway and neighborhood corridors. These problems include:
      1.   Unscreened outdoor storage areas.
      2.   Unwanted noise.
      3.   Failure to enhance the community with corridor landscaping.
      4.   Water pollution resulting from wind and water erosion of bare soil
surfaces.
      5.   Air quality concerns resulting from wind borne eroded soil and dust
from bare soil surfaces.
   C.   Benefits. The City of Weiser finds that landscaping benefits the City
in the following described ways: There is abundant research available regarding
the benefits of landscaping in communities. This is by no means an exhaustive
summary, but the following are some of the major benefits that our community
would receive through a comprehensive landscape ordinance. Most people think of
landscaping only in terms of aesthetic or beautification benefits, which
certainly exist, but there are also proven economic and environmental benefits
to the community as summarized below:
      1.   Aesthetic benefits:
         a.   Screened parking lots, loading docks, trash receptacles, and
storage areas.
         b.   Reduced glare and reflected light.
         c.   Shade for buildings, streets, and parking lots.
         d.   Defines outdoor spaces.
         e.   Seasonal color, including flowers and fall color.
         f.   Frames and reveals desired views.
         g.   Adds natural elements to otherwise harsh urban development.
         h.   Attracts birds and other urban wildlife.
         i.   Helps maintain the rural feel of the city.
      2.   Economic benefits:
         a.   More profitable business districts.
         b.   Consumers report greater willingness to pay for products in well
landscaped commercial areas.
         c.   Attracts new businesses.
         d.   Encourages redevelopment and economic investment in the local
community.
         e.   Office and retail space lease more quickly.
         f.   Reduces energy consumption for air conditioning, etc.
         g.   Increased residential property values.
      3.   Environmental health and safety benefits:
         a.   Removes particulate pollutants from the air.
         b.   Provides extra oxygen in the atmosphere.
         c.   Removes carbon dioxide from the   air.
         d.   Improves soil condition.
         e.   Purifies water supplies, especially   storm runoff.
         f.   Reduces unwanted noise.
         g.   Controls and directs excessive wind.
         h.   Sight triangles.
   D.   Costs to developers and property owners. The City of Weiser recognizes
that landscaping can be a significant expense to businesses, developers, and
residents. At the same time, landscaping improves the livability of residential
neighborhoods, enhances the appearance and customer attraction of commercial
areas, increases property values, improves the compatibility of adjacent uses,
screens undesirable views, and can reduce air and noise pollution. The intent
of these regulations is to achieve a balance between the right of individuals
to develop and maintain their property in a manner they prefer and the right of
city residents to live, work, shop, and recreate in pleasant, healthy, and
attractive surroundings. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-2: DEFINITIONS.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning: Berm means an earthen mound designed to provide
visual interest, screen undesirable view, and/or decrease noise.
 
BUFFER:
A combination of physical space and vertical elements, including, but not
limited to, trees, shrubs, berms, fences, and/or walls that separate and screen
incompatible land uses from one another.
CALIPER:
A measurement of the diameter of the trunk of a deciduous tree. The caliper of
the trunk shall be measured six inches above the ground for all trees up to and
including four-inch caliper size and 12 inches above the ground for larger
sizes.
CASH ESCROW:
Cash or certified check submitted to the city clerk for incomplete landscape
improvements to secure a temporary certificate of occupancy. The money will be
refunded when the improvements are deemed to be in accordance with the approved
landscape plan.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Official certification that a building and site conform to the provisions of
city ordinance and any other appropriate conditions such as a development
agreement, and/or special use permit. A structure cannot be occupied without
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
CLASS I, II, III, TREES:
The classes of trees are defined for the purposes of this chapter by the
publication “Tree Selection Guide for Streets and Landscapes Throughout Idaho”
by Urban Forestry Unit of Boise Parks and Recreation Department (latest
edition). In general, class I trees are smaller ornamental trees, class II
trees are medium/large trees appropriate for street tree planting, and class
III trees are very large.
COMMON LOT:
A lot separate from individual building lots.
COMMON OPEN SPACE:
Land area exclusive of street rights-of-way and street buffers, except for
right-of-way specifically dedicated for landscaping within subdivision. Street
buffers wider than the required minimum dimension may count 50 percent of the
additional area as open space. Open space may include trees, natural
environmental features, playgrounds, water features, swimming pools, community
centers, and recreational facilities.
ENTRYWAY CORRIDORS:
Arterial roadways that introduce both visitors and residents to Washington
County as defined by the Washington County Comprehensive Plan.
FRONTAGE:
The front of the lot, measured along the street from side property line to side
property line. On corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets shall be considered frontage.
GIRDLING:
Damaging or removing the bark and cambium layer around a tree trunk in a manner
that usually kills the tree.
GROSS LAND AREA:
The total area of the land being developed, exclusive of required street
buffers and buffers between incompatible land uses. The calculation for
required open space in residential subdivisions and multi-family residential
development is based on the gross land area of the land being developed.
HARDSHIP:
An unusual situation on the part of an individual property owner, other than
one created by the owner, which will not permit that owner to enjoy the full
utilization of their property as is enjoyed by others in the community.
HEAD-TO-HEAD SPACING:
Placement of sprinkler heads in a rectangular pattern such that one sprinkler
head sprays to the next (spacing is 50 percent of the sprinkler’s spray
diameter).
HIGHER INTENSITY USE:
When the purpose or activity for which a piece of land or its buildings is
designed, arranged, or intended results in a greater degree of measurable
noise, odor, light, vibration, or other potential public nuisance than an
adjacent property, it shall be deemed a higher intensity use.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:
A surface that has been compacted or covered with a layer of material so that
it is highly resistant to infiltration or absorption by water. It includes
surfaces such as compacted sand or clay as well as most conventionally surfaced
streets, roofs, sidewalks, and parking lots.
INFILL:
Any vacant lot or parcel within developed area of the city, where at least 80
percent of the land within a three-hundred-foot radius of the site has been
developed, and where water, sewer, streets, schools, and fire protection have
already been developed and are provided.
LETTER OF CREDIT:
A letter issued by a bank or other guaranteed financial institution authorizing
the City of Weiser to draw a stated amount of money from the issuing bank under
specific, stated conditions.
MATCH LINES:
A heavy line shown on a plan when it is separated onto two or more sheets. The
lines are labeled the same on each sheet to depict where the sheets join.
MATCHED PRECIPITATION RATES:
Sprinklers that are designed to work together on the same irrigation valve to
deliver an equivalent rate of water application, regardless of the arc of the
nozzle being used.
MICROPATH:
A pathway, not more than 250 feet or two lot depths, with a minimum of ten feet
width of paved surface, providing access by way of a short travel link between
points of destination.
MITIGATION:
An action that will moderate or alleviate the actual or potential loss of
benefits provided to a site and its immediate vicinity by existing trees and
landscaping.
MULCH:
A protective covering placed around plants to prevent the evaporation of
moisture, the freezing of roots, and the growth of weeds.
PARKING LOT OVERLAY:
Any resurfacing of existing parking lot areas with asphalt or other permanent
material, which does not result in an increase of square footage of the parking
area. Parking lot replacement means removal of the existing parking surface
done for the purpose of improvement or repair.
PARKWAY:
Landscaped area located between the edge of a street section or curb and a
sidewalk dedicated to separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
RESTRIPING (PARKING LOT):
Any change in the configuration, size or distribution of existing painted
stripes designed to create spaces for motorized vehicles.
SIGHT TRIANGLE:
The area on either side of an accessway at its junction with a street forming a
triangle within which clear visibility of approaching vehicular or pedestrian
traffic shall be maintained.
SOIL STABILIZATION:
The state of having sufficient vegetation and gradual slopes to prevent soil
erosion and sedimentation onto adjacent features such as sidewalks, driveways,
parking areas, lawns, or water bodies.
STORMWATER SWALE:
A broad, shallow channel covered with erosion resistant vegetation and used to
conduct, infiltrate, and pretreat surface runoff. Maximum slopes are three to
one (3:1). Topping means severely cutting back limbs to stubs within the tree’s
crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
Good pruning practices rarely remove more than one-fourth to one-third of a
tree’s crown. Topping starves the tree of needed nutrients produced by leaves
in the crown, increases vulnerability to insects and disease, creates weak
limbs, rapid new growth, and disfigures the natural shape of the tree. Other
common terms for topping include stubbing, heading, heading back, stubbing off,
tipping, lopping, or round over. Triangular spacing means placement of
sprinkler heads in an equilateral triangular pattern.
UNIMPROVED NATURAL FEATURES:
Existing wetlands, rock outcroppings, groves of trees, and other naturally
occurring features may be left undeveloped in their natural state and may be
counted as open space with approval of the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1268,
10-10-2023)
10-19-3: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   A.   Applicability. A landscape plan is required for all commercial,
institutional, industrial, office, and multi-family development, redevelopment,
additions, or changes in use. A landscape plan is also required for all common
lots in all subdivisions. The landscape plan is required as parts of all
applications for special use permit (SUP), preliminary plat (PP), or final plat
(FP). The landscape plan may be on the same site plan used to show parking
layout, setback compliance, etc. A preliminary landscape plan review is
recommended prior to submission for all developments but is not required. This
chapter does not apply to a single-family dwelling that is not a part of a
larger development.
   B.   Submittal requirements. All landscape plans shall comply with the
requirements for size, scale, number of copies, and contents as detailed in the
application form.
      1.   Applicability. All applications for a final plat (FP) must comply
with all requirements of subsection B4, “Contents”, of this section for a
detailed landscape plan. Applications for special use permit (SUP) and
preliminary plat (PP) are exempt from requirements of subsections B.4.m, B.4.n,
B.4.0, and B.4.p of this section and may instead show conceptual landscaping
with tree locations only and conceptual screening structures; all other
sections of this chapter still apply.
      2.   Plan size and scale. The landscape plan must have a scale no smaller
than one-inch equals 20 feet and be on a standard drawing sheet, not to exceed
36 inches by 48 inches (36" x 48") (24 inches by 36 inches is preferred). A
plan which cannot be drawn in its entirety on a single sheet must be drawn with
appropriate match lines on two or more sheets.
      3.   Number of copies. The administrator shall determine the number of
copies of the landscape plan that shall be submitted.
      4.   Contents. The landscape plan shall comply with the provisions of
this chapter and shall include the following elements:
         a.   Date, scale, north arrow, and title of the project.
         b.   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the developer and the
person/firm preparing the plan.
         c.   Existing boundaries, property lines, and dimensions of the lot.
         d.   Relationship to adjacent properties, streets, and private lanes.
         e.   Easements and right-of-way lines on or adjacent to the lot.
         f.   Existing/proposed zoning of the lot, and the zoning and land use
of all adjacent properties.
         g.   Existing natural features such as canals, creeks, drains, ponds,
wetlands, floodplains, high ground water areas, and rock outcroppings.
         h.   Locations, size, and species of all existing trees on site with
trunks four inches or greater in diameter, measured six inches above the
ground. Indicate whether the tree will be retained or removed.
         i.   A statement of how existing healthy trees proposed to be retained
will be protected from damage during construction.
         j.   Existing buildings, structures, planting areas, light poles,
power poles, walls, fences, berms, parking and loading areas, vehicular drives,
trash areas, sidewalks, pathways, stormwater detention areas, signs, street
furniture, and other manmade elements.
         k.   Existing and proposed contours for all areas steeper than 20
percent slope. Berms shall be shown with one-foot contours.
         l.   Sight triangles as defined in section 10-19-6 of this chapter.
         m.   Location and labels for all proposed plants, including trees,
shrubs, and ground covers.
         n.   A plant list that shows the plant symbol, quantity, botanical
name, common name, minimum planting size and container, and comments (for
spacing, staking, and installation as appropriate).
         o.   Planting and installation details as necessary to ensure
conformance with all required standards.
         p.   Design drawings of all required structures for screening
purposes.
         q.   Calculations of project components to demonstrate compliance with
the requirements of this chapter, including:
            (1)   Special use permit applications:
               (A)   Number of street trees and linear feet of street frontage.
               (B)   Width of street buffers.
               (C)   Width of parking lot perimeter landscape strip.
               (D)   Buffer width between different land uses.
               (E)   Number of parking stalls and percentage of parking area
with internal landscaping.
               (F)   Total number of trees and free species mix.
               (G)   Mitigation for removal of existing trees.
            (2)   PP and FP applications:
               (A)   Width of street buffer, linear’ feet of street frontage,
and number of street frees.
               (B)   Residential subdivision trees.
               (C)   Acreage dedicated to common open space.
               (D)   Number of trees provided on common lot(s).
               (E)   Mitigation for removal of existing trees.
   C.   Landscape plan preparation. Preparing a landscape plan requires special
skills. Landscaping involves more than a simple arrangement of plants with
irrigation; plants are not haphazardly placed in a way that fills up leftover
space. Landscape plans should be artfully and technically organized in a way
that conveys coherence, design, and organization. The landscaping should
enhance the physical environment as well as the project’s aesthetic character.
Also, plans prepared by a landscape professional minimize the likelihood of
trees dying or interfering with other adjacent site features.
   Therefore, all landscape plans shall be prepared by a landscape architect,
landscape designer, qualified nurseryman, or someone knowledgeable in the field
of landscape design.
   D.   Landscape plan modification. The approved landscape plan shall not be
altered without prior approval of the planning and zoning administrator. No
significant field changes to the plan are permitted. Prior written approval of
all material changes is required. All approved changes to the landscape plan
must be documented prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 1268,
10-10-2023)
10-19-4: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Approved plant material. The publication titled “Tree Selection Guide
for Streets and Landscapes Throughout Idaho” by the Urban Forestry Unit of the
Boise Parks and Recreation Department (latest edition) is hereby adopted by
this reference as the City of Weiser list of approved and prohibited plant
material. The publication categorizes the frees by size as class I, class II,
or class III trees. The city recognizes that new plant varieties are being
produced every year and will consider other species not listed in the
publication. Copies of the publication will be available from the planning and
zoning department.
   B.   Prohibited plant material. The plants listed under “trees not permitted
for rights-of-way property planting” are prohibited from being planted along
any street or within any parking lot regulated by this chapter. The only
exception is that conifers may be planted in street buffers around residential
subdivisions, and in buffers along Highway 95.
   C.   Minimum plant sizes. The following are minimum plant sizes for all
required landscape areas:
 
Evergreen trees  4- to 5-foot height minimum
Ornamental frees 1 Z-inch caliper minimum
Shade frees      1 Z’-inch caliper minimum
Woody shrubs     2-gallon pot minimum
 
   D.   Tree species mix. When five or more trees are to be planted to meet the
requirements of any portion of this chapter, including street trees, street
buffers, parking lot landscaping and other landscape guidelines, a mix of
species shall be provided. The number of species to be planted shall vary
according to the overall number of trees required to be planted. See the table
below:
 
Required Number of Trees Minimum Number of Species
5-10                     2
11-30                    3
31-50                    4
50+                      5
 
   E.   Plant quality. All plant material installed pursuant to this chapter
shall meet or exceed the minimum federal standards as regulated by ANSI Z60.1,
American standard for nursery stock.
   F.   Planting standards. All trees, shrubs, and other plant material shall
be planted using accepted nursery standards as published by the American
Association of Nurserymen (latest edition) including hole size, backfilling,
and fertilization.
   G.   Staking. Tree staking may be used in areas with high winds or other
situations that make staking desirable. When trees are staked, the stakes must
be removed within 12 months to prevent damage to the tree.
   H.   Mulch. Unless other materials are approved by the administrator or
Design Review committee, organic mulch such as compost, bark or soil aid shall
be applied to all planting areas for moisture retention, weed control, and
moderation of soil temperatures. Impermeable plastic weed barriers are
prohibited under the mulch because it restricts water and oxygen to the roots.
Unless other materials are approved by the Planning & Zoning administrator or
Design Review committee, gravel/rock mulch is prohibited in required landscape
areas as per subsection M.2 of this section.
   I.   Curbing. All planting areas that border driveways, parking lots, and
other vehicle use areas shall be protected by street curbing, wheel stops, or
other approved protective devices. Such devices shall be a minimum of 30 inches
from all tree trunks to prevent cars from damaging tree trunks.
   J.   Utilities. The following standards apply to the planting of trees near
existing utilities and to trenching for new utilities near existing trees:
      1.   Overhead utilities. Only class I trees in the recommended plant list
may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wires.
      2.   Underground utilities. All trees shall be planted outside of any
easement that contains a power, water, or sewer main, unless written approval
is obtained from the city engineer. If any utility easement precludes trees
required by this chapter, the width of the required buffer shall be increased
to accommodate the required trees.
      3.   Trenching. New underground utilities shall stay outside of the drip
line of existing trees if trenched or be tunneled a minimum of three feet below
existing grade within the tree’s drip line. The guiding principle is that no
root two inches or larger shall be cut. Note: This requirement is for placement
of new utilities and does not affect the property owner’s ability to access
existing utilities for repair and maintenance.
   K.   Erosion control. Soil and slope stabilization shall result from the
landscape installation.
   L.   Berms. Berm slopes shall not exceed three to one (3:1) (horizontal:
vertical). Three to one (3:1) maximum slopes are recommended. Grass that
requires mowing shall not be used on slopes steeper than three to one (3:1).
   M.   Water efficiency. The landscape plan shall provide for water efficient
landscaping as follows:
      1.   Lawn areas. Where appropriate, and on sites where other landscape
options can be incorporated, large expanses of lawn are discouraged due to its
high-water consumption.
      2.   Mulch. Unless other materials are approved by the administrator or
Design Review committee, mulches shall be organic and broad uses of gravel/rock
mulch are restricted as per subsection H of this section. Gravel does not
retain water, reflects heat, and causes greater stress on trees and shrubs.
Organic mulch retains water for a longer period for plants.
      3.   Irrigation. Irrigation systems shall be designed for water
efficiency as regulated by section 9-17-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Native plants. Native and other low water use plants are encouraged.
The approved plant list as per subsection A of this section shows the general
water requirements of the trees. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-5: IRRIGATION:
   A.   Irrigation required. All landscape areas regulated by this chapter
shall be served with an automatic underground irrigation system. If any
irrigation improvements are approved to be located within a public right-of-
way, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain all necessary
permits and/or approvals from the respective road authority prior to
installation.
   B.   Performance specifications. Three copies of detailed irrigation
performance specifications shall be submitted with the landscape plan for all
final plats and certificates of zoning compliance. Performance specifications
shall state design requirements, materials, and construction methods. At a
minimum, the performance specifications shall address the following
requirements:
      1.   Required information. Specifications for the irrigation system shall
include:
         a.   Available gallons per minute.
         b.   Available water pressure; and
         c.   Point of connection.
      2.   Backflow prevention. Provide an appropriate backflow prevention
device that is registered with the public works department.
      3.   Coverage. The irrigation system shall be designed to provide 100
percent coverage with head-to-head spacing or triangular spacing as
appropriate. For design flexibility, maximum spacing is up to 60 percent of the
sprinkler’s spray diameter. Where winds are a threat, spacing up to 40 percent
may be desirable. For triangular spacing, the distance between heads in each
row must be “head-to-head spacing” as per the definition in this section. The
distance between rows is 0.866 times the spacing within the row.
      4.   Matched precipitation rates. Sprinkler heads shall have matched
precipitation rates within each control valve circuit.
      5.   Irrigation zones. Sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high
water demand areas shall be circuited so that they are on a separate zone or
zones from those irrigating trees, shrubs, or other reduced water demand areas.
      6.   Overspray. Sprinkler heads shall be adjusted to reduce overspray
onto impervious surfaces such as sidewalks, driveways, and parking areas.
   C.   Subdivision irrigation systems. If the irrigation system is part of a
residential, commercial, or industrial subdivision, any irrigation pump station
shall be on a common lot. Also, the irrigation system must be owned and
maintained by an irrigation district or a homeowners’ (or business owners’)
association. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-6: SIGHT TRIANGLES:
   A.   Standards. The following standards shall be observed within all sight
triangles, both at controlled and uncontrolled intersections. In all cases,
Idaho Transportation Department (ITD) and Washington County Road Department
standards shall apply in addition to City of Weiser standards.
   B.    Road/road intersections. The bou nda ries of a sight triangle at the
intersection of two roads are defined by measuring from the projected
intersection of the roadway edge a distance of 40 feet along each roadway edge
and connecting the two points with a straight line. (See diagram below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1423.png]
 
   C.   Road/driveway intersections. The boundaries of a sight triangle at the
intersection of a road and a driveway are defined by measuring from the
intersection of the property line and the edge of the driveway 20 feet along
the roadway and ten feet along the driveway and connecting the two points with
a straight line. (See diagram below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1425.png]
 
   D.   Road/railroad intersections. The sight triangle at road/road
intersections (see subsection B of this section) is also applicable to railroad
street crossings with the vision triangle defined by measuring 40 feet along
the railroad property line and 40 feet along the roadway edge and connecting
the two points with a straight line.
   E.   Planting and development standards:
      1.   Any trees planted within sight triangles (class I or II) shall be
pruned to a minimum height of eight feet above the ground or sidewalk surface
and 14 feet above the adjacent roadway surface.
      2.   No evergreen trees shall be planted within any sight triangle.
      3.   No class III trees shall be planted within any sight triangle.
      4.   The maximum height of any berm or vegetative ground cover at
maturity within the sight triangle is three feet.
      5.   No fences higher than three feet are permitted in the sight
triangle.
      6.   No signs taller than three feet are permitted in the sight triangle,
except for street/stop signs approved by the City of Weiser Public Works
Department.
   F.   Public safety and enforcement. When the city determines that a sight
obstruction exists, it shall notify the owner of the property upon which the
obstruction is located and order that the obstruction be removed within 30
days. The failure of the owner to remove the obstruction shall be punishable as
a misdemeanor, and every day the owner fails to remove the obstruction shall be
a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-7: STREET BUFFERS:
   A.   Purpose. Landscape buffers along streets are required to improve the
visual quality of the streetscape, to soften the impact of parking lots, to
unify diverse architecture, and to carry out the comprehensive plan policies
related to promoting attractive roadways and street beautification.
   B.   Location. All required buffers shall be located beyond any street
right-of-way and shall be maintained by the property owner, at the property
owner’s expense, upon which the buffer lies. All street buffers with attached
sidewalks shall be measured from the property line and not from the sidewalk or
curb. If detached sidewalks are provided as per subsection H of this section,
the buffer may be measured from the back of curb when it can be demonstrated
that there is no opportunity for expansion of the street section within the
right-of-way; the buffer width must exclude the width of the sidewalk. No
fences are permitted within required street buffers.
   C.   Applicability. Street buffers shall be required at all subdivision
boundaries (i.e., commercial, industrial, high tech, and residential) and all
commercial, industrial, and high-tech developments. Single-family residential,
and duplex lots are exempt from required street buffers. All subdivision street
buffers must be on a common lot, maintained by a homeowners’ or business
owners’ association, as applicable.
   D.   Buffer size. The required width of the landscape buffer is calculated
as follows. Note: Residential collectors do not have a required street buffer.
 
Street Type                                                       Buffer Width
Local roads (except in residential areas per subsection C of this 10 feet1
section)
Collector and arterial roads                                      15 feet1
   Note:
      1.   If the street buffer is separated by a sidewalk, no less than five
feet of the buffer must be located on the property side of the sidewalk.
   E.   Width reduction. In a development where the required street buffer
width results in an otherwise unavoidable hardship to the property owner, a
written request for a reduction may be submitted to the zoning administrator.
The request must demonstrate evidence of the hardship caused by the required
street buffer and propose a specific alternative width. In no case shall the
width be reduced to less than ten percent of the depth of the lot without a
variance.
   F.   Street trees. All required landscape street buffers shall be planted
with trees and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover, with a minimum
density of one tree per 35 linear feet. If this calculation results in a
fraction 0.5 or greater, round up to an additional tree. If the calculation
results in a fraction less than 0.5, round the number down.
   G.   Tree spacing. For design flexibility, trees may be grouped together or
spaced evenly as desired. However, trees shall be spaced no closer than 80
percent of the average mature width of the trees, as demonstrated in the
following examples:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1427.png]
 
   H.   Parkways and detached sidewalks. Upon written approval of the
respective road authority, a portion of a required street buffer may be located
within a public right-of-way parkway. The minimum buffer widths in subsection D
of this section must still be met provided that no less than five feet of the
required buffer is located on the property side of the sidewalk. The minimum
width of the parkway area between the curb and the sidewalk is five feet. Tree
plantings within parkways less than ten feet wide are restricted to class II
trees.
   I.   Landscaping within right-of-way. If the unimproved street right-of-way
is greater than 13 feet from edge of pavement to edge of sidewalk or property
line, developer shall maintain a ten- foot-wide gravel shoulder and landscape
the remainder with lawn or other vegetative ground cover. This will require an
agreement between the property owner and the City of Weiser Street Department.
   J.   Impervious surfaces. Allowed impervious surfaces include driveways,
signs and walkways. Vehicle display pads and other related impervious surfaces
are prohibited in the required street buffer.
   K.   Berms in street buffers. Berm design is subject to the provisions of
sections
10-19-4 and
10-19-6 E.4 of this chapter.
   L.   Storm-water detention. Stormwater swales may be incorporated into the
buffer as provided for in section
10-19-11 of this chapter. Other stormwater detention and retention facilities
shall not be permitted in the street buffer. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-8: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Right-of-way landscaping. A landscape buffer is required between all
parking lots and adjacent streets as regulated by section
10-19-7, street buffers, of this chapter.
   B.   Perimeter landscaping. The following standards apply to all interior
lot lines, side, or rear, adjacent to parking lots or other vehicular use
areas, including driveways:
      1.   Purpose. Perimeter landscaping defines parking, loading, and other
vehicular use areas and prevents two adjacent lots from becoming one large
expanse of paving. This requirement does not hinder the ability to provide
vehicular access between lots, nor does it prohibit commercial or industrial
developments with back-to-back truck docks from sharing paved loading areas.
      2.   Size and location. Provide a five-foot minimum perimeter landscape
strip along all front lot lines and side lot lines to the rear of any building
on the lot.
      3.   Landscaping. The perimeter landscape strip shall be planted with one
tree per 35 linear feet and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
   C.   Internal landscaping. Interior parking lot landscaping shall be
required on any parking lot with more than 12 spaces.
      1.   Required percentage. The required amount of landscaping is based on
a sliding scale as follows:
 
Total Number of Parking Spaces Percent of Total Area of a Parking Lot that Must
                               be an Interior Landscaped Area
13-100                         4 percent
101-200                        6 percent
201 +                          8 percent
 
      2.   Planter size. Landscape planters shall contain a minimum of 50
square feet and the planting area shall not be less than five feet in any
dimension, measured inside curbs. The only exception to the five-foot minimum
dimension is at the tip of triangular planters located at the end of rows of
angled parking.
      3.   Parking spaces. No linear grouping of parking spaces shall exceed 15
in a row, without an internal planter island.
      4.   Parking lot layout. Interior landscaping shall, insofar as possible,
be used to delineate and guide major traffic movement within the parking area
to prevent cross space driving. Interior landscape planters shall be spaced as
evenly as feasible and at the ends of rows of parking throughout the lot to
consistently reduce the visual impact of long rows of parked cars.
      5.   Trees required. Each interior planter that serves a single row of
parking spaces shall be landscaped with at least one tree and shall be covered
with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover. Each interior planter
that serves a double row of parking spaces shall have at least two trees and
shall be covered with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
Deciduous shade trees must be pruned to a minimum height of eight feet above
the adjacent parking areas. Evergreen trees and class III trees are prohibited
in interior planters.
      6.   Design flexibility. In parking areas where the strict application of
subsection C.1. of this section will seriously limit the function and
circulation of the lot, up to 50 percent of the required landscaping may be
located near the perimeter of the paved area to emphasize entrance corridors or
special landscape areas within the general parking area. Such required interior
landscaping which is relocated shall be in addition to perimeter landscape and
right-of-way screening requirements.
      7.   Industrial exclusion. Industrial parking, storage, and loading areas
are specifically excluded from the interior landscape requirements but shall
still be required to meet all perimeter and right-of-way landscape and
screening requirements.
   D.   Existing parking lot applicability. Existing parking lots shall be
required to conform to this section based upon the following guidelines:
      1.   For restriping, parking lot overlays, or parking lot replacement
less than 25 percent, no additional landscaping shall be required.
      2.   For parking lot replacement that is 25 percent to 50 percent of the
parking area, perimeter and right-of-way landscaping as required by this
chapter shall be installed.
      3.   For parking lot replacement that is greater than 50 percent of the
parking area, all current landscape standards of this chapter shall be met.
      4.   If the location of existing building or other structures prevents
conformance with the requirements of this section, or if its implementation
would create a nonconformity with parking standards, the zoning administrator
shall determine how the code is to be applied. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-9: BUFFERS BETWEEN DIFFERENT LAND USES:
   A.   Purpose. The landscape requirements in this section are intended to
ensure incompatible, adjoining land uses are adequately protected and are
provided with an appropriate amount of land separation to conduct permitted
uses without causing adverse impact. An “incompatible land use” is defined as
one that is more intensely developed than its neighbor (as defined herein under
subsection D of this section) and typically involves minimizing potential
nuisances such as noise, dirt, litter, glare of lights, or other objectionable
activities. The buffers are required along the entire contiguous property line.
   B.   Responsibility for buffer construction. The required buffer between
different land uses shall be provided by the higher intensity use and shall be
located on the building site of the higher intensity use, except as determined
otherwise by the zoning administrator after written request. If a lower
intensity use is proposed adjacent to an existing higher intensity use with no
buffer, the lower intensity use must provide the required buffer.
   C.   Puffer material. The materials within the required buffer between
incompatible land uses are regulated as follows:
      1.   Mix of materials. All buffer areas shall be comprised of, but not
limited to, a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs, lawn, or other
vegetative ground cover. Fences, walls and berms may also be incorporated into
the buffer area.
      2.   Barrier effectiveness. The required buffer area shall result in an
effective barrier within three years and be maintained such that 60 percent or
more of the vertical surface is closed and prevents the passage of vision
through it. Trees may be spaced closer as necessary to achieve this goal.
      3.   Buffer walls. Where existing or proposed adjacent land uses cannot
be adequately buffered with plant material(s), the city may require inclusion
of a wall, fence, or other type of screen that mitigates noise and/or unsightly
uses. If a wall or fence at least six feet tall is provided, the planting
requirement may be reduced to at least one tree per 35 linear feet, plus
shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover must be provided within the
buffer area, in lieu of the requirements of subsection C.2. of this section.
      4.   Chain-link fencing. Chain-link or cyclone fencing, with or without
slats, is prohibited within required buffers between different land uses.
Chain-link may be used beyond the required buffer. Chain-link fencing does not
qualify as a screening material; therefore, the buffer must still be landscaped
as per subsection C.2. of this section, even if a chain-link fence is provided.
   D.   Land use intensity classifications. The table below is intended to
provide a general classification of land use intensities for commonly proposed
developments and is not a comprehensive list. If a land use is not listed, the
intensity classification shall be determined by the zoning administrator based
upon the nearest use listed.
   Class I
      Cemeteries
      Duplexes
      Golf courses
      Parks
      Single-family homes
      Vacant land zoned: R-l and R-2
   Class II
      Childcare facilities
      Elementary schools
      Libraries
      Multi-family dwellings
      Senior centers
      Vacant land zoned: R-3 and R-4
   Class III
      Clinics
      High schools
      Middle schools
      Neighbor comm.
      Offices
      Personal services
      Quasi-public uses
   Class IV
      General retail
      Grocery stores
      Hotel/motel
      Indoor manufacturing
      Parking garages
      Restaurants
      Storage facilities
      Vacant land zoned: C
      Warehouses
   Class V
      Contractor yards
      Heavy manufacturing
      Processing plants
      Recycling
      Vacant land zoned: I
   E.   Minimum buffer widths. The minimum buffer width between incompatible
land uses is based on the following table:
 
Intensity Class Intensity Class of Adjacent Use
of Proposed Use I  II III IV V
I
II              20
III             20 20
IV              25 20 20
V               35 30 25  20
   Notes:
      1.   Buffer widths are shown in feet.
      2.   No buffer is required for blank cells, unless an existing, adjacent,
and higher intensity use has not provided a buffer. In such cases, the lower
intensity use must provide the buffer as per subsection B of this section.
      3.   The buffers between land uses are required only along contiguous lot
lines. If incompatible land uses are across a public street from one another,
the street buffer requirements of section
10-19-7 of this chapter apply. Additionally, the buffers between land uses do
not apply to incompatible land uses separated by a public alley unless
otherwise required through a special use permit or other development permit
application.
   F.   Pedestrian access. Landscaping and screens shall not eliminate
pedestrian access from residential development to abutting commercial districts
and vice versa.
   G.   Existing partial buffers. If all or any part of the buffer has been
provided on the adjacent property, the proposed use must provide only that
amount of the buffer which has not been provided on the adjacent property.
   H.   Relationship to parking lot perimeter requirements. All buffers between
different land uses may include any required perimeter parking lot landscape
strips (see section
10-19-8. B of this chapter) when calculating the minimum width of the buffer.
(Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-10: PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES:
   A.   Purpose. This section is intended to preserve existing trees four-inch
caliper or greater from destruction during the development process.
   B.   Site design. Site plans shall make all feasible attempts to accommodate
existing trees four-inch caliper or greater within their design.
   C.   Landscape plan. All existing trees greater than a four-inch caliper
shall be shown on the landscape plan as per section
10-19-3. B.4.h. of this chapter. Indicate whether each tree is to be retained
or removed. Include on the plan a description of how existing trees to be
retained are to be protected during construction as per section
10-19-3. B.4.i. of this chapter.
   D.   Protection during construction. Existing trees that are retained shall
be protected from damage to bark, branches, and roots during construction.
Construction, excavation, or fill occurring within the drip line of any
existing tree may severely damage it. Any severely damaged tree shall be
replaced in accordance with subsection F of this section.
   E.   Construction within the drip line of existing trees. Specific
requirements for construction within the drip line of existing trees are as
follows;
      1.   Paving. Whenever possible, impervious paving surfaces shall remain
outside of the drip line of existing trees. When it is not possible, impervious
surfaces shall be allowed at a distance from the truck of a retained tree equal
to the diameter of the tree trunk plus five feet.
      2.   Grade changes. Grade changes greater than six inches are prohibited
within the drip line of existing trees.
      3.   Compaction. Most of the damage to trees caused by machinery occurs
to the root system from compaction of the soil. A simple fence or barrier that
encloses the entire area beneath the tree canopy shall be in place prior to
construction.
      4.   Utilities. New underground utilities to be placed within the drip
line of existing trees shall be installed as per section
10-19-4. J.3. of this chapter.
   F.   Mitigation trees. Mitigation is required for all existing frees four-
inch caliper or greater that are removed from the site with equal replacement
of the total calipers lost on site. Example: Two, ten-inch caliper trees
removed may be mitigated with four, five-inch caliper trees, five, four-inch
caliper trees, or seven, three-inch caliper frees. Existing prohibited trees
within the street buffer or parking lot need not be mitigated if they are
removed. Existing dead, dying, or hazard frees need not be mitigated if they
are removed. Trees that are required to be removed by another governmental
agency having jurisdiction over the project need not be mitigated for.
   G.   Required landscaping. Existing trees that are retained or relocated on
site may count toward the required landscaping. Mitigation trees are in
addition to all other landscaping required by this chapter.
   H.   Incentives. The zoning administrator may allow a reduction of up to ten
percent of the required parking spaces to accommodate existing trees. Approval
of the reduction in required parking must be obtained in wilting prior to
submittal of plans. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-11: STORMWATER INTEGRATION:
   A.   Purpose. The city encourages the incorporation of vegetated, well
designed stormwater filtration swales into required landscape areas where
topography and hydrologic features allow. Such integrated site designs can
improve water quality and provide a natural, effective form of flood and water
pollution control.
   B.   Design guidelines. Below are requirements for designing a landscape
area that integrates stormwater facilities. The planning and zoning commission
and the City of Weiser Public Works Department should be involved in the
initial design and determining the appropriateness of any site.
      1.   Stormwater swales incorporated into required landscape areas shall
be vegetated with grass or other appropriate plant materials. They shall also
be designed to accommodate the required number of trees as per this chapter if
located in a street buffer or other required landscape area.
      2.   A rock sump may be incorporated into a vegetated swale to facilitate
drainage. The rock sump inlet may not exceed more than five feet in any
horizontal dimension. Grates for sand/grease interceptors may also be
incorporated, but the inlet structures may not exceed two feet in any
horizontal dimension.
      3.   Gravel, rock, or cobble stormwater facilities are not permitted on
the surface of required landscape areas. Cobble may be incorporated into
required landscape areas if designed as a dry creek bed or other design
feature.
      4.   Plant materials shall be a species that is able to withstand the
anticipated changes in soil wetness and moisture levels.
      5.   Organic mulch shall not be used against drainage catch basins due to
potential sediment clogging.
      6.   Open water ponds and holding areas with a permanent water level are
not permitted in required landscape or buffer areas. However, ponds that are
aesthetically designed with special grading and vegetative features may be
approved as provided for in section
10-19-15, alternative compliance, of this chapter.
      7.   Slopes must be less than three to one (3:1) (horizontal: vertical)
for accessibility and maintenance.
      8.   The stormwater facility must be designed free draining with no
standing water within 24 hours of the completion of a storm event in accordance
with best management practices. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-12: MICROPATH LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote trees and other
landscaping along micropaths developed within the city. The required
landscaping will provide shade and visual interest along the micropaths.
   B.   Applicability. Whenever micropaths are developed within a subdivision
or connecting from one subdivision to another subdivision or other
destinations, the landscaping standards within this section shall apply.
   C.   Planter -width. A landscape strip a minimum of five feet wide shall be
provided along both sides of the path. Additional width is encouraged to allow
trees to be planted farther from the pathway and prevent root damage to the
path.
   D.   Required plants. The landscape strips shall be planted with a minimum
of one deciduous tree per 35 linear feet and shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative
ground cover.
   E.   Tree branching height. Trees along the pathway shall be pruned with a
clear branching height of at least eight feet above the path surface.
   F.   Shrub height. Shrubs are limited to three feet high or less at mature
size to allow for safety provisions and sight distance.
   G.   Mulch. The solitary use of mulches such as bark alone without
vegetative ground covers is prohibited. Mulch under the trees and shrubs is
required as per section
10-19-4.H. of this chapter.
   H.   Prohibited trees. No evergreen trees or class III trees shall be
planted within the required landscape strip due to safety, sight distance, and
maintenance concerns.
   I.   Fences. Fences adjacent to a micropath landscape strip are recommended
to be “see through” as it provides better visibility from adjacent homes or
buildings. If solid fencing is used, it shall not exceed six feet in height.
The developer is responsible for the construction of the fences adjacent to all
micropaths. The fence restrictions shall be included as a note on all final
plats that include a micropath. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-13: RESERVED:
10-19-14: LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Purpose. All required landscaping must be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition at all times.
   B.   Responsibility. The property owner is responsible for the maintenance
of all landscaping and screening devices required by this chapter.
   C.   Maintenance defined. “Maintenance” shall include watering, weeding,
pruning, mowing, litter removal, pest control, and removal/repair of vandalism
as needed to maintain a neat and orderly appearance.
   D.   Topping prohibited. It shall be unlawful to top any street tree
required by this chapter.
   E.   Tree grates. Tree grates must be widened to accommodate the growing
tree trunk and prevent girdling of any trees planted in tree wells within
sidewalks or other public right-of-way.
   F.   Dead and diseased plant materials. Plant materials which exhibit
evidence of insect pests, disease, and/or damage shall be appropriately treated
to correct the problem. Dead plant materials shall be replaced.
   G.   Open ponds and waterways. Open ponds and waterways when used as pail of
the landscape plan require a developed a pest control abatement program
approved by the City and a water filtering maintenance program.
   H.   Inspections. All landscaping required by this chapter will be subject
to periodic inspections by city officials to determine compliance or to
investigate complaints made against the property.
   I.   Enforcement. Where any property owner to which this chapter applies
fails to maintain the required trees, landscaping, or screening devices, the
city may issue a written notice requiring the owner to replace any dead or
dying trees or other plant materials that were required by their approved
landscape plan or by this chapter; repair or replace any required screening
devices that have been destroyed, removed, or are in a state of disrepair;
remove weeds; or perform any other action necessary to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   J.   Penalty. The owner shall comply with the provisions of the written
notice within 60 days of the issuance of the notice. Failure of the owner to
comply with the notice within the specified time frame shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor; and every day the owner fails to comply shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
   K.   Extension. The zoning administrator may grant an extension of time
beyond the required 60-day period due to seasonal or adverse weather conditions
which make replanting or replacement impractical. In no case shall the
extension exceed six months.
   L.   Contract options. If the site is not maintained as required, the City
of Weiser has the right to declare the property a nuisance and contract
maintenance at the expense of the property owner. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-15: ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Purpose. The intent of this section is to encourage creative solutions
to land use problems. The city recognizes that the specific requirements of
this chapter cannot and do not anticipate all possible landscape situations. In
addition, the City of Weiser recognizes that there may be landscape proposals
which conform to the purpose, intent, and objectives of the landscape
regulations but were not anticipated in the specific regulations. Therefore,
the administrator of planning and zoning may allow for a method of alternative
compliance in the event of these situations.
   B.   Conditions. Requests for alternative compliance are allowed only when
one or more of the following conditions are met:
      1.   Topography, soil, vegetation, or other site conditions are such that
full compliance is impossible or impractical.
      2.   The site involves space limitations or an unusually shaped lot.
      3.   Due to a change of use on an existing site, the required landscape
buffer is larger than can be provided.
      4.   Additional environmental quality improvements would result from the
alternative compliance.
      5.   Safety considerations make alternative compliance desirable.
      6.   Other regulatory agencies or departments having jurisdiction are
requiring design standards that conflict with the requirements of this chapter.
      7.   The applicant is proposing a pond with a permanent water level in a
required landscape area.
   C.   Submittal requirements. The following items are required to apply for
alternative compliance. Note: If a project is being submitted as a Planned Unit
Development, a separate application for alternative compliance is not required.
      1.   A written request for alternative compliance shall be submitted to
the planning and zoning commission prior to submittal of the development
application. The request shall state:
         a.   The ordinance requirements that are proposed to be modified.
         b.   The project conditions in subsection B of this section which
justify the proposed alternative; and
         c.   How the proposed alternative meets or exceeds the intent of said
requirement.
      2.   A conceptual site plan and other information as necessary to
illustrate    the proposed method of alternative compliance.
      3.   An application fee as set by the Weiser City Council.
   D.   Authority to vary on a case-by-case basis the required landscaping
where an alternative requirement would address unique site conditions and allow
design flexibility while still serving the intent of this chapter.
   E.   Variance. If compliance with this chapter is not possible and there is
no feasible proposal for alternative compliance which is, in the judgment of
the planning administrator, equal or better than normal compliance, the
applicant must apply for a variance in accordance with the provision of
chapter 14 of Title 10. The applicant may also appeal the decision to the
Weiser City Council by filing an appeal with the city clerk’s office.
   F.   Precedent. Alternative compliance shall not be limited to the specific
project under consideration and shall not establish precedent for acceptance in
other cases.
   G.   Timeline. The zoning administrator or the administrator’s designee
shall respond to the applicant within 15 working days regarding acceptance or
denial of the proposed alternative. (Ord. 1268, 10-10-2023)
10-19-16: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. All required landscaping and site
improvements must be installed according to the approved landscape plan prior
to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy. Private site improvements that
are above and beyond the requirements placed on the application do not require
completion prior to occupancy; for example, a clubhouse in a residential
subdivision need not be completed prior to occupancy of residences in the
subdivision.
   B.   Extension of time for compliance. The zoning administrator or building
official may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a specified time
period, not to exceed 180 days when, due to weather or other circumstances, the
landscaping or other required site amenities cannot be completed. Whenever a
temporary certificate of occupancy is issued, the following shall apply:
      1.   Letter of credit, certified check, or cash deposit. An irrevocable
bank letter of credit, certified check, or cash deposit for 150 percent of the
cost of materials and installation must be filed with the city clerk prior to
issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy. A formal bid must accompany
the irrevocable bank letter of credit, certified check, or cash deposit. The
irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be effective for the minimum period
determined by the council. The irrevocable bank letter of credit, certified
check or cash deposit will not be released until all landscaping and other site
amenities are completed as shown on the approved site plan.
      2.   Permission to enter property. Any property owner wishing to make
arrangements with the city for a temporary certificate of occupancy must also
allow the city to enter upon the land for the purposes of installing the
required landscaping and other site improvements in the event the landscaping
is not in place when the temporary certificate of occupancy expires. (Ord.
1268, 10-10-2023)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Interpretation
11-1-6: Administration
11-1-7: Combining Of Permits
11-1-8: Severability
11-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the WEISER SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS, hereinafter referred to as the subdivision title. (Ord. 846, 9-29-
1975)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code, as
amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the area.
   B.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with other
existing or planned streets or roads.
   C.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation.
   D.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities.
   E.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services.
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   F.   The requirements to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved.
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed.
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   H.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of all land within the
incorporated limits of the city, including the property within one mile outside
the corporate limits or as mutually defined by both city and county 1  under
the requirements of section 50-1306, Idaho Code, as amended or subsequently
codified. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 16 of this code for the area of city impact.
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions as herein defined shall be submitted to the commission for
recommendation and forwarded to the mayor and city council for their action.
Subdivisions shall comply with all of the provisions of these regulations.
These regulations shall supplement all other regulations and where at variance
with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor and city council shall appoint a building and zoning official to
carry out the provisions as specified and to serve at the pleasure of the mayor
and city council. The building and zoning official shall receive and process
all subdivision applications and make recommendations to the commission as
necessary. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
11-1-7: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The mayor and city council may coordinate with other departments and agencies
concerning all permits which may be required in this title and previously or
subsequently adopted city ordinances. A one stop permit application and
processing procedure may be developed with the respective departments and
agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding, confusion and
unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section or other part of
these regulations are held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
11-2-2: Meanings Of Terms Or Words
11-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive, and the word
"should" is preferred.
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-2-2: MEANINGS OF TERMS OR WORDS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The building and zoning enforcement officer appointed by the
mayor and city council to administer this title.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for commercial
or industrial uses, or any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.
BUILDING SETBACK LINES: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1307.gif]
 
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the burial
of animal or human remains.
CITY: Political subdivision having jurisdiction of the parcel of land under
consideration.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission appointed by the mayor and city
council 1 .
COMMITTEE: That technical committee, appointed by the mayor and city council
upon recommendation from the commission, to assist with the technical
evaluation of subdivisions and to make recommendations to the commission. The
membership of the committee may include the city superintendent, administrator,
a member of the public works department and persons that are engaged in either
private or public work with specific knowledge in the following areas:
   A.   Road design and construction.
   B.   Sewer and water facility design and construction.
   C.   Health requirements for water and sewer facilities.
   D.   Environmental planning criteria such as geology, water systems,
vegetation and noise.
   E.   Solid waste.
   F.   Recreational and open space.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan. The document shall show
the general location and extent of present and proposed development, including,
but not limited to, housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks,
schools and other community facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: A multi-unit structure that has undivided interest and individual
ownership or a combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The city council of the municipal governing body.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street or road or
driveway.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the city.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DRIVEWAY: A private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a lot as used for
common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
FLOODPLAIN 2 : The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency. The floodplain includes
the channel, floodway and floodway fringe, as established per the engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers as follows:
Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by overflow
from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
Flood Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway. Such
areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will be inundated by
a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency but which may be developed when
such development will not have a significant effect upon the floodwater
carrying capacity of the floodway and the floodwater levels. Such areas are
characterized by shallow flood depths and low velocities of water flow.
Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of any watercourse.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1309.gif]
 
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and city council of the incorporated city of Weiser,
Idaho.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
INTERSTATE HIGHWAY: A major interstate highway designated for the purpose of
carrying fast and/or heavy traffic.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision, the size of which consists of fifty
(50) or more lots or dwelling units.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable size as required in
these regulations and the existing zoning ordinance 3  and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
   A.   Corner lot is a lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets.
   B.   Interior lot is a lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only
one street.
   C.   Through lot is a lot with frontage on more than one street other than a
corner lot.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units on its (their) own wheels and designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s)
without a permanent foundation. The phrase "without a permanent foundation"
indicates that the support system is constructed with the intent that the
mobile home placed thereon will be moved from time to time at the convenience
of the owner.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive
mobile home residential use.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized from pipe or iron
or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lots or street lines, as
specified by section 50-1303, Idaho Code.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive
of streets, buildings or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat of record on
file in the office of the county recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel
of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date of this
title.
OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation having any interest in the land to be subdivided.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the city clerk or recorder with guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body regarding an
approved plat and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply
with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay
damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the
requirements of the approved plat.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a combination
of residential, commercial and industrial uses planned for a tract of land to
be developed as a unit under single ownership or control which is developed for
the purpose of selling individual lots or estates, whether fronting on private
or dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or more principal buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1311.gif]
 
PLANNING COMMISSION: See definition of Commission.
PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or
other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals.
Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by drawings of an approved
subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed with the
county clerk and recorder and city clerk (hard copy).
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as specified in this title or as
officially adopted by the city.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place and other such terms.
Alley: A street providing secondary access at the back or side of a property
otherwise abutting a street.
Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from minor
streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and provided
with a turnaround space at its terminus.
Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to
provide access to abutting properties.
Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance which
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1313.gif]
 
SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The subdivider need not be the owner of the property;
however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient proprietary
rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into three (3) or more parts with any one part which is five (5) acres
or less for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development which may also
include the dedication of public streets and the addition to, or creation of a
cemetery. However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
   B.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property.
   C.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code, sections 50-1401 through 50-1409.
   D.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan.
   E.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
   F.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
   G.   Individual lot sizes greater than five (5) acres.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to
do professional surveying.
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE: See definition of Committee.
TITLE: The subdivision ordinance of the city of Weiser, Idaho.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
2 1. See also the provisions of title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
3 1. See title 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
11-3-1: Subdivision Approval Required
11-3-2: Preapplication
11-3-3: Preliminary Plat
11-3-4: Final Plat
11-3-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications, preapplication, preliminary plat and final plat to
the administrator. No final plat shall be filed with the county recorder or
improvements made on the property until the plat has been acted upon by the
commission and approved by the mayor and city council. No lots shall be sold
until the plat has been recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord.
846, 9-29-1975)
11-3-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Application: The subdivider may submit a preapplication to enable the
administration to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication shall include at least one copy of the sketch plan. The sketch
plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision,
in schematic form and including the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimension of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of land on and adjacent
to the proposed subdivision site.
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   B.   Fee: None required.
   C.   Administrator Action: The administrator shall notify the subdivider
within fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving an acceptable
preapplication as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal
with this title and shall provide the necessary forms and checklists, as well
as the additional following concerns:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
policies, goals and objectives or comprehensive plans.
      2.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinance conflicts
such as rezone, special development permit or variance are needed and the
manner of coordinating such permits.
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique of plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight patterns and the like.
      4.   Consideration of other local and state agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the administrator a
completed preliminary plat application form and preliminary plat data as
required in this title.
   B.   Combining Preliminary And Final Plats: The applicant may request that
the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat
if all of the following exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots.
      2.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved.
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development or the like.
      4.   All required information for both preliminary and final plats is
complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the commission upon recommendation by the technical
review committee.
   C.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat: The contents of the preliminary plat and
related information shall be in such a form as stipulated by the commission;
however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the administrator may
also be required.
The subdivider shall submit to the administrator at least the following:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
stated; each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall
have dimensions of not less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon by arrow
the general northerly direction.
      2.   Preliminary Engineering Plans: Six (6) sets of preliminary
engineering plans (not meant to be cross sections or detailed designs) for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements;
however, such engineering plans shall contain sufficient information and detail
to enable the technical review committee to make a determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and standards.
      3.   Written Application: A written application requesting approval of
the preliminary plat.
      4.   Development Within Any Special Development Areas: Appropriate
information that sufficiently details the proposed development within any
special development area such as hillside, planned unit development,
floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development, hazardous and
unique areas of development. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
      5.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus twenty five dollars ($25.00) per lot
shall be paid to the administrator. There shall be no additional fee for the
combining of the preliminary and final plats; however, a final plat fee shall
also apply and be paid. An engineering fee of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) shall be paid to the administrator upon the submission of the
preliminary plat. Should the actual engineering costs exceed one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), then the applicant shall pay the additional
engineering costs prior to the filing of the final plat.
For those plats which satisfy the requirements of subsection B of this section,
the applicant shall pay an engineering fee of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Should the actual engineering costs exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), then the applicant shall pay those actual engineering costs
prior to the filing of the final plat. (Ord. 1049, 3-10-1997)
   D.   Requirement Of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county
assessor's office.
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision.
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as
residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational or agricultural and a showing of sites proposed for
parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radium, scale optional).
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land.
      9.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways.
      10.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each.
      11.   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope
is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land
slope is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established bench mark,
including location and elevation.
      12.   Any proposed or existing utilities including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, culverts,
water mains, fire hydrants and their respective profiles.
      13.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      14.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such.
      15.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in chapter 6 of this title.
      16.   A statement as to whether or not a variance as specified in chapter
8 of this title will be requested with respect to any provision of this title
describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and the reasons
therefor.
      17.   State what type of water system and sewage system is proposed.
   E.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. He shall, thereafter, place the preliminary plat on the agenda for
consideration at the next meeting of the technical review committee which is
held no less than ten (10) days after said date of certification nor more than
forty five (45) days thereafter.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. Such
agencies may include the following:
         a.   The technical review committee members.
         b.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
         c.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts.
         d.   The superintendent of the school district.
         e.   Other agencies having interest in the proposed subdivision as
suggested on the application form.
      3.   Administrator Review: Upon expiration of the time allowance for
department and agency review, the administrator shall prepare a recommendation
to the technical review committee or the commission.
   F.   Technical Review Committee Recommendation:
      1.   The technical review committee may, upon request from the
commission, review the preliminary plat from the viewpoint of the technical
disciplines represented on the committee.
      2.   The committee, when requested, shall make recommendation to the
commission on each preliminary plat and on each special request that is made by
the subdivider. The committee's recommendation shall include how deficiencies
or shortcomings of the preliminary plat might be overcome.
      3.   The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular commission meeting.
   G.   Public Notification; Notification To Property Owners: The administrator
shall notify all adjoining property owners, names and addresses that have been
provided by the subdivider. Such written notification shall be mailed at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the commission meeting.
   H.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within a reasonable time following the
committee's recommendation, the commission shall review the preliminary plat,
the report from the committee, comments from concerned persons and agencies and
the report from the administrator to arrive at a decision on the preliminary
plat.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan.
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program.
         d.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
         e.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur at the regular meeting. The action and the
reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the administrator and
forwarded to the applicant. The administrator shall also forward a statement of
the action taken and the reasons for such action, together with a copy of the
preliminary plat to the mayor and city council for their information and
record.
      4.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the commission's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision, then a
recommendation shall be forwarded to the mayor and city council in the same
manner as herein specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend that
the combined application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved.
   I.   Appeals: Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or in
writing before the commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the
decision of the commission relative to the final action taken by the
commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the mayor and city council within
ten (10) days from such commission action.
   J.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat by the administrator within one year after action by the
commission shall cause all approvals of the preliminary plat to be null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted
by the commission.
      2.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner and conforms
substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if submitted
within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final approval
without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel or any part thereof
to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator the
following:
      1.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a final plat, a
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the administrator.
      2.   Copies Of Final Plat: Three (3) copies of the final plat.
      3.   Copies Of Final Engineering Construction Drawings: Three (3) copies
of the final engineering construction drawings for streets, water, sewers,
sidewalks and other public improvements.
   B.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code
and shall be drawn at such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to
enable the same to be placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch
(18" x 24") drawing paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than
one inch (1"). The reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of
the drawing but may contain written matter as to dedications, certifications
and other information. The final plat shall include at least the following:
      1.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the commission.
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat.
      3.   Such other information as the administrator or commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat.
      4.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof.
      5.   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title.
      6.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
      7.   Acceptable sanitary restrictions.
      8.   An eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") copy of the
plat shall accompany this final plat.
   C.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the administrator determines that there is substantial difference in
the final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted to the technical review committee and the commission in the same
manner as required in the preliminary plat process.
      3.   Submission To The Mayor And Council: Upon the determination that the
final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the
agenda of the mayor and city council within forty five (45) days from the date
that an acceptable final plat application was received and acknowledged by the
administrator.
   D.   Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat or other documents submitted for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and
the legal review of the performance bond.
   E.   Mayor/City Council Action: The mayor and city council at their next
meeting following receipt of the administrator's report shall consider the
commission's findings and comments from concerned persons and agencies to
arrive at a decision on the final plat. The mayor and city council shall
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the final plat for
additional information within thirty (30) days of the date of the regular
meeting at which the plat is first considered. A copy of the approved plat
shall be filed with the administrator.
   F.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one year after written approval by the mayor and city council;
otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless prior to said
expiration date an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the mayor and city council.
   G.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the mayor and
city council, the subdivider shall submit the final plat to the county recorder
for recording along with the following: certification and signature of the
mayor and president of the city council, verifying that the subdivision has
been approved. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
11-4-2: Dedication
11-4-3: Location
11-4-4: Specifications
11-4-5: Street Names
11-4-6: Intersections
11-4-7: Pedestrian Walkways
11-4-8: Easements
11-4-9: Blocks
11-4-10: Lots
11-4-11: Planting Strips
11-4-12: Public Sites And Open Spaces
11-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher
standards adopted by any highway district, state highway department, federal
agencies or health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 846,
9-29-1975)
11-4-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets as shown on the
comprehensive plan shall be dedicated to the public in all cases; in general,
all other streets shall also be dedicated to public use. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangements: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   B.   Minor Streets: Shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future extension of said
streets in adjacent areas.
   D.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
Dedicated alleys shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20') and be
completed by the subdivider.
   F.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial street or such other treatment as
is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to
separate through traffic from local traffic.
   G.   Cul-De-Sac: Cul-de-sac or dead end streets, designed to be so
permanently, shall not be longer than five hundred feet (500') and shall be
provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside of eighty feet
(80') curb face to curb face and a street property line diameter of at least
one hundred feet (100').
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1315.gif]
 
   H.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   I.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads are discouraged except
within planned unit developments. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Rights Of Way:
      1.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths
shall conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development
plan and the rules of the state department of highways and highway district or
department having jurisdiction.
      2.   Minimum Right Of Way Standards: Minimum right of way standards are
as follows: Street right of way width is to be measured from property line to
property line.
 
Highway And Street Types Widths         Face To Face Of Curb
Expressway or freeway    160 - 260 feet 140 - 240 feet
Major arterial           120 feet       100 feet
Minor arterial           80 feet        60 feet
Collector street         60 feet        40 feet
Minor street             50 feet        30 feet
Alley                    20 feet        20 feet
 
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either minor or collector streets and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
(Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
   C.   Horizontal Street Alignment: Horizontal street alignment shall be as
follows: When street lines deflect from each other by more than ten degrees
(10°) in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by a curve having a
minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial streets, three hundred
feet (300') for collector streets and one hundred feet (100') for all others.
Between reverse curves on collector and arterial streets there shall be a
minimum tangent distance of two hundred feet (200').
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1317.gif]
 
(Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
11-4-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
city except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street; street
names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets
shall not be used.
   B.   Streets having a predominate north and south direction shall be
numbered consecutively with existing streets. Streets having a predominately
east-west direction shall be named "streets". Meandering streets shall be
called "avenues". Cul-de-sacs shall be named "circles" or "places". (Ord. 846,
9-29-1975)
11-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy five degrees (75°).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1319.gif]
 
   B.   Sight Triangle: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   T-Intersections: T-intersections may be used wherever such design will
not restrict the free movement of traffic.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1321.gif]
 
   E.   Centerline Offsets: Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of
at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1323.gif]
 
   F.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain will be permitted.
(Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary by city engineers and the
planning commission. Total easement width shall not be less than twelve feet
(12'). (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-9: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary; blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long in all
cases. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-10: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action.
   B.   Urban Construction Standards: Urban construction standards shall apply
to the minimum lot size as specified by the Idaho department of health.
   C.   Conformance To Zoning Regulations: All lots shown on the subdivision
plat must conform to the minimum requirements of the zoning regulations.
   D.   Side Lines Of Lots: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to the street lines unless a variation will give a better street and lot
plan.
   E.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots shall be prohibited except
where unusual topography or other conditions make it impossible to meet this
requirement.
   F.   Remnants Of Lots: All remnants of lots below minimum size leftover
after the subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots rather
than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   G.   Number Of Lots: All lots shall be numbered by progressive numbers in
each block separately; blocks shall also be numbered consecutively throughout
all adjoining plats of the same master name. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-4-11: PLANTING STRIPS:
Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to incompatible features
such as interstates, railroads, commercial or industrial uses to screen the
view from residential properties. Such screening shall be a minimum of twenty
feet (20') wide and shall not be a part of the normal street right of way or
utility easement. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
11-4-12: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the comprehensive development plan is
located in whole or part within a proposed subdivision, sufficient area for
such public use shall be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered for
public purchase.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the subdivision.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
11-5-2: Required Public Improvements
11-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
11-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross sections, specifications and other supporting
data for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
public agencies' standards or specifications. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303,
Idaho Code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the mayor and city
council 1 .
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
collector and arterial streets. Rolled curbs and gutters shall be required on
minor streets. All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the mayor and city council. The curbs of street
intersections shall be rounded with curves having a minimum radius of ten feet
(10').
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1325.gif]
 
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway shall be provided within all
subdivisions, as part of the public right of way or separate easement, as may
be specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the mayor and city
council. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
   E.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities including
electric, water, sewer, and irrigation service are required in all new
subdivisions. Installation of tracer wire in all water, sewer and irrigation
lines is required. (Ord. 1028, 1-9-1995)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f906dec7bf3eaf5a3d8097e51e5458e580e68d33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1327.gif]
 
   F.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
public works department, highway district or state highway department.
   G.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the mayor and city council. Construction shall follow the
specifications and procedures established by the mayor and city council.
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems:
      1.   All public water supply or sewer systems (serving 2 or more separate
premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with any adopted
local plans and specifications.
      2.   All new public water supply or sewer systems shall be an extension
of an existing public system whenever possible. In the event that the proposed
public water supply or sewer system is not an extension of an existing public
system, there shall be a showing by the subdivider that the extension is not
feasible and not to the best interest of the public.
      3.   The city requires that all water and sewer plans be submitted for
review and comment by the city officials, one of which must be the supervisor
of the water and sewer departments.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
surveyed and required to be in accordance with the Idaho fire bureau insurance
ratings. Recommendations as to the consistency or inconsistency with fire and
water restrictions of the city must be made by the fire chief or the supervisor
of the water and sewer departments.
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards. A fee covering actual costs as determined by the city per street
sign shall be paid by the subdivider.
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required where
the average width of lots is less than one hundred feet (100'). Where the
average width of lots is greater than one hundred feet (100'), sidewalks are
required on one side of the street.
   L.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   M.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the city. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
11-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before filing of the final plat, the city may
permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or
a combination of the following arrangements for those requirements which are
over and beyond the requirements of any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public
improvements.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to the one hundred ten
percent (110%), plus the inflationary factor to be determined at the time of
application, of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvements as estimated by the city superintendent and
approved by the city council.
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the city council for the specific public
improvement.
      4.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with the surety
company authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the mayor and
city council.
   C.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all subdivision plats shall be conditioned on the
accomplishment of the following: The construction of improvements required by
this title shall have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the
mayor and city council.
   D.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the city shall be made to provide for
checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted
plans.
   E.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete The Construction Of A Public
Improvement: In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the mayor and city council to proceed to have such work
completed. In order to accomplish this, the mayor and city council shall take
such steps as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety
company and as included in a written agreement between the mayor/city council
and the subdivider. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Mobile Home Subdivision
11-6-3: Cemetery Subdivision
11-6-4: Subdivision Within A Floodplain
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan
submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required by chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
(Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-6-2: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:
   A.   General: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in the zoning ordinance and business regulations of the city 1 .
   B.   Special Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living planting areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers.
      2.   Creation of a homeowners' association to assure that all common
areas are adequately maintained. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 10 and 3, respectively, of this code.
11-6-3: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-6-4: SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN 1 :
   A.   Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
floodplain, the developer shall provide the commission with a development plan
of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain at
least the following:
      1.   Location of all planned improvements.
      2.   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers.
      3.   The location of the present water channel.
      4.   Any planned rerouting of waterways.
      5.   All major drainageways.
      6.   Areas of frequent flooding.
      7.   Means of floodproofing buildings.
      8.   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
   B.   Justification For Development:
      1.   Upon the determination that buildings are planned within the
floodplain or that alterations of any kind are anticipated within the
floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the developer shall
demonstrate conclusively to the commission that such development will not
present a hazard to life, limb or property, will not have adverse effects on
the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel, or the
natural environment.
      2.   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages. If only
part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, the mayor and city
council shall limit development to that part and shall require that development
proceed consistent with that determination. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See also the provisions set out in section
  4-4-12-4 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Application Procedure
11-7-2: Action
11-7-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement shall complete and file an application with the
administrator. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street
which is shown on the comprehensive development plan or the dedication of
streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision.
   B.   Administrator Action: Upon receipt of the completed application, the
administrator shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The
administrator shall place the application on the agenda for consideration at
the next regular meeting of the commission which is held not less than fifteen
(15) days after said date of acceptance. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
11-7-2: ACTION:
   A.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request and
all agency responses and make a recommendation to the mayor and city council
for either approval, conditional approval or denial.
   B.   Mayor/City Council Action:
      1.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the mayor/
city council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public
notice as is required by law. The mayor/city council may approve, deny or
modify the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the
mayor/city council shall provide adequate property owners with a quitclaim deed
for the vacated rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
mayor/city council may approve, deny or modify the application. When a
dedication is approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed
or a bond furnished assuring the construction, prior to acceptance of the
dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner
shall furnish to the mayor/city council a deed describing and conveying such
lands to be recorded with the county recorder. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Findings
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The commission may recommend to the mayor/city council, as a result of unique
circumstances such as topographic-physical limitations, a variance from the
provisions of this title on a finding that undue hardship results from the
strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of this title or
that application of such provision or requirement is impracticable. (Ord. 846,
9-29-1975)
11-8-2: FINDINGS:
No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the mayor/city council unless
there is a finding upon recommendation by the commission as a result of a
public hearing that all of the following exist:
   A.   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved.
   B.   The strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result
in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography,
other physical conditions or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted
or that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this title.
   C.   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated.
   D.   Such variance will not involve the provisions of the Idaho Code.
   E.   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest and
purpose of this title and the comprehensive development plan. (Ord. 846, 9-29-
1975)
CHAPTER 9
AMENDED PLATS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Amended Plats
11-9-1: AMENDED PLATS:
Amended plats must be filed as per the original. In the event that a plat of a
subdivision has been recorded and major changes have been made which change the
subdivision materially, the subdivision upon which these changes have been made
must be vacated and an amended plat filed in accordance with the regulations
set forth in this chapter. Any change in street location will require an
amended plat for that portion of the plat that is affected. (Ord. 846, 9-29-
1975)
CHAPTER 10
DETECTION OF VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-10-1: Detection Of Violations
11-10-2: Enforcement
11-10-3: Penalties
11-10-1: DETECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
The building and zoning enforcement officer shall semiannually research the
county assessor's record and perform the necessary investigation to detect any
violations of this title. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
11-10-2: ENFORCEMENT:
No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted
to the public land records of the county or recorded by the county recorder
until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the mayor/city
council. No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall
proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of the
public improvements required by this title until the final plat has received
the approval by the mayor/city council. The city attorney shall, in addition to
taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin
any violation of this title. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
11-10-3: PENALTIES:
Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner, subdivider,
builder, public official or other person who commits, participates in, assists
in or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense.
Penalties for violations shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 846, 9-29-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
CHAPTER 11
AMENDMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Amendment Procedures
11-11-1: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The mayor and city council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal
the regulations and provisions of this title in the manner prescribed by the
Idaho Code. A proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by the
mayor/city council, commission or by petition. All proposals not originating
with the commission shall be referred to the commission for a report thereon
before any action is taken on the proposal by the mayor and city council. (Ord.
846, 9-29-1975)
