CITY CODE
of
WENDELL, IDAHO
1977
Code current through:
Ord. 561-2025, passed 1-2-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Wendell, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 561-2025, passed January 2, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NUMBER 297
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF WENDELL, IDAHO
    BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Wendell, Idaho,
an Idaho municipal corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Wendell, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., under
the direction of the governing body of the city, containing all ordinances of a
general nature in effect at the time of such codification, shall be accepted in
all courts without question as the official code and law of the city as enacted
by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding to or deleting
provisions of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and
is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such new
provision shall become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the
insertion of the proper replacement pages in the copies of the code, three (3)
copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified
as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said
office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be punished as
provided in section 1-4-1 of the city code of Wendell, Idaho.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the mayor and city
council.
   PASSED BY THE COUNCIL and approved by the mayor of the city of Wendell,
Idaho this 26th day of January, 1978.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf400a482ca24f69b36c53d7f23da4dae9b720e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.gif]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
WENDELL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Wendell. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WENDELL MUNICIPAL CODE, and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section 1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the city
attorney, acting for the city council. Any reference to the number of any
section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general
penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this code by title in any legal documents. (1977 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section 1-2-1 of this title. (1977 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (1977 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city
council. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1977 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities, shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section 1-2-
1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1977 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1977 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   (B)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code
by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains any express
provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context
may be repugnant thereto.
   (C)   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection", or words of like import, for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city ordinances is not meant to amend passage
and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1977 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Wendell, county of Gooding, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Wendell".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Wendell".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1977 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code or ordinance of the
city, the penalty for which is not made an indictable misdemeanor by the laws
of the state of Idaho, shall be guilty of an offense, and shall, upon
conviction thereof or upon pleading guilty thereto, be punished by fine in an
amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one offense, or
shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, recoverable with costs. (Ord.
320, 12-23-1980)
   (B)   The penalties set forth in this section shall supersede all penalties
for the violation of ordinances of the city heretofore enacted by the city
where applicable, and shall likewise govern and apply to all ordinances of the
city where no penalty is prescribed, and all future ordinances, unless a
different penalty be specifically prescribed. (Ord. 192, 11-10-1961)
1-4-2: APPLICATION:
   (A)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   (B)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply. (1977 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Salaries
1-5-3: Fees Set By Resolution
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
   (A)   Day And Time: Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on
the first and third Thursdays of each month, at the City Hall, at the hour of
six-thirty o’clock (6:30) P.M.
   (B)   Attendance:
      1.   The City Council hereby acknowledges that it is the duty of all
elected officials to attend all regular and special City Council meetings of
the City.
      2.   If an elected official is unable to attend a regular meeting, that
official shall notify the City Clerk, in writing or by email, acknowledged by
the City Clerk, at least one (1) week prior to the meeting date that he or she
will not be in attendance at the meeting. Failure to notify the City Clerk as
herein provided will result in a forfeiture of half of that elected official's
monthly salary for each meeting missed.
      3.   In no case shall an elected official be excused from more than four
(4) regular and/or special meetings in a calendar year. Any additional absences
will result in a forfeiture of one-half (½) of the elected official's monthly
salary.
      4.   In the event of an emergency that prohibits an elected official from
attending a meeting and/or providing the requisite notice, the elected official
is required to provide notice to the City Clerk as soon as reasonably possible.
Personal, medical, military service, work-related travel or weather-related are
hereby defined as emergency absences. Emergency absences do not count against
an elected official's four (4) permitted absences in a calendar year. (Ord.
436, 2-24-2004; amd. Ord. 531-2017, 6-15-2017, eff. 1-1-2018; Ord. 546-2-16-
2023)
1-5-2: SALARIES:
Commencing January 1, 2024, the salaries of the Mayor and members of the City
Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Mayor: The Mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of one
thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00);
   (B)   City Council: Each member of the City Council shall receive a monthly
salary in the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 452, 9-1-2005; amd.
Ord. 549-2023, 5-18-2023)
1-5-3: FEES SET BY RESOLUTION:
   (A)   All fees charged by the City shall be adopted by resolution rather
than by ordinance.
   (B)   A fee schedule shall be maintained at the Office of the City Clerk and
shall be available for inspection by the public, or for copying for a fee to be
determined by resolution as set by the City Council.
   (C)   In the event a fee is not provided by resolution, but is provided by
ordinance, the ordinance fee will still be applicable. In the event a fee is
set by both ordinance and resolution, the latest adopted fee shall apply. (Ord.
375, 5-11-1995)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment Of Officers; Terms
1-6-2: Salaries
1-6-3: Oath, Bond Of Officers
1-6-4: City Clerk
1-6-5: City Treasurer
1-6-6: Chief Of Police, Street Commissioner
1-6-7: City Engineer
1-6-8: Superintendent Of Waterworks
1-6-9: Standards And Training Of Police Officers
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS; TERMS:
The mayor shall, with the consent of the city council, appoint a city clerk,
city treasurer and city attorney, and such other officers, by resolution, as
may be deemed necessary for the efficient operation of the city, who shall hold
office until removed by the mayor for any cause by him deemed sufficient; but
such removal shall be by and with the affirmative vote of one-half (1/2) plus
one of the members of the full city council. In the alternative, these
appointed positions may be removed by a unanimous vote by all members of the
full city council on their own initiative. (Ord. 447, 4-7-2005)
1-6-2: SALARIES:
The salaries of all employees and all appointive officers of the city shall be
in such amounts as may be set by resolution of the city council from time to
time. (Ord. 204, 8-13-1965)
1-6-3: OATH, BOND OF OFFICERS:
Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, each such
appointed city officer shall take and subscribe an oath to faithfully and
impartially perform the duties of his office; and shall execute a bond
conditioned on the faithful performance of his official duties, in such sum and
with securities to be approved by the city council. Said oath and bond of
officers shall be filed with the city clerk, with the exception of the oath and
bond of the city clerk, which shall be filed with the mayor. (Ord. 5, 12-3-
1909)
1-6-4: CITY CLERK:
The city clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances of the city
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the city council. The
city clerk shall perform such other duties as are prescribed by the statutes of
the state or city ordinances. (Ord. 5, 12-3-1909)
1-6-5: CITY TREASURER:
The city treasurer shall be custodian of all money belonging to the city and
shall perform the duties prescribed by the statutes of the state or city
ordinances. (Ord. 5, 12-3-1909)
1-6-6: CHIEF OF POLICE, STREET COMMISSIONER:
   (A)   The offices of chief of police and street commissioner may be
combined. The duties of a street commissioner shall be as prescribed by the
city council.
   (B)   The chief of police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his department as may be required by statute or by
the mayor. He shall be responsible for the performance of the police department
and of its functions and all persons who are members of the police department
shall serve subject to his orders.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the chief of police to see to the enforcement
of all provisions of this code and of all applicable statutes, and to preserve
order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators thereof. He shall
have authority to call upon any citizen or bystander to assist in the execution
of his duty. He shall serve all processes issued to him and enforce all orders
and judgments of the court. (1977 Code)
1-6-7: CITY ENGINEER:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer to set the grade for the laying of
all sidewalks, crossings and crosswalks, and to see that such are on the grade
established. The city engineer shall also do and perform all such other
services as are prescribed by statute of the state or city ordinance, or
required by the city council. (Ord. 5, 12-3-1909)
1-6-8: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS:
There is hereby created in and for the city the office of superintendent of
waterworks. The superintendent shall, with the approval of the city council,
appoint such clerks and assistants and employ such labor as shall be necessary
for the operation of the waterworks system 1 . The superintendent shall have
charge of the maintenance and operation of said system, and all machinery,
property and appurtenances necessarily used in and about its operation and
maintenance; he shall direct the construction of all extensions to the system,
all connections and service pipes; he shall have full charge of and regulate
the water supply to all customers and to the fire hydrants; he shall read the
meters, render and collect all bills for service from the system; he shall
render a full and complete account of all the transactions of the waterworks
department once each month, or more often if required by the city council, such
report to be upon blanks to be provided by the city council. The superintendent
shall turn over to the city treasurer at least once a day all revenues of every
kind and nature derived from said waterworks system, and shall perform such
other duties in relation to the operation and maintenance of said system as the
city council may from time to time prescribe. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914; amd. 1977
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
1-6-9: STANDARDS AND TRAINING OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   (A)   The city hereby declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for
police training from the law enforcement planning commission under the
provisions of title 19, chapter 51 and particularly section 19-5118 of the
Idaho Code.
   (B)   Pursuant to section 19-5117, Idaho Code, the city, while receiving aid
from the law enforcement planning commission pursuant to said chapter 51, will
adhere to the standards for employment and training established by the Idaho
peace officers standards and training advisory council. (Ord. 225, 5-14-1970)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election Precinct Established
1-7-2: Poll Hours
1-7-3: Election Procedures
1-7-1: ELECTION PRECINCT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established one election precinct for the city, which precinct
shall encompass and comprise all of the area of the city within the limits
thereof as now defined or as hereafter established, and which said precinct
shall be known as the precinct of Wendell. (Ord. 218, 9-11-1969)
1-7-2: POLL HOURS:
The polls shall be open on election day from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. in the city hall of Wendell, Idaho. (Ord. 471, 5-3-2007)
1-7-3: ELECTION PROCEDURES:
Election procedures are assigned to the county in accordance with state
statute. (Per correspondence dated 2-16-2012)
CHAPTER 8
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Corporate Seal
1-8-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form, with inner and outer
circles; it shall bear upon the space between the inner and outer circles the
words, "City of Wendell, Gooding County, Idaho", and upon the space within the
inner circle the words, "Incorporated October 12th, 1909", and in the center of
said space the word "SEAL". The seal described herein is hereby adopted as the
corporate seal of the city. (Ord. 2, 11-26-1909)
CHAPTER 9
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Official Newspaper Designated
1-9-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER DESIGNATED:
The Twin Falls Times News is hereby appointed, designated and constituted the
official newspaper of the city of Wendell, Idaho. (Ord. 331, 12-8-1983; amd.
per correspondence dated 2-16-2012)
CHAPTER 10
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-10-1: Creation Of Right
1-10-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-10-3: Time For Filing Petitions
1-10-4: Time For Election
1-10-5: Requirements For Signature, Verification Of Valid Petitions, Printing
Of Petition And Time Limits
1-10-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 307, 3-22-1979)
1-10-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of voters registered to vote at the last general election in the city. (Ord.
307, 3-22-1979)
1-10-3: TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS:
Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall be
filed with the city clerk not less than sixty (60) days following the final
adoption of the ordinance to be subject to referendum. (Ord. 307, 3-22-1979)
1-10-4: TIME FOR ELECTION:
A special election for initiative or referendum shall be provided not more than
ninety (90) days following the certification of the petition; provided, that in
the event a municipal election will occur within ninety (90) days, the
initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the time of the municipal
election. (Ord. 307, 3-22-1979)
1-10-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGNATURE, VERIFICATION OF VALID PETITIONS, PRINTING
OF PETITION AND TIME LIMITS:
Referendum and initiative petitions shall conform with the requirements for
signature, verification of valid petitions, printing of petitions and time
limits, except as expressly modified to meet the purposes of initiative and
referendum to be as nearly as practicable as provided in sections 34-1701
through 34-1705 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 307, 3-22-1979)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Membership; Appointment
2-1-3: Term Of Office
2-1-4: Vacancies
2-1-5: Removal
2-1-6: Political Affiliation; Compensation
2-1-7: Officers
2-1-8: Meetings; Quorum
2-1-9: Rules; Records; Open Meetings
2-1-10: Duties Generally
2-1-11: Cooperation
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a commission to be known as the city
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven (7) members to be
appointed by the mayor with the consent and approval of the city council. (Ord.
458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office for the first appointive members appointed to such
commission shall be two (2), four (4) and six (6) years, to be determined by
lot. Thereafter, the term of office for such appointed officer shall be six (6)
years. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring otherwise than throughout the expiration of terms, shall be
filled by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-5: REMOVAL:
Members may be removed by a majority vote of the body confirming the original
appointment. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-6: POLITICAL AFFILIATION; COMPENSATION:
Members shall be selected without respect to political affiliation. Members may
receive such mileage and per diem compensation not to exceed the current rate
established by the internal revenue service and the U.S. general services
administration per resolution 73 of the city. This mileage shall apply to the
attending of classes given specifically for planning and zoning information and
that the mayor has given his approval for the commission members to attend.
(Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-7: OFFICERS:
The commission shall select its own chairperson, and may create and fill such
other offices as it may determine necessary. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-8: MEETINGS; QUORUM:
The commission shall hold one regular meeting each month for not less than nine
(9) months of each year. A majority of the appointive members of the commission
shall be necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-9: RULES; RECORDS; OPEN MEETINGS:
Written rules consistent with the laws of the state shall be adopted for the
transaction of business and a written record of business, resolution, findings
and determinations shall be kept. All meetings and records shall be open to the
public. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-10: DUTIES GENERALLY:
It shall be the duty of the commission to recommend and make suggestions to the
city council for the adoption of the long range comprehensive plan for the
physical development of the city; for the formation of zoning districts; to
make suggestions concerning the laying out, widening, extending and locating of
streets, roads and highways for the relief of traffic; to make suggestions
concerning the density of population and development of land within the
jurisdiction of the city; to make suggestions concerning the future growth,
development and beautification of the city in respect to its public buildings,
streets, parks, grounds and lands consistent with the future growth and
development of the city in order to promote the public health, morals, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants thereof; and to do all such other things and
acts as may be provided by title 50, chapter 11, of the Idaho Code, and
amendments and additions thereto. (Ord. 458, 4-20-2006)
2-1-11: COOPERATION:
The commission may cooperate with other and like commissions for the purposes
as herein set forth and set forth in the statutes of the state. (Ord. 458, 4-
20-2006)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Members
2-2-2: Terms Of Office
2-2-3: Organization
2-2-4: Vacancies
2-2-5: Duties
2-2-6: Gifts, Donations
2-2-7: Fund, Accounts
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS:
There is hereby established and created a board to be known as the board of
park commissioners. The board shall consist of seven (7) members, who shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council, from residents of
the county of Gooding and one member of the city council who shall be an ex
officio member of the board. (Ord. 235, 7-23-1971)
2-2-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of office of the respective members of the board of park
commissioners shall be as follows:
   (A)   The member appointed from the city council shall serve for a period of
two (2) years, or until the end of his period as a council member, whichever
occurs first.
   (B)   The remaining seven (7) members shall be appointed for a term of four
(4) years, except that those who are appointed as the initial board members
shall serve for a period as follows: Three (3) members shall be appointed for a
term of two (2) years; two (2) members for a term of three (3) years; and two
(2) members for a term of four (4) years. Thereafter, each appointment shall be
for a term of four (4) years. (Ord. 235, 7-23-1971)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
The board of park commissioners shall meet on or before September 1 of each
year and appoint one of its members as chairperson, and one of its members as
vice chairperson, who may assume the duties of the chairperson in the event of
his absence, and shall also choose from its members a person who shall serve as
secretary of the board. These persons shall constitute the officers of the
board and shall retain their offices for a term of one year, or until their
successors have been selected. (Ord. 235, 7-23-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
2-2-4: VACANCIES:
All vacancies in the board of park commissioners, by reason of removal,
resignation or death, shall be filled by the mayor with the approval and
consent of the city council for the unexpired term of the person whose term was
so vacated. (Ord. 235, 7-23-1971)
2-2-5: DUTIES:
The board of park commissioners shall have the following duties:
   (A)   The planning and conduct of the recreation program of the city, the
recommending of personnel to conduct such program and the supervision of such
program.
   (B)   The operation, maintenance, control and supervision of parks and
swimming pools, and the power to establish rules and regulations, fixing rates
and charges and all other things as may be necessary to the maintenance and
operation of the parks and facilities located therein. (Ord. 235, 7-23-1971)
   (C)   The board shall submit to the mayor and city council, on or before the
first regular monthly meeting of September of each year, a recommended program
and a budget for the year, together with the board's recommendation as to the
personnel to be employed to operate, manage or supervise the program.
   (D)   The board, on or before the regular monthly meeting of September of
each year, shall submit to the mayor and city council a full and complete
report of recreation activities carried on by or under direction of the board.
(Ord. 235, 7-23-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
2-2-6: GIFTS, DONATIONS:
   (A)   Authority To Accept: The board of park commissioners shall have
authority on behalf of and in the name of the city, to accept gifts or
donations of property, both real and personal, grants of money from the federal
government, state of Idaho or monies from whatever source, and services useful
to the planning, construction and maintenance of the park system.
   (B)   Separate Fund: Monies received from grants, gifts or donations given
for purchase of lands and equipment for development of parks shall be kept in a
fund, separate from other city funds, and may be expended by the park board
upon prior approval of the city council. (Ord. 235, 7-23-1971)
2-2-7: FUND, ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk and city treasurer shall keep an account, to be designated as
the "park account", which account shall keep and show a proper account and
record of all property and money received, held or disbursed in the said fund;
provided, however, that the mayor and city council may from time to time
appoint a deputy clerk for the limited purpose of maintaining records and
accounts pertaining to the "park account", but that such deputy clerk shall not
be authorized to issue or execute warrants, or in any manner handle or control
any of the monies, property or funds of said account. (Ord. 244, 6-8-1972)
CHAPTER 3
GAS FITTERS EXAMINING BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Established, Members
2-3-2: Qualifications Of Members
2-3-3: Duties And Powers
2-3-4: Application For Examination, Fee
2-3-5: Time Of Examination
2-3-6: Reexamination
2-3-7: Certificate Of Competency
2-3-8: Revocation Of Certificate
2-3-9: Compensation Of Board Members
2-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED, MEMBERS:
A board to be known as the gas fitters examining board shall be appointed by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. It shall consist of
three (3) members selected from nominees recommended by an organized and
generally recognized association of responsible firms or individuals engaged in
the gas fitting or related pipe fitting industry, and who shall qualify as
hereinafter prescribed. The members of the first board shall be appointed
within sixty (60) days after the effective date hereof and shall serve for the
following terms: one member for one year; one member for two (2) years; and one
member for three (3) years. Thereafter, upon the expiration of each term, the
board members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. All board
members shall be subject to removal by the mayor, with the advice and consent
of the city council, for malfeasance in office, neglect of duty or incapacity
to serve. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957; amd. 1977 Code)
2-3-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
All members of the gas fitters examining board shall be United States citizens,
residents of the state of Idaho for not less than one year, engaged in a
responsible capacity in the gas fitting business prior to appointment and
during the term of office and qualified by integrity, knowledge and experience
to judge the competency of applicants for gas fitters certificates. Not less
than one member of the board shall have had five (5) years' or more experience
as a gas fitting contractor, gas fitting journeyman or as an engineer
experienced in the design, construction and operation of gas systems. (Ord.
172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The gas fitters examining board shall conduct examinations for the purpose of
determining the competency of applicants who are required to have a license
under this chapter and chapter 7, title 3 of this code, and to issue
certificates of competency to such persons as may be entitled thereto. The
board shall elect a chairperson from its members, who shall be the executive
officer and preside at all meetings, and a secretary, who shall keep such
records as are proper for efficient discharge of the board's duties, which
records pertaining to an applicant's qualifications shall be kept intact and
available in the event of dispute for a period of not less than one year
following the date of issuance of the certificate of competency. The board
shall determine the character and extent of the examination based on the
requirements of this code, and shall grade and pass or reject the applicant on
the basis of equaling or exceeding, or failing to equal, a minimum percentage
grade of seventy percent (70%). The board shall issue certificates of
competency to successful applicants and shall have the power to revoke such
certificates under conditions hereinafter prescribed. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-4: APPLICATION FOR EXAMINATION, FEE:
   (A)   Form Of Application: Any person required by this chapter or chapter 7,
title 3 of this code to be licensed shall make application on the form provided
to the city clerk, acting for the gas fitters examining board, for the
examination for a certificate of competency and pay the examination fee. (Ord.
172, 1-9-1957)
   (B)   Fee Set By Resolution: The applicant shall pay to the city clerk at
the time of making application an examination fee as set by resolution pursuant
to section
1-5-3 of this code. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
   (C)   Registration For Apprentice Gas Fitters: Apprentice gas fitters shall
not be required to be examined but shall be registered with the board and shall
maintain their certificate cards showing classification. The board shall notify
the city clerk of this registration.
   (D)   Placement In General Fund: All monies derived from the payment of
examination fees shall be placed in the general fund. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-5: TIME OF EXAMINATION:
The gas fitters examining board shall so schedule its meetings to examine a
single applicant, or as many applicants at one time as circumstances dictate,
but in no case shall an applicant be required to delay his examination more
than sixty (60) days from the date the application is accepted. Each applicant
shall be notified by the board of the time and place for examination not less
than forty eight (48) hours prior to examination time. Notification by
registered letter directed to the address given on the application shall be
considered notification. Failure of the applicant to appear for examination
does not entitle him to a refund of the examination fee. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-6: REEXAMINATION:
Any person who, for sufficient cause in the judgment of the gas fitters
examining board, was unable to appear for examination at the stated time, may
apply and be given an examination after thirty (30) days for the original fee
payment. Any person who fails to pass the examination may apply for
reexamination after a period of thirty (30) days upon payment of the
examination fee. Should any person fail to pass the examination the second
time, the board may refuse the application until the expiration of six (6)
months. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-7: CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY:
Upon successful completion of an examination, the gas fitters examining board
shall issue to the applicant a certificate of competency in the form of a card,
providing thereon the applicant's name, classification, year in which current,
space for the applicant's signature and license number, and the signature of
the chairperson of the board of examiners. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-8: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
A certificate of competency may be revoked by the gas fitters examining board
if it has good and sufficient evidence that such certificate was obtained by
fraud, or if the holder demonstrates lack of knowledge or incompetency in
matters relevant to such certificate. In such cases the board may order
reexamination, or may refuse application for reexamination as conditions may
dictate. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
2-3-9: COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS:
The members of the gas fitters examining board shall each receive from the city
as the only compensation for their services the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for
each journeyman fitter examined. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
CHAPTER 4
TREE BOARD 1
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Established
2-4-2: Duties And Authority
2-4-3: Meetings
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 7 of this code.
2-4-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a city tree board, which shall consist
of five (5) members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be appointed
by the mayor with the approval of the city council. Members of the board shall
serve without compensation. In the event that a vacancy shall occur, this
position will be filled by an appointment by the mayor with the approval of the
city council. (Ord. 434, 11-18-2003)
2-4-2: DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:
   (A)   Duties: Duties of the tree board shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Provide advice to the mayor and city council as to appropriate
practices for the preservation and management of trees.
      2.   Have an inventory taken of all existing trees on all city
properties.
      3.   Provide information to the public on the care and planting of trees.
      4.   Assist in Arbor Day celebrations and activities.
      5.   Identify and implement suitable landscaping projects for city
property.
      6.   Plan and review, with the city council, a forest program budget.
   (B)   Authority: The mayor and city council have ultimate authority over all
trees on or within the city properties and the tree board's authority is only
to give recommendations to the mayor and city council. (Ord. 434, 11-18-2003)
2-4-3: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the board shall be held when duly called by the chairperson by
written or oral notice. A majority of the members of the board shall be
necessary to form a quorum at any meeting. All meetings shall be open to the
public. A written record of meetings shall be kept, which record shall be made
public. Any meeting of the board may also be called by the mayor. (Ord. 434,
11-18-2003)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSING
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applicability
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Exemptions
3-1-4: Business License Application
3-1-5: Additional Requirements For Mobile Food Businesses
3-1-6: Additional Requirements For Ice Cream Truck Businesses
3-1-7: Business License Denial, Suspension, Revocation; Hearing; Appeal;
Penalties
3-1-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all businesses. A
"business" is defined as any wholesale and retail businesses and all
activities, occupational callings, trades, pursuits or professions that conduct
business from a location within the City of Wendell with the object of gain,
profit, benefit or advantage. Each business location shall be deemed a separate
business unless it is a specific annex to the main location of the business.
This chapter is not intended to repeal any license or franchise provisions of
any other ordinance of the City of Wendell, nor is the license issued pursuant
to this chapter to be considered a waiver of any other requirements of
compliance with any federal, state or local laws. (Ord. 559-2024, 10-17-2024)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in any business within the City of Wendell for which
licensing is required by this chapter, without having submitted a business
license application (as hereinafter defined) to the City Clerk and receiving a
license from the City of Wendell to operate the business ("business license")
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The business license shall
be in addition to any other requirements of this chapter or the other
provisions of this chapter. A business license shall be valid for the remainder
of the calendar year in which it is granted so long as the ownership,
management, nature of the business or location of business remains unchanged or
is not otherwise suspended or revoked as provided for herein. (Ord. 559-2024,
10-17-2024)
3-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The fee provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Persons participating in charitable activities within the meaning of
Section 501(C)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code. Possession of a
certificate of such status from the Internal Revenue Service shall be required
to qualify for this exemption.
      2.   Any agency of the United States Government and any political sub-
division of the State of Idaho.
      3.   Persons who occupy space at a flea market, including the operator of
the flea market.
      4.   Persons who make occasional sales of their own household property
not more than twice each calendar year.
      5.   Domestic servants, newspaper carriers or casual labor not including
temporary employees of a regularly conducted business.
      6.   Landlords of any residential property having one (1) or two (2)
family units. (Ord. 559-2024, 10-17-2024)
3-1-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   To obtain a business license, the applicant ("applicant") must submit
an application ("business license application") to the City Clerk.
   B.   Business license applications can be obtained from the City Clerk's
Office or found on the City of Wendell website.
   C.   Business license application shall include such information as may be
required by the City Council including, but not limited to:
      1.   Name (Owner and Manager).
      2.   Applicant Address (Owner and Manager).
      3.   Applicant phone number (Owner and Manager).
      4.   Physical and mailing address and phone number of the business.
      5.   Nature of the business being conducted.
   D.   Every business license application shall be accompanied by a fee as may
be established by the City Council from time to time ("business license fee").
   E.   Every business license application shall be signed by the owner of the
business or his agent and submitted to the City Clerk's Office within ten (10)
business days of the opening of the business.
   F.   Any changes in the business as directed in Section
3-1-4(C) shall be submitted to the City Clerk's Office within ten (10) business
days of the changes.
   G.   Irrespective of the date of the business license application, the
initial business license shall be valid from the date of the approval of the
business license until the end of the calendar year.
   H.   The business license fee shall be set by resolution of the City Council
and must be paid at the time the business license application is submitted to
the City Clerk's Office and prior to the issuance of a business license. City
services, where applicable, will not be turned on until the business license is
approved.
   I.   Every business required under this chapter to obtain a business license
shall display such license in a prominent location upon the business premises.
No business shall loan, sell, give, or assign to any other person or allow any
other person to use or display, destroy, damage or remove a business license,
or to have in his possession any business license which was not issued to that
business.
   J.   Whenever the ownership of a business, nature of the business or
location of any business within the City of Wendell is changed, a new business
license application reflecting the change shall be presented to the Clerk's
Office within ten (10) business days of said change. The issuance of the new
business license shall be valid until the end of the calendar year in which it
was issued.
   K.   Whenever the management of the Business changes, the Clerk's Office
shall be notified in writing of the new manager's name, address and phone
number within ten (10 ) business days of said change.
   L.   The holder of a Business License ("business licensee") shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   M.   A business license may be denied, suspended, or revoked for failure of
the business licensee to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 559-
2024, 10-17-2024)
3-1-5: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   In addition to the requirements for a business license, a mobile food
businesses which is defined as a business that serves food or beverages from a
self-contained unit or in a trailer with wheels and conducts all or part of its
operations on premises other than its own shall provide annually to the City of
Wendell at the beginning of each year:
      1.   Written permission from the property owner to allow the operation of
a mobile food business.
      2.   Confirmation of permission from the property owner allowing
employees and customers access to a commercially plumbed public restroom on
site.
      3.   Provide site plan depicting the location of the mobile food business
on the property in compliance with the restrictions listed herein. A site plan
must be provided for each location to be utilized by the mobile food business.
      4.   Temporary connections to potable water are prohibited. Water must be
supplied from an internal tank attached to the mobile food business.
      5.   Electricity shall be from a generator or an electrical outlet that
is in compliance with the electrical code enforced by the State of Idaho,
Electrical Bureau, Division of Public Safety.
      6.   A copy of the electrical permit issued by the State of Idaho must be
presented to the City of Wendell prior to a business license for a mobile food
business being issued.
      7.   Applicant must provide a copy of the plan for the removal of gras
water from the Mobile Food Business location. Connection to the City of Wendell
sewer system is prohibited. The plan for removal of the gray water from the
location must be approved by the City of Wendell Public Works Administrator.
      8.   A fire inspection must be completed by the City of Wendell Fire
Department prior to a Business License for a mobile food business being issued.
Fire inspections must be completed annually for licensing. The mobile food
business must meet and maintain all current Fire Code requirements.
      9.   Applicant must provide a copy of the health permit issued by the
South-Central Health District annually.
      10.   Applicant must provide a State of Idaho Tax Identification Number
annually.
      11.   Applicant must provide current proof of public liability insurance
in an amount not to exceed the single-limit coverage of at least five hundred
thousand dollars ($500.000.00) for the mobile food business.
      12.   Mobile food businesses must provide a garbage container capable of
holding all trash and garbage generated by the operation of said business. The
container must be emptied periodically as necessary. The immediate areas
surrounding the mobile food business must be kept free of litter, grease and
other debris at all times.
      13.   A drive through is not permitted in conjunction with any mobile
food business.
      14.   All signage must be securely attached to the mobile food business
unit.
      15.   Only canopies which are part of the mobile food business itself and
supported only by the mobile food business unit will be allowed.
   B.   A Mobile Food Business:
      1.   Shall be located on private property in commercially zoned areas
where an existing, permanent business operates in a building with a certificate
of occupancy.
      2.   Are not allowed on any City of Wendell properly or right-of-way
unless invited by an event sponsor through the special event application
process.
      3.   Shall not be located in the following areas:
         (a)   Within six (6) feet from the edge of any public sidewalk,
driveway, utility box, vaults, handicap ramps, or emergency call boxes.
         (b)   Within ten (10) feet of any doorway, building entrance/exit, or
other building structure.
         (c)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
         (d)   In any area that obstructs the movement/visibilily of vehicles
or bicycles using the appropriate public right-of-way, access easements, drive
aisle, or interferes with pedestrian use of the same.
         (e)   Likewise, no associated outdoor seating, or other items related
to the mobile food business shall violate the restrictions above.
      4.   Mobile food businesses shall not use or attach any items to public
amenities (trees, streetlights, street furniture, railing, etc.) for any
reason.
   C.   A mobile food businesses which is readily movable without disassembling
for transport to another location shall provide annual proof of mobility by
physically driving the mobile food business to city hall for a physical
inspection bv the City Clerk, or their designee, at a scheduled time designated
by the City Clerk. (Ord. 559-2024, 10-17-2024)
3-1-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
In addition to the requirements for a business license, the owner of an ice
cream truck, which is defined as any motor vehicle used for selling, displaying
or offering to sell any frozen dairy product or frozen water-based food product
including, but not limited to, ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbert. frozen
desserts and as incidental thereto other food items which are prepackaged by
the manufacturer such as gum, candy, juice, chips and soft drinks or similar
products that do not require further processing, shall:
   A.   Conspicuously display its business license which shall be clearly
visible on the windshield of any ice cream truck operated within City of
Wendell limits.
   B.   Provide a current/valid driver's license for each individual operating
the ice cream truck.
   C.   Provide a copy of current proof of liability insurance. Each applicant
for a business license or renewal under this section shall submit with its
application a certificate of insurance executed by an insurance company or
association authorized to transact business in The State of Idaho, that there
is in effect liability insurance in an amount not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) combined single limits for both general
liability and business liability coverage. Such policy or policies shall
include coverage of all motor vehicles used in connection with applicant's
business. The certificate shall contain a statement that the City of Wendell
will be given written notification at least thirty (30) days prior to
cancellation or material change in the coverage. Cancellation shall constitute
grounds for revocation of the business license issued hereunder unless another
insurance policy complying herewith is provided and is in effect at the time of
cancellation/termination.
   D.   Applicant shall provide a copy of the health permit issued by the
South-Central Health District annually.
   E.   An ice cream truck may only operate one half (½) hour after sunrise to
one half (½) hour before sunset.
   F.   An ice cream truck may operate on any public streets within the City of
Wendell limits subject to the following limitations and requirements:
      1.   An ice cream truck shall have a clearly audible backup warning
device that activates whenever the vehicle is shifted into reverse gear.
      2.   An ice cream truck shall have at least two (2) flashing yellow
beacons on the roof of the vehicle, one (1) at the front and one (1) at the
rear. One (1) roof mounted light must be visible from all sides of the vehicle.
These beacons shall be activated whenever merchandise is being sold, offered
for sale, or displayed for sale.
      3.   An ice cream truck shall have a sign or decal on the front and on
the rear of the vehicle, in letters at least six (6) inches in height and
visible for two hundred (200) feet along a level, straight road way,
identifying the vehicle as an ice cream truck and containing the words
"Children Crossing".
      4.   The operator of an ice cream truck shall be prohibited from pulling
a trailer.
      5.   The operator of an ice cream truck may not sell, offer to sell, or
display for sale its merchandise on public streets where the speed limit
exceeds twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
      6.   The operator of an ice cream truck may not sell, offer to sell, or
display for sale its merchandise to any person standing in the roadway.
      7.   The operator of an ice cream truck may not operate in reverse in
order to sell, offer to sell, or display for sale its merchandise.
      8.   The operator of an ice cream truck may not sell, offer to sell, or
display for sale any of its merchandise at any stop sign or within thirty (30)
feet of a roadway intersection.
      9.   The operator of an ice cream truck shall pull as far off the roadway
as possible to sell, offer to sell, or display for sale its merchandise and do
so only from the side of the Ice Cream Truck away from moving traffic and as
near as possible to the curb or side of the street. (Ord. 559-2024, 10-17-2024)
3-1-7: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, NATURE OF BUSINESS OR LOCATION OF
BUSINESS:
   A.   If the City Clerk determines that facts exist for denial, suspension,
or revocation of a business license under this chapter, the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant or business licensee (respondent ) in writing of the
intent to deny, suspend or revoke the business license. including the grounds
therefor, by personal delivery, or by certified mail. The notification shall be
directed to the most current business address on file with the City Clerk.
Within five (5) working days of receipt of such notice, the respondent may
provide to the Mayor and City Council in writing a response that shall include
a statement of reasons why the business license or permit should not be denied,
suspended, or revoked. Within five (5) days of the receipt of respondent's
written response, the Mayor shall notify respondent in writing of the hearing
date on respondent's denial, suspension. or revocation proceeding.
   B.   Within ten (10) working days of the receipt of respondent's written
response, the Mayor and City Council shall conduct a hearing at which
respondent shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf. If a response is not received by
the Major and City Council in the time stated or if after the hearing the City
Council finds that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation, then such denial, suspension, or revocation shall
become final five (5) days after the Mayor sends, by certified mail, written
notice that the business license has been denied, suspended, or revoked. Such
notice shall include a statement advising the applicant or business licensee of
the right to appeal such decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   If the City Council finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension,
or revocation of a business license then within five (5) days after the
hearing, the Mayor shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the
business license and shall so notify the respondent in writing by certified
mail of such action and shall contemporaneously therewith issue the business
license.
   D.   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a business license becomes
final the applicant or business licensee (aggrieved party) whose application
for a business license has been denied or whose business license has been
suspended or revoked shall have the right to appeal such action to a court of
competent jurisdiction as allowed by law. Upon the filing of any court action
to appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the City of Wendell's
enforcement of the denial, suspension or revocation, the City of Wendell shall
immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional business license. The
provisional business license shall allow the aggrieved party to continue
operation of the business licensee's business and will expire upon the court's
entry of a judgment on the aggrieved party's action to appeal challenge
restrain or otherwise enjoin the City of Wendell's enforcement.
   E.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be assessed a fixed penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) excluding court costs and fees. A second and any
subsequent conviction for a violation of the provisions of this chapter within
five (5) years shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a
county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1.000.00), or by both. Each day such violation is committed,
or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
F.   Instead of, or in addition to the penalties or relief provided above the
City of Wendell may take such other available legal action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation of this chapter. A civil action may be
commenced and pursued in the Gooding County Court for the purpose of enforcing
or correcting any violation of this chapter, including but not limited to an
order enjoining or preventing operation of the business in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 559-2024, 10-17-2024)
CHAPTER 2
CARD, AMUSEMENT TABLES
(Rep. by Ord. 453, 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 3
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Required, Term, Fees
3-3-4: Application For License
3-3-5: Premises Requirements
3-3-6: Police Right Of Inspection
3-3-7: Sales Restrictions
3-3-8: Revocation Of License
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for
the protection of the public health, peace and morals, and all of its
provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment of that purpose.
(Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935; amd. 1977 Code)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED, TERM, FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any retailer to sell, trade, barter or dispose of beer
within the city without first having obtained a license therefor from the city
council as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall terminate at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of each year. (Ord. 318, 11-13-1980)
   (B)   Retailer's license fee for the sale only of bottled and canned beer,
none of which is consumed on the premises where sold, shall be as set by
resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code, and where such bottled or canned beer is consumed on the
premises where sold, the license fee shall be as set by resolution pursuant to
section
1-5-3 of this code. If the license is granted between January 1 and July 1, the
applicant must pay the full annual license fee. If the license is granted
between July 1 and December 31, the applicant must pay one-half (1/2) of the
annual license fee.
   (C)   Retailer's license fee for the sale of draught and bottled or canned
beer, or draught beer only, shall be as set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code. If the license is granted between January 1 and July 1, the
applicant must pay the full annual license fee. If the license is granted
between July 1 and December 31, the applicant must pay one-half (1/2) of the
annual license fee. (Ord. 142, 9-29-1947; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every retailer desiring to obtain a license for the sale, barter, trade or
distribution of beer shall make a written application therefor to the city
council, which said application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name and residence of applicant.
   (B)   Legal description of room or building in which said business shall be
conducted.
   (C)   That applicant is a citizen of the United States and has been a bona
fide resident of the state of Idaho for a period of one year prior to the date
of making application. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
   (D)   That applicant is of good moral character and is over the age of
nineteen (19) years. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935; amd. 1977 Code)
   (E)   That applicant has not been convicted of any felony or of the
violation of any law regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale of alcoholic
beverages or intoxicating liquor. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
3-3-5: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
Retailers' licenses shall be granted only for a certain room or building
designated in said license, which said room or building shall be well lighted
and the view thereof not obstructed by any curtain, blind or partition, and the
place of business shall not be changed or moved without the consent of the city
council in regular session. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
3-3-6: POLICE RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
Every person to whom a license shall be granted to sell, barter, trade or
dispose of beer shall at all times conduct a quiet and orderly place of
business which shall be open to the inspection at all times of any police
officer, or officer of the United States; and the persons or either or any of
them shall have the right at any and all times to make an examination of the
licensed premises to ascertain if the licensee of such premises is conforming
to the provisions of this chapter, the laws of the state, or the laws of the
United States applicable thereto, and to check the alcoholic content of any
beer or other beverages being kept so posted during the full period for which
said license is issued, and the license shall not be sold, transferred or
assigned without the consent of the city council. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
3-3-7: SALES RESTRICTIONS:
No beer shall be sold, traded, bartered or disposed of in the city, save and
except within the fire limits of the city, or sold, traded, bartered or
disposed of within three hundred feet (300') of any public school grounds or
church in the city, except with the approval of the governing body of the
municipality after any public school or church located within three hundred
feet (300') of such location is provided written notice and an opportunity to
comment; provided that this limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed
premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area
but subsequent to licensing came therein.
The days and hours for the sale of beer shall be the same as those set by the
commission of Gooding County, state of Idaho. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935; amd. 1977
Code; Ord. 495-A, 12-4-2008; Ord. 539-2021, 7-6-2021)
3-3-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and at all times remain vested in the city council to revoke
or cancel the license of any person licensed hereunder for any violation of
this chapter, and upon complaint filed with the mayor, the mayor shall notify
the offender to appear before the city council and be heard upon said
complaint, and if at the hearing it shall appear to the city council that cause
exists for the cancellation or revocation of said license, then such license
shall be revoked without further process of law. (Ord. 116, 6-14-1935)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required, Fee
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Investigation Of Application
3-4-5: Form Of License, Expiration
3-4-6: Persons Not Qualified For Licensing
3-4-7: Sanitary Requirements
3-4-8: Location Restrictions
3-4-9: Police Right To Examine Premises
3-4-10: Hours Of Sale
3-4-11: Restriction Of Sales By Licensee
3-4-12: Purchase By Unqualified Persons
3-4-13: Revocation And Cancellation Of License
3-4-14: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions contained in section 23-902 of
the Idaho Code are, by this reference, incorporated herein and made section
3-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
The city council, at a regular or special meeting, shall issue licenses to
qualified applicants, as herein provided, and upon the issuance of such
license, the licensee therein named shall be authorized to sell liquor at
retail by the drink, but only in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall pay an annual
licensee fee to the city in an amount as set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code. (Ord. 248, 12-14-1972; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for license shall file with the city clerk an application
verified by affidavit, setting forth the following facts:
   (A)   Description of premises for which license is sought and its location,
and name of owner of said premises.
   (B)   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on in and upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts, incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests.
   (C)   If premises to be licensed is not owned by the applicant, then a
certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises showing that
the owner consents to the sale of liquor by the drink on such premises.
   (D)   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association and the officers and members of the governing
board and ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation.
   (E)   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of any corporation,
the articles of association and bylaws of any association, or the articles of
partnership of any partnership.
   (F)   If during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of subsection (A), (B), (C), (D) or (E)
of this section, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified report of such
change to the city clerk. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this chapter, accompanied by
the necessary license fee, the city council may make such investigation of all
matters pertaining thereto as they shall deem proper. If the city council shall
determine the contents of the application are true, that such applicant is
qualified to receive a license, that his premises is suitable for the carrying
on of the business and requirements of this chapter are met and complied with,
the license shall be issued, otherwise the application shall be denied and the
license fee returned. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-5: FORM OF LICENSE, EXPIRATION:
Every license issued under this chapter shall set forth the name of the person
to whom issued, the location by street and number, or other definite
designation, of the premises. If issued to a partnership, names of the persons
constituting the partnership shall be set forth; if issued to a corporation or
association, the names of the principal officers and the governing board shall
be set forth. Such license shall be signed by the licensee and shall be
nontransferable. Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter is
separate and distinct and no person except the licensee therein named shall
exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder, and all licenses are
applicable only to premises in respect to which issued. All licenses shall
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of the calendar year
for which issued. No person shall be granted more than one license in any one
year. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-6: PERSONS NOT QUALIFIED FOR LICENSING:
The provisions of section 23-910 of the Idaho Code are by this reference
incorporated herein and made section
3-4-6 of this chapter, and this further provision is added: A license shall not
be issued to a person not of good moral character. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-7: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Any licensed premises shall be maintained in sanitary condition according to
the requirements of chapter 16, title 39 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 140, 6-24-
1947)
3-4-8: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood which is
predominantly residential or within three hundred feet (300') of any public
school, church or any other place of worship, measured in a straight line to
the nearest entrance of the licensed premises; provided, that this limitation
shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the time of licensing did
not come within the restricted area but subsequent to licensing became therein.
(Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-9: POLICE RIGHT TO EXAMINE PREMISES:
Any duly authorized police officer of the city shall have the right at any time
to make an examination of the premises of any licensee as to whether the laws
of the state and the ordinances of the city are being complied with. (Ord. 140,
6-24-1947)
3-4-10: HOURS OF SALE:
The days and hours for the sale of liquor shall be the same as those set by the
commission of Gooding County, state of Idaho. (Ord. 495-A, 12-4-2008)
3-4-11: RESTRICTION OF SALES BY LICENSEE:
No licensee or his employed agents, servants or bartenders shall sell, deliver
or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or given away any liquor
to: (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
   (A)   Any person under the age of nineteen (19) years. (Ord. 245, 6-22-1972)
   (B)   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   (C)   A habitual drunkard.
   (D)   An interdicted person. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
3-4-12: PURCHASE BY UNQUALIFIED PERSONS:
Any person under the age of nineteen (19) years, or other person who knowingly
misrepresents his qualifications for the purpose of obtaining liquor from such
licensee, shall be equally guilty with such licensee and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be guilty of an offense. (Ord. 245, 6-22-1972)
3-4-13: REVOCATION AND CANCELLATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and at all times remain vested in the city council to revoke
or cancel the license of any person licensed hereunder for any violation of
this chapter; and upon verified complaint filed with the city council, the city
council shall cause such alleged offender to appear before the city council and
be heard upon said complaint. A copy of said complaint shall be served with
said notice, and the day and hour of the hearing, which shall be at least five
(5) days thence, shall be specified in such notice, and such hearing shall be
had in such place as the city council shall designate. If at said hearing, upon
the taking of evidence on behalf of the city and such alleged offender, it
shall appear to the city council that cause exists for the cancellation or
revocation of such license, the same may be cancelled or revoked without
further process of law, and upon such cancellation or revocation, no refund of
any unexpired portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee. (Ord.
140, 6-24-1947; amd. 1977 Code)
3-4-14: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, the penalty for which is not
by title 23, Idaho Code, made any indictable misdemeanor or felony, shall be
unlawful, and any person so violating such provision shall be guilty of an
offense hereunder and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 140, 6-24-1947)
CHAPTER 5
WINE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Licenses Required; Fee
3-5-3: Application For License; Issuance
3-5-4: Qualifications
3-5-5: License Restrictions
3-5-6: Consumption On Premises
3-5-7: Possession
3-5-8: Misrepresentation Of Age
3-5-9: Revocation Of License
3-5-10: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
DIRECTOR: The director of law enforcement of the state of Idaho.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the director, authorizing a person to
sell wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar, whether or not other
ingredients are added.
WINE BY THE DRINK LICENSE: A license to sell wine by the individual glass or
open bottle at retail, for consumption on the premises only. (Ord. 237, 11-4-
1971; amd. 1977 Code; Ord. 325, 11-2-1981)
3-5-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail or wine by the drink
within the corporate limits of the city after having first procured a license
therefor. (Ord. 325, 11-2-1981)
The license fee imposed and collected shall be as set by resolution pursuant to
section
1-5-3 of this code. Such license year shall be from one minute past twelve
o'clock (12:01) midnight January 1 through December 31; provided, however,
should a license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee
shall not be prorated in accordance with the actual month of issuance. (Ord.
325, 11-2-1981; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the city clerk. Such application
shall be filed by the city clerk and presented to the mayor and city council at
the next meeting of the city council for their approval, rejection or further
consideration.
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by this section as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the city clerk shall, upon approval of the
city council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail or wine
by the drink within the municipality for such calendar year or the remainder
thereof. (Ord. 325, 11-2-1981)
3-5-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of law enforcement of the state, as
prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of
licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement and the county
in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 237, 11-4-
1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-5-5: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be the same as provided by
city regulations providing for the assignment or transfer of a beer license.
(Ord. 237, 11-4-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-5-6: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
Persons holding a valid wine by the drink license may sell wine for consumption
on the premises only. Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the
retail sale of liquor by the drink, or retailers who do not have a valid wine
by the drink license, shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed
premises, and may sell the wine only in its original unbroken container. The
days and hours for wine sold for consumption on a licensed premises and for
wine sold by the retailer for the consumption off the premises of the retailer
shall be the same as those set by the commission of Gooding County, state of
Idaho. (Ord. 325, 11-2-1981; amd. Ord. 495-A, 12-4-2008)
3-5-7: POSSESSION:
No person may, while operating in or upon a motor vehicle upon a public street
in the city, have in his possession any wine in an open or unsealed container
of any kind. (Ord. 237, 11-4-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-5-8: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   (A)   No person under the age of nineteen (19) years of age may purchase,
consume or possess wine.
   (B)   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of nineteen (19) years.
   (C)   No person under the age of nineteen (19) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he is nineteen (19) years or more of age for the
purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or employee, to
sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   (D)   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is nineteen (19) years or more of age, when in fact such other
person is under the age of nineteen (19) years, for the purpose of inducing
such retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such other person. (Ord. 237,
11-4-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-5-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the mayor and city council
and the mayor and city council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel
any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act
of the licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him or them
on the premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the director of law enforcement shall be deemed prima facie
evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord. 237,
11-4-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-5-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 237, 11-4-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required, Fee
3-6-2: Application For License, Term
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to practice or engage in the
occupation or business of plumbing, plumbing and heating, electrical
installations or general contracting within the corporate limits of the city
without first having procured a written license so to do from the city. (Ord.
186, 7-26-1960)
The original fee to be charged any such applicant for a license shall be as set
by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code, and the cost of renewal of each said license shall also be
as set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code. (Ord. 186, 7-26-1960; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
3-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, TERM:
Licenses for any one or more of the businesses or occupations mentioned in
section
3-6-1 of this chapter shall be issued by the city clerk upon written
application being made therefor and upon the payment of the license fee fixed
by this chapter, provided such applicant possesses and exhibits to the city
clerk when making application for such license, a state of Idaho license
authorizing such applicant to carry on such occupation or business in the state
generally.
Each and all of the licenses so issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire on December 31 of the year in which the same may be issued. (Ord.
186, 7-26-1960)
CHAPTER 7
GAS FITTERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Qualified Installing Agency
3-7-2: Bond Required
3-7-3: Licenses Required
3-7-4: License Fees, Issuance Of License
3-7-5: Expiration And Renewal Of License
3-7-6: Display Of License
3-7-7: Revocation Of License
3-7-1: QUALIFIED INSTALLING AGENCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the work or business of making
gas installations in the city unless such person or responsible person
representing the firm or corporation as hereinafter prescribed has successfully
passed an examination conducted by the gas fitters board of examiners and has
issued to him a certificate of competency by said board in accordance with the
provisions of title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
There shall be three (3) classifications of competency as herein defined:
   (A)   Gas fitting contractor who shall be any person or firm skilled in the
planning and supervision of the installation of gas piping, venting and
equipment, and who is familiar with the laws, rules and regulations covering
the same and who is competent to assume work on a contract basis and to direct
the work of qualified employees. A gas fitting contractor who in person does
gas fitting work shall also be qualified as a journeyman gas fitter, or have in
his employ on all gas fitting work, a qualified journeyman gas fitter.
   (B)   Journeyman gas fitter who shall be any person who, as part of his
principal occupation, is engaged in the practical installation of gas piping
and equipment, and who is familiar with the code requirements governing the
same, and who works under the direction of a gas fitting contractor.
   (C)   Apprentice gas fitter who is any person, other than a journeyman who,
as a part of his principal occupation, is engaged in learning and assisting in
the installation of gas piping and equipment. Apprentices shall not perform gas
installation work except under the supervision of a licensed journeyman gas
fitter. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
3-7-2: BOND REQUIRED:
Every gas fitting contractor, before securing a license as provided for in this
chapter, must furnish a suitable bond to the city in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned to indemnify and save harmless said city from
all loss or damage that may arise through carelessness, neglect or the
violation of any of the provisions of this code; and must further post a
certificate of insurance with the city evidencing the insurance of the gas
fitting contractor against property damage in an amount not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00); and bodily injury with limits of not less than
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per person and fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) total for each occurrence. (1977 Code)
3-7-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
Before any person shall carry on or engage in the work or business of making
gas installations, he shall procure a license applicable to the classification
in which he proposes to work and pay the annual license fee imposed on such
classification. The license shall not be transferable. Every applicant for a
license shall present a certificate of competency as proof that he has been
approved by the board of examiners as competent for the classification sought.
If the applicant be a partnership, firm or corporation, the application shall
be made by a bona fide member or agent thereof, who shall at all times be in
actual charge of the applicant's gas installation business. When any person is
designated and authorized to be or act as an agent for the applicant, such
authorization shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and the person
designated, one copy of which shall be filed with the examining board and one
copy filed in the office of the city building inspector or the city clerk.
(Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
3-7-4: LICENSE FEES, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Before any license is issued the applicant shall pay to the city clerk a
license fee as set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
Upon payment of the above fee and presentation of a valid certificate of
competency, the city clerk shall issue a license certificate indicating clearly
thereon the name of the holder, classification and year for which it is valid.
All money derived from gas fitter licenses shall be placed in the general fund.
(Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
3-7-5: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Gas fitter licenses shall expire on December 31 each year unless sooner revoked
and shall be renewed not later than the following January 15 upon payment of a
fee as set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code for gas fitting contractors and for journeyman gas fitters.
(Ord. 172, 1-9-1957; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
3-7-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All persons holding a valid gas fitting contractor license shall display such
license certificate for public view in their place of business. All journeyman
and apprentice gas fitters holding a valid license shall have available on
their person during working hours their certificate of competency cards with
the current license number endorsed thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to display evidence of license or competency unless so qualified under
this chapter and section
2-3-7 of this code. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
3-7-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any person holding a license shall not lend such license to any other person or
allow any other person to do gas installation work under his license except
licensed journeymen in his employ. Violation of this provision shall be cause
for revocation of license in addition to other penalties provided for such
violation. (Ord. 172, 1-9-1957)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CODES ADOPTED
SECTION:
4-1-1: Building Codes
4-1-2: Electrical Code
4-1-3: Plumbing Code
4-1-4: Fire Code
4-1-1: BUILDING CODES:
   (A)   Building Codes Adopted: The 1997 or latest editions of the following
codes as published by the International Conference of Building Officials,
excluding table 1-A, building permit fees, are hereby adopted by the city, as
follows:
      1.   1997 uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings.
      2.   1997 uniform housing code.
      3.   1998 Idaho commercial building energy code.
      4.   1997 uniform mechanical code and related appendix.
      5.   1997 uniform administrative code.
      6.   1997 edition of the uniform code for building conservation appendix
chapter 13, energy conservation in new building construction, appendix chapter
14, reroofing, appendix chapter 19, protection of residential concrete exposed
to freezing and thawing.
   One copy of the adopted codes, together with adopted appendices, are on file
with the office of the city clerk and may be inspected by any interested person
during regular business hours. (Ord. 418, 4-25-2001)
   (B)   International Codes Adopted:
      1.   Specified: The approved editions of the following nationally
recognized codes, as adopted by the state, are adopted as the official building
codes of the city, except as provided in subsection (B)2 of this section:
         (a)   International building code, including appendices A–J, excepting
sections R103.2 and R103.3.
         (b)   International residential code, parts I–IV and IX, including
appendices A–K, excepting E, I and sections R103.2 and R103.3.
         (c)   International energy conservation code, including appendix,
except that in chapter 7, the reference to the ASHRAE/IESNA 90.1 standard shall
be the 2001 edition of such standard.
         (d)   International existing building code, including appendix A and
B.
   The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive codes as they are adopted or approved by the state, effective on the
date any such codes are made effective.
      2.   Amendments:
         (a)   Amendments to the codes must "establish at least an equivalent
level of protection to that of the adopted building code".
         (b)   The following amendments shall be applicable to the adopted
building codes:
   To the international building code:
   Section 903.2.7 shall be amended to read as follows: Shall be replaced with
sections 903.2.7, 903.2.8, and 903.2.9 of the 2000 international building code
as adopted by the state of Idaho.
      3.   Ground Snow Load: The ground snow load shall be thirty (30) PSF.
      4.   Minimum Frost Depth For Footings: The minimum frost depth for
footings shall be twenty four inches (24").
      5.   Permit Fees: Applicants shall pay permit and plan review fees in
amounts to be determined by resolution of the city council. All permits
required under this subsection require fees to be paid prior to a permit being
issued, unless specified otherwise herein.
      6.   Manufactured Homes Installation Permits: Placement of mobile/
manufactured homes shall require an installation permit. The permit applicant
shall supply to the building official the same site information required from
an applicant seeking a building permit for a single-family dwelling and shall
pay a permit fee as set by resolution of the city council.
      7.   Exemptions: "Agricultural buildings", as defined by the
international building code, are exempt from the building codes adopted herein,
but shall remain subject to placement requirements and permits established by
zoning regulations. (Ord. 444, 2-3-2005)
4-1-2: ELECTRICAL CODE:
All work of electrical wiring, installation and construction, and the
materials, apparatus and fixtures used therein, shall be in accordance with the
rules established in the 1999 edition of the national electrical code hereby
adopted for the city. The Idaho state division of building safety shall inspect
such work and report violations to the building official. (Ord. 423, 9-26-2001)
4-1-3: PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing minimum standards and requirements for the use of and the design,
construction, installation, improvement, extension and alteration of materials,
piping, venting, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in relation to
"plumbing systems", as defined by the uniform plumbing code, and to provide
that all plumbing and plumbing systems shall be designed, constructed,
installed, improved, extended and altered in substantial accord with the
uniform plumbing code published by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, and it shall be amended, revised, compiled and
published from time to time and as such amendments or revisions are adopted by
Idaho plumbing board, and subject to the conditions, exceptions and fees
prevalent in Idaho Code title 54, chapter 26. The Idaho state division of
building safety shall inspect such work and report violations to the building
official. (Ord. 423, 9-26-2001)
4-1-4: FIRE CODE:
   (A)   Adopted: Any editions of the international fire code, as published by
the International Code Council are hereby adopted by the city of Wendell as
they become adopted by the Idaho fire marshal for the state of Idaho. (Ord.
469, 4-5-2007)
   (B)   Revisions: The following sections of the above adopted code, are
hereby revised:
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Wendell.
   Section 109.3 Insert: Misdemeanor.
   Section 111.4 Insert: $300.00 and/or 6 months in jail.
   Section 903.2.7 shall be amended to read as follows: Shall be replaced with
sections 903.2.7, 903.2.8 and 903.2.9 of the 2000 international fire code.
   (C)   Geographic Limits: The geographic limits referred to in certain
sections of the 2003 international fire code are hereby established as follows:
   Section 3204.3.1.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited) within the boundaries
of the city of Wendell.
   Section 3404.9.5.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and
class II liquids in aboveground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited)
within the boundaries of the city of Wendell.
   Section 3406.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and
class II liquids in aboveground tanks is prohibited) within the boundaries of
the city of Wendell.
   Section 3804.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or
congested areas) within the boundaries of the city of Wendell.
(Ord. 455, 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND BUSINESS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Addresses And Numbers Required
4-2-2: Size And Visibility Of Numbers
4-2-3: Naming Of Streets
4-2-4: Clarifications And Amendments To Map
4-2-5: Responsibility Of Owner
4-2-1: ADDRESSES AND NUMBERS REQUIRED:
From and after the passage of this chapter, houses and business buildings
situated in the city, shall have affixed as the legal and proper address
thereof, that certain number as designated on the map of Wendell, Idaho (by
Wendell Smith) designated "ADDRESS - NUMBERS - 1980", a copy of which is on
file in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 311, 6-12-1980, eff. 6-1-1981)
4-2-2: SIZE AND VISIBILITY OF NUMBERS:
Such numbers shall be placed upon the building in such a manner and of
sufficient size as to be plainly and clearly visible from the street or avenue
facing such structure. (Ord. 311, 6-12-1980, eff. 6-1-1981)
4-2-3: NAMING OF STREETS:
For the purpose of providing legal addresses, all such numbers of avenues lying
west of Idaho Street shall be followed by the designation "West"; and on
avenues lying east of Idaho Street shall be followed by the designation "East";
and that all such numbers on streets lying north of Main Street shall be
followed by the designation "North"; and that all such numbers on streets lying
south of Main Street shall be followed by the designation "South"; provided,
however, that such directional designation need not be a part of the number
placed upon such buildings. (Ord. 311, 6-12-1980, eff. 6-1-1981)
4-2-4: CLARIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO MAP:
The mayor and city council may by resolution hereafter duly adopted make such
clarifications and amendments to such map as may be necessary or desirable to
avoid duplicity or ambiguity in such numbering system. (Ord. 311, 6-12-1980,
eff. 6-1-1981)
4-2-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER:
It is the obligation of the owner of the real property to affix such numbers.
(Ord. 311, 6-12-1980, eff. 6-1-1981)
CHAPTER 3
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
SECTION:
4-3-1: Registration Number Required
4-3-1: REGISTRATION NUMBER REQUIRED:
No building permit will be issued without the contractor's registration number
being presented by the contractor, except when the permit applicant provides
evidence that the applicant is exempt from the registration requirements
pursuant to title 54, chapter 52 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 456, 3-16-2006)
TITLE 5
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title And Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Conformance And Permits Required
5-1-4: Area Requirements, Exceptions
5-1-5: Yards In Case Of Corner Lots
5-1-6: Improvements
5-1-7: Screening
5-1-8: Interpretations, Adjustments And Variances
5-1-9: Special Use Permits
5-1-10: Manufactured Homes And Mobile Homes
5-1-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   This title shall be known and cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Wendell, Idaho."
   (B)   The purpose of this ordinance are to provide a comprehensive-design to
lessen congestion in the streets, to secure from fire, panic and other damages,
to promote health and the general welfare, to provide adequate light and air,
to prevent overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to
facilitate the adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage, streets,
parks and other requirements, all with the purpose of conserving the value of
buildings and land and to encourage the most appropriate use of land within
said City. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Ordinance certain terms and words are herewith defined
as follows:
The words "used for" include "designed for" and vice versa: words used in the
present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the
plural and vice versa: the word "building" includes "structure"; and the word
"shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY    The use of land, or of a subordinate building or part thereof, or a portion of a
USE:         main building, such use being accessory to or incidental to the principal use of
             the premises.
             The use of land for farming, dairying, irrigated pasture, cropping,
             horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
             necessary accessory uses for packing, producing food fiber, treating, or storing
             the produce, provided however that:
             A)   The Operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of
AGRICULTURE: normal agricultural activities.
             B)   The above uses shall not include the feeding or sheltering of animals or
             poultry in penned enclosures within 100 feet of any residential zoning district.
             Agriculture does not include operation or maintenance of a commercial stockyard
             or feed yard where large numbers of livestock are fed concentrated feed,
             particularly for the purpose of fattening for market.
APARTMENT:   A building or portion thereof designated for or containing dwelling units.
AUTOMOBILE   Parking and or storage of new and used automobiles which are capable of
STORAGE      immediate operation under their own power.
SPACE:
             An open area, other than a street used for the display, sale or rental of new or
AUTOMOBILE   used automobiles or trailers, and where no repair work is done except minor
AND TRAILER  incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to be displayed, sold or rented on
SALES AREA:  the premises. Automobiles must be capable of operation under their own power at
             all time.
             A space of full story height below the first floor which is not designed or used
BASEMENT:    primarily for year-round living accommodations. Space partly below grade which
             is designed and finished as habitable space is not defined as a basement space.
             Bed and Breakfast means a professionally run facility providing up to 16 rooms
             (rooms shall include all rooms open to the guests, not just bedrooms) for
BED AND      temporary overnight accommodations, and where the owner-innkeeper is resident on
BREAKFAST:   the property. A Bed and Breakfast provides breakfast for overnight guests, but
             does not provide a restaurant and/or bar. Exterior signage must conform with
             sign ordinances of that zone and area.
BOARDING
AND/OR
LODGING      A building or portion thereof, other than a hotel, where lodging and/or meals
HOUSE        for five or more persons are provided for compensation.
INCLUDING
ROOMING
HOUSE:
             Any type of construction of which the structural framework is enclosed and built
BUILDING:    for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property
             of any kind.
             The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed
BUILDING,    finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for
HEIGHT OF:   flat roofs, to the decline of mansard roofs, and to the mean height between
             eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING,    A building erected prior to the adopted of this code, or one for which a legal
EXISTING:    building permit has been issued.
             A building used temporarily for the storage of construction materials and
BUILDING,    equipment incidental and necessary to on-site permitted construction of
TEMPORARY:   utilities, or other community facilities, or used temporarily in conjunction
             with the sale of property within a subdivision under construction.
BUILDING,    A structure that is not permanently attached to a foundation and is designed to
PORTABLE:    be moved. Not to include Recreation Vehicles, Mobile Homes or Manufactured
             Homes.
CARPORT,     A roofed structure of which the sides and ends are not enclosed with materials
DETACHED:    of any kind and completely surrounded by open space.
CARPORT,     Having all or part of one wall common to the dwelling or to a covered porch
ATTACHED:    attached to the dwelling.
COMMISSION:  The Zoning, Planning and Zoning, Joint Planning and Zoning Commission appointed
             by the Council.
COUNCIL:     The City Council of the City of Wendell, Idaho.
             Concentrated animal feeding operation (CAFO) shall mean all agricultural
CONCENTRATED operations that exceed five (5) units per acre in pasturing density for a period
ANIMAL       of more than six months out of each year. Such operations shall not be limited
FEEDING      to an overall number of animals, provided the acre density is not exceeded for
OPERATION:   the total site. Animal unit shall be defined as follows:
             Multiply the number of animals by the animal equivalency factor to determine
             animal units:
Animal Type                                       Animal Equivalency Factor
Cattle over 700 pounds, (slaughter, feeder, dairy 1.0 AU
etc.)
Cattle from 400 to 700 pounds                     .7 AU
Calves under 400 pounds                           .1 AU
Cow/calf pair                                     1.2 AU
Mature dairy cattle (milked or dry cows)          1.0 AU
Swine, (each weighing over 55 pounds)             .4 AU
Horse                                             1.0 AU
Sheep or lambs                                    .2AU
Turkey                                            .02 AU
Laying hen/broiler                                .01 AU
Goat                                              .2AU
For species not specified in this list, 750 pounds of livestock are
equivalent to one animal unit. For example: Bison, Llamas, Donkeys, etc.,
shall use the above weight equivalency unit.
 
                                        Development means any man-made change
                                        to improved or unimproved real estate,
                                        including but not limited to buildings
DEVELOPMENT:                            or other structures, mining, dredging,
                                        filling, grading, paving, excavation or
                                        drilling operations located within the
                                        area of special flood hazard.
                                        Drive-in establishment means an
                                        establishment, other than an automobile
                                        service station, which is designed to
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT:                 accommodate the motor vehicles of
                                        patrons in such manner as to permit the
                                        occupants of such vehicles, while
                                        remaining therein, to make purchase or
                                        receive services.
                                        A building or portion thereof designed
                                        exclusively for residential occupancy,
DWELLING:                               including one-family, two-family, and
                                        multiple dwellings, but not including
                                        hotels, boarding and lodging houses,
                                        trailers, camp-cars, or trailer houses.
                                        Two or more rooms in a dwelling or
DWELLING UNIT:                          apartment hotel designed for occupancy
                                        by one family for living and sleeping
                                        purposes.
                                        A detached building designed
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY:                   exclusively for occupancy by one
                                        family.
                                        A building designed exclusively for
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY:                   occupancy by two families living
                                        independently of each other, including
                                        duplex and semi-detached houses.
                                        A building or portion thereof, designed
DWELLING, MULTIPLE:                     for occupancy by three or more families
                                        living independently of each other and
                                        including apartment hotels.
FAMILY:                                 See OCCUPANCY in this definition
                                        section.
                                        All the property fronting on one (1)
                                        side of a street between intersecting
                                        streets, or between a street and a
                                        right-of-way, waterway, end of dead end
FRONTAGE, ENTIRE:                       Street, or city boundary, measured
                                        along the street line. An intersecting
                                        street shall determine only the
                                        boundary of the frontage on the side of
                                        the street which it intersects.
                                        A building or a portion of a building
GARAGE, PRIVATE:                        in which only motor vehicles used by
                                        the tenants of the building on the
                                        premises are stored or kept.
                                        A garage having all or part of one wall
GARAGE, ATTACHED:                       common to the dwelling or to a covered
                                        porch attached to the dwelling.
GARAGE, DETACHED:                       A garage which is completely surrounded
                                        by open space.
GOVERNING AUTHORITY:                    The City Commission of the City of
                                        Wendell, Idaho.
                                        Any occupation or profession by one or
                                        more members of an immediate family,
                                        without employees and located in not
                                        more than two rooms of a residence or
HOME OCCUPATION:                        its accessory building and without
                                        storage of materials or stock of
                                        finished products for sale on the
                                        premises to the extent that there would
                                        be any outside indication of such
                                        occupation.
                                        Any building containing six or more
                                        rooms intended or designed to be used,
HOTEL:                                  or which are used, rented or hired out
                                        to be occupied, or which are occupied
                                        for sleeping purposes by guests.
                                        An institution for the medical and
HOSPITAL:                               surgical treatment and care for sick
                                        and wounded humans.
INDUSTRIAL USES:
                                        Any manufacturing processing, testing,
                                        energy production, storing, assembling,
                                        testing and similar uses. Any by-
                                        products of noise, smoke, odor, glare,
                                        gas, vibration, dust, light generally
   Light Industrial Use:             are contained within a building or does
                                        not extend beyond the property lines to
                                        have measurable impact upon the
                                        surrounding properties. It does not
                                        refer to the growing of agricultural
                                        crops, or the raising of livestock.
                                        Any manufacture, processing, or testing
                                        of goods and materials, including the
                                        production of power, where the
                                        byproducts of such use include noise,
   Heavy Industrial Use:             smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration,
                                        dust, light, or traffic does extend
                                        beyond the confines of the property and
                                        may have a detrimental effect on
                                        neighboring property
                                        Any area where discarded or salvaged
                                        materials are bought, sold, exchanged,
JUNK YARD:                              baled or packed, disassembled, handled
                                        or stored but not including areas where
                                        such uses are conducted entirely within
                                        a completely enclosed building.
                                        Any lot or premises on which three (3)
KENNEL:                                 or more dogs, at least six (6) months
                                        of age are kept.
                                        Landscaping shall include plant
                                        material which includes the use of a
                                        mixture of ground covers, shrubs and
                                        trees in a variety of one gallon, five
                                        gallon and fifteen gallon sizes.
                                        Preferences shall be given to the use
LANDSCAPING:                            of drought tolerant, low maintenance
                                        native species. Decorative "hard
                                        surface" materials such as, but not
                                        limited to, volcanic rock, gravel or
                                        textured paving or "soft surfaces" such
                                        as, but not limited to, redwood bark or
                                        wood chips may be utilized to fill up
                                        to 40% of the required landscaped area.
                                        An off-street space or berth on the
                                        same lot with a building, or contiguous
                                        to a group of buildings, for the
LOADING SPACE:                          temporary parking of a commercial
                                        vehicle while loading or unloading
                                        merchandise or materials, and which
                                        abuts upon a street, alley or other
                                        appropriate means of access.
                                        A parcel of land occupied or designed
                                        to be occupied by a building and the
                                        accessory buildings or uses customarily
                                        incident to it including such open
LOT:                                    spaces as are arranged and designed to
                                        be used in connection with such
                                        buildings. A lot may or may not be the
                                        land shown as a lot on a recorded
                                        plant.
LOT LINES:                              The lines bounding a lot as defined
                                        herein.
LOT, WIDTH OF:                          The mean width measured at right angles
                                        to its depth:
                                        The horizontal distance between the
LOT DEPTH:                              front and rear hot lines, measured
                                        along the median between the two side
                                        lot lines.
LOT, CORNER:                            A lot situated at the intersection of
                                        two (2) or more streets.
                                        A corner lot the side street line of
LOT, REVERSED CORNER:                   which is substantially a continuation
                                        of the front lot line of the lot to its
                                        rear.
LOT, INTERIOR:                          A lot other than a corner lot.
                                        A parcel of land not less than 5 acres,
LOW DENSITY - A ZONE:                   with only I single family dwelling unit
                                        and/or outbuildings.
                                        A structure built since June 15, 1976
                                        that bears the seal of HUD indicating
                                        it has met the Mobile Home Construction
                                        and Safety Standards of the United
MANUFACTURED HOME:                      States Department of Housing and Urban
                                        Development (HUD Standards) and is used
                                        as a permanent dwelling. Manufactured
                                        homes shall comply with the siting and
                                        development standards set forth in
                                        Idaho Code section 67-6509A.
                                        Any area, tract, plot, or site of land,
                                        whereupon two (2) or more manufactured
                                        homes are placed, located and
                                        maintained for dwelling purposes on a
                                        permanent or semipermanent basis and
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK:                 for which a fee, rental or contract for
                                        payment for such use is collected by or
                                        collectable to the person, firm, trust,
                                        partnership, public or private
                                        association or corporation holding the
                                        land. Any development will conform to
                                        Chapter 14.
                                        A structure that is transportable in
                                        one section built on a permanent
                                        chassis and designed to be used as a
                                        dwelling with or without permanent
                                        foundation when connected to the
                                        required utilities, not to include
MOBILE HOME:                            recreational vehicles. No mobile home
                                        may be placed on a single-family lot
                                        within the City after the effective
                                        date of this ordinance unless it meets
                                        the rehabilitation standard as
                                        specified in Title 44 of the Idaho Code
                                        and also meets the siting standards of
                                        a manufactured home as stated above.
                                        A building or structure or portion
                                        thereof lawfully existing at the time
                                        this ordinance became effective, which
NON-CONFORMING BUILDING:                was used, designed, erected, or
                                        structurally altered, for a use that
                                        does not conform to the use regulations
                                        of the district in which it is located.
                                        A use which lawfully occupied a
                                        building or land at the time this
NON-CONFORMING USE:                     Ordinance became effective and which
                                        does not conform with the use
                                        regulations of the district in which it
                                        is located.
                                        Occupancy shall mean that no
OCCUPANCY:                              residential dwelling shall be occupied
                                        by more than two adult persons per
                                        bedroom.
                                        Space within a building or public
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE:              parking area for the temporary parking
                                        or storage of one (1) automobile.
PATIO:                                  Same as carport.
PORCH:                                  Porch, a covered entrance to a
                                        building.
PREMISES:                               An area of land including a lot, with
                                        or without buildings.
                                        A vehicular type unit designed as
                                        temporary dwelling for recreational,
                                        camping or travel use which is either
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: self propelled, self-contained, or
                                        mounted on or drawn by another vehicle;
                                        including all recreational vehicles,
                                        camping trailers, truck campers, and
                                        motor homes.
                                        Rental space for recreational vehicles/
                                        travel trailers on a limited basis,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/TRAVEL TRAILER     generally overnight but normally not
PARK:                                   longer than six (6) months. This may
                                        include motor homes and pickup campers.
                                        Any development must conform with
                                        Chapter 14.
ROOMING HOUSE:                          See “Boarding House”.
                                        A building or portion thereof and land
                                        used for supplying fuel, oil, and minor
SERVICE STATION:                        accessories for motor vehicles at
                                        retail direct to the customer and for
                                        making minor emergency repairs.
                                        A public thoroughfare not less then
STREET:                                 thirty (30) feet in width, which
                                        affords principal means of access to
                                        abutting property.
                                        The officially established grade, the
STREET GRADE:                           existing grade of the street shall be
                                        taken as the street grade.
STRUCTURE:                              Any type of construction of which the
                                        structural framework is not enclosed.
                                        Any change which would tend to prolong
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS:                 the life of the supporting members of a
                                        building or structure, such as bearing
                                        walls, columns, beams or girders.
                                        An open lot or part thereof, with its
                                        appurtenant facilities, devoted
                                        primarily to the showing of moving
THEATER OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN:               pictures or theatrical productions, on
                                        a paid admission basis, to patrons
                                        seated in automobiles or on outdoor
                                        seats.
                                        The purpose of which land or a building
USE:                                    is arranged, designed or intended for
                                        which either land or a building may be
                                        occupied or maintained.
                                        Variance means a modification of the
                                        requirements of this title as to bulk,
                                        placement requirements, lot size, lot
                                        coverage, width, depth, front yard,
VARIANCE:                               side yard, setbacks, parking space,
                                        height of buildings, or other ordinance
                                        provision affecting the size or shape
                                        of a structure or the placement of the
                                        structure upon lots, or the size of
                                        lots.
                                        An open space on a lot, unoccupied arid
YARD:                                   unobstructed from the ground upward,
                                        except as otherwise provided in this
                                        Ordinance.
                                        A yard extending across the full width
                                        of the lot, the depth of the yard being
YARD FRONT:                             the minimum horizontal distance between
                                        the front lot line and a line parallel
                                        thereto on the lot.
                                        A yard extending across the full width
                                        of the lot, between the most rear main
                                        building and the rear lot line; the
YARD REAR:                              depth of the required rear yard shall
                                        be measured horizontally from the
                                        nearest point of the rear lot line
                                        toward the nearest part of a main
                                        building.
                                        A yard between a main building and the
                                        side lot line, extending from the front
                                        yard, or front lot line where no front
                                        yard is required, to the rear yard; the
YARD SIDE:                              width of the required side yard shall
                                        be measured horizontally from the
                                        nearest point of the side lot line
                                        toward the nearest part of a main
                                        building.
                                        A section of the City for which uniform
                                        regulations concerning the height,
                                        area, size and the use of buildings and
ZONING DISTRICT:                        premises within said section are
                                        established. (Ord. 422, 11-14-2001;
                                        amd. Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; Ord. 517-
                                        2013, 1-17-2013; Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-
                                        2018)
 
5-1-3: CONFORMANCE AND PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or structure shall be hereafter erected, reconstructed,
structurally altered, enlarged, or moved; nor shall any building, structure, or
land be hereafter used for any use other than is permitted in the district in
which such building, structure, or land is located and then only after applying
for and securing a permit. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-
2018)
5-1-4: AREA REQUIREMENTS, EXCEPTIONS:
Except as herein provided, no building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be hereafter erected or located on a lot unless
such building, structure or enlargement conforms with the area, use and yard
regulations of the district in which it is located.
Exceptions to Area Requirements:
   (A)   The front, rear and side yard requirements shall be waived where
dwelling units are erected above stores, shops or other commercial uses, not
requiring such yards.
   (B)   No lot area shall at any time be so reduced that the front, rear or
side yard shall be smaller than prescribed by this Title.
   (C)   Every part of a required yard shall be open from its lowest point to
the sky unobstructed, except as herein provided for accessory building roof-
overhang not exceeding thirty (30) inches, unenclosed entrance platforms and
the ordinary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys and flues.
   (D)   On any corner lot on which a front yard is required by this Title, no
wall, non- vision fence, or other structure shall be erected, and no hedge,
shrub, tree or growth exceeding three (3) feet above the street grade shall be
maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersecting property lines
and a straight line joining said property line at points which are thirty (30)
feet distant from the point of intersection, measured along said street lines.
(See Fence Ordinance # 437 Fence Ordinance).
   (E)   On interior lots, no non-vision fence of any kind, projecting from the
front building line to the front property line shall exceed a height of three
feet (3') except for unobstructed fencing which shall not exceed sixty inches
(60") in height (See Fence Ordinance # 439A Fence Ordinance).
   (F)   On lots of irregular shape where the yard regulations can be
determined but cannot be reasonably complied with, or on lots so located that
appropriate improvements cannot be secured through strict adherence to the yard
regulations, the yard regulations may be modified by the City Council.
   (G)   Fences shall not extend into the city easements or right of ways that
are in use. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-1-5: YARDS IN CASE OF CORNER LOTS:
   (A)   For the "R" Zoning Districts the side yard regulations for corner lots
shall be the same as for interior lots, except in the case of a reversed corner
lot. In this case, there shall be a side yard on the street side of the corner
lot of not less than fifty (50) percent of the front yard required on the lots
in the rear of such corner lot, but such side yards need not exceed fifteen
(15) feet. No accessory building on said reversed corner lot shall project
beyond the front yard line required on the lot in the rear, nor be located
nearer than ten (10) feet to the side lot line of such key lot.
   (B)   For the "C" and "I" Zoning Districts and where a reversed corner lot
rears upon the side of a lot, the side yard on the street side of the reversed
corner lot shall be not less than fifty (50) percent of the front yard required
on the lots in the rear of such corner lot, but such side yard as mentioned
need not exceed ten (10) feet in width. No accessory buildings on said reversed
corner lot shall project beyond the front yard line required on the lot in the
rear, nor shall be located nearer than five (5) feet to the side lot line of
such lot. (Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-1-6: IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Curbing and Sidewalks: Concrete curb and gutter and sidewalk shall be
constructed in accordance with City Regulations on all streets bordering on
property in all districts.
   (B)   Planting: All areas not occupied by buildings or pavement shall be
kept free of weeds.
   (C)   All parking area shall be flood lighted at night during business
hours, and all outside lighting shall be so arranged as to prevent any nuisance
or inconvenience to neighboring properties.
   (D)   No part of any service station pump island shall be closer than twelve
(12) feet to any property line in any district in which a service station is a
permitted use and no marquee or canopy above a service station pump island
located in a District shall be closer than ten (10) feet to any property line.
   (E)   Drainage: No drainage shall be allowed to pass over sidewalks in any
district but shall be contained on the site of any development and allowed to
drain into the soil at rates equal to normal saturation rates. (Ord. 431, 10-
24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-1-7: SCREENING:
Where any lot or parcel located in a commercial or industrial district is used
for any use other than residential and such lot or parcel abuts and/or adjoins
any lot located in a district, said lot or parcel shall be screened from said
residential lot or lots by fencing, masonry walls or other methods to be
approved by the City Council. Screening shall be arranged to provide complete
obstruction of view and a height of not less than seven (7) feet on the side or
end not bounded by a street or alley, and be constructed to reduce noise and to
eliminate trash from blowing into said residential lot or lots. The provision
of subsections
5-1-4(D) and (E) hereof shall govern where conflicting herewith. (Ord. 431, 10-
24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-1-8: INTERPRETATIONS, ADJUSTMENTS AND VARIANCES:
   (A)   Interpretations: The City Council have the power and authority to
interpret the provisions of this Title in its application to any specific case
or situation and the Commission shall interpret the intent of any provision in
its application and said interpretation shall be followed in applying the
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-1-9: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   (A)   Application for Special Use Permit: It is recognized that an
increasing number of new kinds of uses are appearing daily, and that many of
these and some other more conventional uses possess characteristics of such
unique and special nature relative to location, design, size, method of
operation, circulation and public facilities that each specific use must be
considered individually.
   The Commission shall hold a public meeting on a special use permit
application as specified in this Section. The Commission may approve,
conditionally approve or deny a special use permit under the conditions as
herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this Section.
   (B)   Application information: An application for special use permit shall
be filed with the City Clerk by either the owner or lessee of property for
which such special use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain
the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property (with street address).
      3.   Description of proposed special use.
      4.   Zoning district.
      5.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location
of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and circulation,
open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities, signs, and such
other information as the City may require to determine if the proposed special
use meets the intent and requirements of this Section and the Comprehensive
Plan.
      6.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property;
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to
the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Review of Circumstances by Commission: The Commission shall review the
particular facts and circumstances of each proposed special use in terms of the
following standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at
the proposed location:
      1.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established in this
Section for the zoning district involved, in that it is not already defined as
a permitted use in the zoned area.
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the Comprehensive Plan and/or the
Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate In appearance with the existing or Intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area.
      4.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses.
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services and/or that the persons or agencies responsible for establishment for
the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately for any such services.
      6.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major Importance.
      7.   Applies only to the holder of the permit and, does not run with the
property.
   (D)   Conditions, Bonds and Safeguards. In granting any special use, the
Commission may prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards in
conformity with this Section. Violations of such conditions, bonds or
safeguards, when made a, part of the terms under which the special use is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this Section.
   (E)   Public Hearing- Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one
public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard shall be held. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of
the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction.
Notice of the hearing shall also be provided by the applicant to property
owners and residents within the land being considered, three hundred feet
(300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use
as determined by the P&Z Commission. When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or residences, in lieu of mailing notification,
three (3) notices in the newspaper or paper of general circulation is
sufficient; provided, the third notice appears at least ten (10) days prior to
the public hearing.
   (F)   Fees Paid In Advance: All publications and notices required in this
Section shall be paid for in advance by the applicant requesting the special
use permit.
   (G)   Grant or Deny Application: Appeal Council Decision: Within thirty (30)
days after the public hearing, the Commission shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application as presented. If the
application is approved or approved with modifications, the Commission shall
direct the Administrator to issue a special use permit listing the special
conditions specified by the Commission for approval after the appeal period has
elapsed.
      1.   Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to
the special use permit including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
         (b)   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
         (c)   Controlling the duration of development.
         (d)   Assuring the development is properly maintained.
         (e)   Designating the exact location and nature of the development.
         (f)   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public
facilities or services.
         (g)   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally
required in this Section.
      3.   Prior to granting a special use permit, the Commission may request
studies from a special planning staff or other request an engineering study to
be done at applicant's expense. A special use permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other special use permits. A special
use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another.
      4.   Upon granting or denying an application, the Commission shall
specify:
         (a)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
         (b)   The reasons for approval or denial.
         (c)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
      5.   The applicant, or any affected person who appeared in person or in
writing before the Commission may appeal the decision to the City Council. Upon
decision of the City Council, such appeal may proceed to the district court as
provided in the Idaho Code.
      6.   Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered the City
Clerk shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request. (Ord. 357, 8-29-1991; amd. Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-
2018)
5-1-10: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES:
   (A)   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   All installers of manufactured homes shall obtain a building permit
from the City Building Inspector to ensure that the manufactured home is hereby
placed on a site in accordance with the Idaho Manufactured Home Installation
Standard regulating the perimeter foundation, the anchoring of the structure to
its foundation and other building requirements as set forth by the State of
Idaho.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall comply with the siting and development
standards as listed below, and as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6509A. as
amended except for the provisions of subsection 4(E), and the latest edition of
the Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard as adopted by the State of
Idaho.
   (B)   Shall be at least twenty-four feet (24') wide, with a minimum floor
area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   (C)   Shall have a metallic, wood shake or asphalt shingle roof with a
minimum slope of 3/12.
   (D)   Shall have a suitable residential siding.
   (E)   Shall have a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and
durability of a masonry foundation of site-built dwellings and which surrounds
the entire perimeter of the structure and completely encloses the space between
the siding and the finished grade.
   (F)   Shall be permanently affixed and set upon a foundation base having an
anchoring system that is totally concealed under the structure. The running
gear and towing hitch shall be removed.
   (G)   Shall obtain a building permit from the City Building Inspector to
insure that the manufactured home is placed on site in accordance with the
latest edition of the Idaho Manufactured Home Installation standard.
   (H)   Shall meet all other State of Idaho requirements.
      1.   The contractor or installers of manufactured homes shall obtain a
siting permit pursuant to Idaho Code section 44-2202. The cost of such permit
shall be set by the City by resolution.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be allowed in those zoned areas that allow
residential homes to be built.
      3.   Mobile Homes: Mobile homes will only be allowed in designated
manufactured/mobile home parks or on a single family lot if meeting the siting
standards set forth for manufactured homes and meeting the Rehabilitation
Standards as set forth in Idaho Code, Title 44. (Ord. 391, 9-25-1996; amd. Ord.
431, 10-24-2002; Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
CHAPTER 2
DISTRICTS, MAPS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Districts Established
5-2-2: Zoning Map, Boundaries
5-2-3: Zoning Boundary Changes
5-2-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
 
Districts                                             Short Title
Residential Single Family                             R
Commercial                                            C
Industrial                                            I
Agricultural-Residential low density (1 acre or more) A
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534, 2-15-2018)
5-2-2: ZONING MAP, BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the zones provided herein are established and shown on a
certain map which is designated the official zoning map, which is on file by
ordinances in the office of the city clerk, and said map and all subsequent
annexations and all amendments as may be made are hereby declared to be a part
of this title. All zones and boundaries thereon provided are hereby confirmed,
and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are declared
to be a part of this title. All subsequent changes in boundaries of zones shall
be made according to law and by ordinance and when so made and designated on
said map, then said changes shall be effective and by reference shall become a
part of this title. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-2-3: ZONING BOUNDARY CHANGES:
The following to be changed from residential to commercial:
   Lots 6 to 11 inclusive Block 123;
   West 150 feet, Block 138;
   Avenue E adjacent to Lots 9, 10, and 11, Block 123 and west 150 feet Block
138;
   Lots 1 and 8 inclusive Block 139;
   Lots 3 to 8 inclusive Block 140;
   Avenue E adjacent to Blocks 122 and 139;
   Avenue E adjacent to Lots 9 and 14 inclusive Block 121 and Lots 3 and 8
inclusive Block 140;
   North 60 feet of M and N.S.R.R. right of way adjacent to:
      West 150 feet, Block 138, Block 139 and Lots 3 to 8 inclusive Block 140;
(Ord. 321, 1-8-1981)
      Lots 12 and 13, Block 123, Wendell Townsite. (Ord. 377, 8-24-1995)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-3-1: Uses
5-3-2: Special Uses
5-3-3: Lot (Parcel) Area
5-3-4: Yards
5-3-5: Off Street Parking
5-3-1: USES:
Accessory buildings and uses.
Dwellings, providing there shall not be more than one residential building on
each lot (parcel).
One-family dwelling structures.
Publicly funded schools and colleges. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-
2018, 2-15-2018)
5-3-2: SPECIAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment:
The following special uses may be permitted in a residential zone:
   Duplexes, multi-family and manufactured home parks.
   Home occupations in conformance with section
5-13-1 of this title; provided, however, that any individual operating a Home
Occupation, without first obtaining a special use permit, which was in
existence and operating prior to March 02, 2023, shall be permitted to continue
operating said Home Occupation upon registering with the city clerk or designee
on or before April 07, 2023, and by providing such information regarding the
Home Occupation as may be required by the city. Failure to register with the
city clerk or designee on or before April 07, 2023, shall result in termination
of the right to continue operating a Home Occupation without first obtaining a
special use permit.
   Neighborhood commercial uses serving the local residents.
   Nursing or convalescent homes, assisted living facilities.
   Planned unit developments.
   Private kindergarten or daycare or nursery, private schools.
   Public utilities and public service uses or structures.
   Religious institutions, including places of worship, schools and convents.
   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be considered
under a special use application. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-
15-2018; Ord. 547-2023, 3- -2023)
5-3-3: LOT (PARCEL) AREA:
   (A)   Minimum Per Dwelling Unit: The minimum lot (parcel) area per dwelling
unit shall not be less than six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet.
   (B)   Minimum For Nonresidential Uses: The minimum lot (parcel) area for
uses other than residential shall not be less than nine thousand (9,000) square
feet.
   (C)   Additional Dwelling Units (duplex, triplex, fourplex): The minimum lot
(parcel) area for each additional dwelling unit exceeding a one-family dwelling
shall not be less than two thousand (2,000) square feet per unit and provided
there shall not be more than one residential building on each lot (parcel).
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-3-4: YARDS:
   (A)   Front Yards: A front yard shall be provided of a depth of not less
than twenty feet (20') in occupied areas, except where a building exceeds
thirty five feet (35') in height, in which case the front yard shall be
increased one foot (1') in depth for each five feet (5') the building height
exceeds thirty five feet (35').
   (B)   Rear Yards: A rear yard shall be provided of a depth of not less than
thirty feet (30'), except where a building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in
height, in which case the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth
for each five feet (5') the building height exceeds thirty five feet (35').
   (C)   Side Yards: Side yards for residential uses shall be required. No part
of any residence or attachment thereto, shall extend, or be, closer than seven
feet (7') from the edge of the side property line. All parts of each residence,
including eaves, shall be at least seven feet (7') from the side property line,
measured as if the side property line extended vertically for an indefinite
distance.
   (D)   Rear yard setbacks from the alley property line three feet (3') to any
structure measured from the eve line.
   (E)   The minimum lot (parcel) area for uses other than residential shall
not be less than 9,375 square feet. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018,
2-15-2018)
5-3-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   Each dwelling shall have a driveway or parking space for not less than
two (2) motor vehicles with an approach from the street or alley.
   (B)   All other parking shall be as required by chapter 10 of this title.
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-6-1: Uses
5-6-2: Special Uses
5-6-3: Lot Areas
5-6-4: Yards
5-6-5: Off Street Parking
5-6-1: USES:
Accessory uses when located on the same lot; provided, that no retail store or
business shall involve any treatment of products other than that which is
clearly incidental and essential to such retail store or business and where all
such products are offered for sale at retail on the premises.
Amusement enterprises, if conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building.
Apartment hotels.
Automobile or trailer sales area; provided, that any incidental repair of
automobiles, vehicles or trailers shall be conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building.
Automobile service stations.
Baked goods shop.
Bank.
Beauty shop or barbershop.
Blueprinting or photostating.
Book or stationery store.
Business and professional offices.
Business colleges.
Clothes cleaning agency, laundry agency, pressing establishment or launderette,
self-service dry cleaning.
Dressmaking or millinery shops.
Drive-in establishments.
Dry goods or notions shop.
Florist or gift shop.
Frozen food lockers.
Grocery, fruit, vegetable, meat or delicatessen store.
Hardware, furniture or electrical appliance store.
Hospitals and sanatoriums.
Hotels, motels, tourist courts, duplex and multiplex.
Mortuaries.
Nursery schools and kindergartens.
Package liquor store.
Photographic shop or studio.
Plant nurseries.
Plumbing, electrical and paint stores for retail sales only.
Private or public schools and colleges for academic instruction.
Public garages.
Publishing and printing shop.
Residential use if it is an existing home.
Restaurant and bars.
Retail lumberyard.
Shoe or shoe repair shops.
Studios, except motion picture.
Tailor, clothing or wearing apparel stores.
Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be considered.
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-6-2: SPECIAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment.
The following special uses may be permitted in the C zone:
   Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
   Animal clinic, animal hospital and veterinary office which treat or house
animals on site.
   Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas and similar uses.
   Bars and taverns.
   Bus and railroad stations.
   Cemeteries, mausoleums and crematories.
   Parks, playgrounds, community centers and other recreational uses operated
by other than a governmental agency.
   Planned unit developments.
   Recreational vehicle parks.
   Religious institutions, including places of worship, schools and convents.
   Research and development centers for experimental or scientific
investigation of materials, methods or products.
   Residential units in connection with a commercial development.
   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be considered
under a special use application. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 492, 4-16-
2009)
5-6-3: LOT AREAS:
   (A)   Residential Uses: The minimum lot area for residential uses within
this district shall not be less than the total square feet of area required for
front, rear and side yards, off street parking space and first floor area of
the building; provided, that no lot area shall be less than six thousand two
hundred fifty (6,250) square feet.
   (B)   Other Uses: No requirements for uses other than residential. (Ord.
431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-6-4: YARDS:
   (A)   Front Yards: Front yards for residential uses shall be provided of a
depth of not less than twenty feet (20'), except where a building exceeds
thirty five feet (35') in height, in which case the front yard shall be
increased one foot (1') in depth for each five feet (5') that the building
exceeds thirty five feet (35').
   (B)   Rear Yards: Rear yards for residential uses shall be provided of a
depth of not less than twenty five feet (25'), except where a building exceeds
thirty five feet (35') in height, in which case the rear yard shall be
increased one foot (1') in depth for each five feet (5') the building height
exceeds thirty five feet (35').
   (C)   Side Yards: Side yards for residential uses shall be required. No part
of any residence or attachment thereto, shall extend, or be, closer than seven
feet (7') from the edge of the side property line. All parts of each residence,
including eaves, shall be at least seven feet (7') from the side property line,
measured as if the side property line extended vertically for an indefinite
distance.
   (D)   Detached Accessory Buildings For Residential Uses: Detached accessory
buildings may be constructed on the rear yard area; providing, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than three feet (3') to any side or
rear lot line, nor closer than ten feet (10') to the rearmost wall of the main
building. If attached to the main building or located at a lesser distance than
ten feet (10') from the rearmost wall of the main building, side yards as
required for the main building will be required for the accessory buildings.
   (E)   Other Uses: No requirements for uses other than residential. (Ord.
431, 10-24-2002)
5-6-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be as required by chapter 10 of this title. Off street
loading and unloading spaces shall be as required by chapter 10 of this title.
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-7-1: Uses
5-7-2: Special Uses
5-7-3: Yards
5-7-4: Off Street Parking
5-7-5: Buffering
5-7-1: USES:
Any use permitted in districts R and C, however, only those residential uses
necessitated by the housing of a caretaker or watchman unless delineated below:
Any use considered light industrial, not including those uses which are or may
become obnoxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, gas, fumes, cinders, vibrations, refuse matter or water carried waste as
determined by the city council.
Automobile parking spaces required for dwellings and for buildings other than
dwellings, as required in chapter 10 of this title.
Residential use if it is an existing home. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-7-2: SPECIAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment.
The following special uses may be permitted in the I zone:
   Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
   Heavy industrial uses.
   Industrial or business parks.
   Planned unit developments of an industrial nature.
   Public utilities and public service uses or structures.
   Recreational vehicle parks.
   Research and development centers for experimental or scientific
investigation of materials, methods or products.
   Security residence for watchman or guard or for other operational needs.
   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be considered
under a special use application. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 492, 4-16-
2009; Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-7-3: YARDS:
   (A)   Front Yards: Front yards shall be provided of a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20'), except where a building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in
height, in which case the front yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth
for each five feet (5') that the building exceeds thirty five feet (35').
   (B)   Rear Yards: Rear yards shall be provided of a depth of not less than
thirty feet (30'), except where a building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in
height, in which case the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth
for each five feet (5') the building height exceeds thirty five feet (35').
   (C)   Side Yards: Side yards for residential uses shall be required. For
each seven feet (7') of building height, there shall be provided one foot (1')
of side yard on each side of the main building; provided, that no side yard
shall be less than five feet (5').
   (D)   Detached Accessory Buildings For Residential Uses: Detached accessory
buildings may be constructed on the rear yard area; providing, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than three feet (3') to any side or
rear lot line nor closer than ten feet (10') to the rearmost wall of the main
building. If attached to the main building or located at a lesser distance than
ten feet (10') from the rearmost wall of the main building, side yards as
required for the main building will be required for the accessory buildings.
   (E)   Other Uses: No requirements for uses other than residential. (Ord.
431, 10-24-2002)
5-7-4: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be as required by chapter 10 of this title. Off street
loading and unloading spaces shall be as required by chapter 10 of this title.
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-7-5: BUFFERING:
New development in the industrial zone shall be buffered by landscaping, at the
property line, from any public street or adjacent differing land use, unless
otherwise required through landscaping of a parking lot. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
CHAPTER 8
ZONING AMENDMENT PROCESS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Authority To Amend
5-8-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
5-8-3: Amendment Application, Contents
5-8-4: City Council Action
5-8-5: Public Hearing
5-8-6: Public Hearings Notice Requirements
5-8-7: Action By City Council
5-8-8: Resubmission Of Application
5-8-9: Zone Boundary Change; Publication Of Notice
5-8-1: AUTHORITY TO AMEND:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, the city council may, by ordinance, after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the designated city representative and subject to
procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the
regulations, restrictions and boundaries or classification of property. (Ord.
557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   (A)   By adoption of a motion by the city council.
   (B)   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who
has an existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-3: AMENDMENT APPLICATION, CONTENTS:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall be provided to the designated city representative and shall contain
at least the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   (B)   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the council.
   (C)   Present land use.
   (D)   Present zoning district.
   (E)   Proposed use.
   (F)   Proposed zoning district.
   (G)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the designated city
representative showing the property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed
zoning requests.
   (H)   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within five hundred feet (500') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered.
   (I)   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to a comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area.
   (J)   A fee as established by the council. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-4: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
Zoning districts, zoning subdistricts and overlay districts shall be amended in
the following manner:
   (A)   Requests for an amendment to this title shall be submitted to the
designated city representative which shall evaluate the request to determine
the extent and nature of the amendment requested;
   (B)   If the request is in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the city
council may adopt or reject the ordinance amendment under the notice and
hearing procedures as herein provided; and
   (C)   If the request is not in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the
request shall be submitted to the city council which may adopt or reject an
amendment to a comprehensive plan under the notice and hearing procedures.
(Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
The city council shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on
proposed zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or map
revisions.
   (A)   Zoning Title Amendment: The city council, shall conduct at least one
public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. Notice for public hearings shall be provided. Following the city
council's hearing, if the city council makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
by the city council.
   (B)   Zoning Map Amendment: The city council, prior to considering a zoning
map amendment that is in accordance with a comprehensive plan, shall conduct at
least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity
to be heard. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-6: PUBLIC HEARINGS NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Public notice shall be provided for land use actions requiring a public
hearing. Public notice shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Mail: Mail notice shall be provided as follows when required:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place of the hearing and a summary of the proposal shall be provided by
mail to the following:
         a.   Property owners, or purchasers of record, within the land being
considered;
         b.   Property owners, or purchasers of record, within five hundred
feet (500') of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
         c.   Any additional property owners, or purchasers of record, that may
be impacted by the proposed change as determined by the designated city
representative; and
         d.   All political subdivisions providing services within the planning
jurisdiction, including the city, school districts, and law enforcement.
   (B)   Site Posting: Notice shall be posted on site as follows when required:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place of the hearing and a summary of the proposal shall be posted on the
premises.
         a.   Notice shall be provided by not less than one sign located on the
subject property adjacent to each street frontage of the property. In the event
that the subject property is not adjacent to a public street, signs may be
placed within the nearest public street right of way with prior approval from
the administrator and the owner of the right of way.
         b.   Signs shall be placed on the property so as to remain clearly
visible from adjacent streets. In the event that visibility of signs located on
the property is obstructed, signs may be placed within the adjacent street
right of way with prior approval from the administrator and the owner of the
right of way.
         c.   If a property contains three hundred (300) or more feet of street
frontage on a single street, one sign shall be placed on the property for each
three hundred feet (300'), or portion thereof, of the street frontage.
   (C)   Newspaper: Newspaper notice shall be provided as follows when
required:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place of the hearing and a summary of the proposal shall be published in
the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction
of the city.
      2.   The city clerk shall cause the newspaper notice to be prepared and
published.
   (D)   Press Release: A press release shall be provided as follows when
required:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place of the hearing and a summary of the proposal shall be made available
as a press release to news media outlets serving the jurisdiction, including
newspapers, radio, and television stations.
      2.   The city clerk shall cause the press release to be prepared and made
available to news media outlets. The city cannot guarantee that media outlets
will broadcast the press release.
   (E)   City Website: Notice shall be provided on the city website as follows
when required:
      1.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place of the hearing and a summary of the proposal shall be posted on the
city website.
      2.   The city clerk shall cause the notice to be posted on the city
website.
   (F)   Public hearings for appeals, related to a city representative
decision, on interpretation and administration of this title, zoning title
amendments not relating to a specific property, and comprehensive plan
amendments not relating to a specific property are not required to provide mail
and site posting notice. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-7: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment to
this title shall conduct at least one public hearing using the same notice and
hearing procedures as required by law. Following the city council hearing, if
said city council makes a material change from what was presented at the public
hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the city council
adopts the amendment.
Upon granting or denying an application to amend this title, the city council
shall specify:
   (A)   The regulations and standards used in evaluating the application.
   (B)   The reasons for approval or denial.
   (C)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
In the event the city council shall approve an amendment, such amendment shall
thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation and passage of an
ordinance. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
5-8-8: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the city council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or
with reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within
a period of one year from the date of such final action; unless there is an
amendment in a comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions as
applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-
2024)
5-8-9: ZONE BOUNDARY CHANGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE:
Whenever a zoning district boundary change is contemplated by the city, notice
of said proposed zoning district boundary change and the hearing thereon shall
be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within
the jurisdiction of the city once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks, with
at least one of said publications being fifteen (15) days prior to the date set
for hearing on the proposed zoning district boundary change and for which said
notice is given. (Ord. 557-2024, 5-2-2024)
 CHAPTER 9
AGRICULTURAL-LOW DENSITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-9-1: Uses
5-9-2: Special Uses
5-9-3: Lot Area
5-9-4: Yards
5-9-5: Off Street Parking
5-9-1: USES:
Advertising signs and structures.
Agriculture.
Church.
Dwelling, single-family.
Gift shop.
Home occupation.
Nursery for flowers and plants.
Roadside stands (seasonal). (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-9-2: SPECIAL USES:
The planning commission may, after notice and public hearing, permit the
following uses where such uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare. The commission shall have the authority to impose such
conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests
of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or
other detriment.
The following special uses may be permitted in the A zone:
   Amusement center indoor.
   Archery range indoor.
   Asphalt plant.
   Auto repair.
   Auto sales, service, storage, rental.
   Automotive wrecking yard.
   Bakery or bakery goods store.
   Bank, saving, loans.
   Barber, beauty shop.
   Beverage bottling plant.
   Billboard manufacturing.
   Boat building.
   Boat mooring.
   Bowling alley.
   Building supply outlet/lumberyard.
   Business college, trade school.
   Cabinet shop.
   Campground.
   Car wash.
   Cemetery.
   Chemical storage and manufacturing.
   Cleaning, commercial dry cleaning.
   Cleaning, laundromat.
   Clinic, outpatient.
   Club building.
   Dairy products processing.
   Dance, music, or voice studio.
   Daycare center.
   Drive-in restaurant.
   Drive-in theater.
   Drugstore.
   Dwelling, multi-family.
   Dwelling, rooming house.
   Dwelling, two-family.
   Equipment rental, sales yard.
   Fairgrounds.
   Farm heavy equipment, sales and service.
   Florist.
   Food processing plant.
   Food stand.
   Food stores, delicatessen.
   Frozen food locker.
   Fuel yard.
   Furniture refinishing.
   Furniture shop.
   Golf course.
   Grain storage.
   Hospitals.
   Hotels.
   Institutional residential.
   Junkyard.
   Kennels.
   Labor camp.
   Laboratory, medical, dental, optical.
   Laundry, commercial.
   Machine shop.
   Manufactured home court.
   Manufacturing, extractive.
   Manufacturing, homes.
   Meatpacking plant.
   Monument works, stone.
   Mortuary.
   Motel.
   Nursing home.
   Office, medical professional.
   Parking, lot, garage or facility.
   Photographic studio.
   Planing mill.
   Printing, blueprinting.
   Public service facility.
   Racetracks, motor vehicles/animals.
   Railroad yard and shop.
   Recreational vehicle park.
   Recreational vehicle sales yards.
   Recycling plant.
   Reducing salon, masseur.
   Rendering plant.
   Restaurant, bar.
   Retail store, services.
   Rodeo arena.
   Schools academic.
   Service station.
   Shop for building, construction.
   Swimming pool, public.
   Temporary use.
   Tennis court, public.
   Terminal yard, trucking.
   Tire shop, including recapping.
   Trailer, manufactured home.
   Trap club.
   Truck and tractor repair.
   Used car sales.
   Veterinary clinic.
   Warehousing, wholesaling.
   Wholesale stores distributor.
   Wood processing plant.
   Other uses deemed similar by the city to the uses above may be considered
under a special use application. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-9-3: LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area for all uses shall not be less than one acre or forty
three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-9-4: YARDS:
   (A)   Front Yards: A front yard shall be provided of a depth of not less
than fifty feet (50') from a public road right of way.
   (B)   Rear Yards: Not less than fifty feet (50') from a public road right of
way.
   (C)   Side Yards: A side yard shall be provided of a depth of not less than
five feet (5') and not less than fifty feet (50') from a public road right of
way.
   (D)   Detached Accessory Building For Farm Or Residential Uses: A front and
side yard shall be provided of a depth of not less than thirty feet (30') from
a public road right of way. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-9-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   Each farm or dwelling unit shall provide adequate off street parking
for all necessary farm equipment and two (2) private vehicles.
   (B)   All other parking shall be as required in chapter 10 of this title.
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
CHAPTER 10
PARKING
SECTION:
5-10-1: Off Street Parking
5-10-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   Minimum Requirement: There shall be provided at the time of the
erection of any main building or structure, or at the time any main building or
structure is enlarged or increased in capacity, or whenever there is a change
in the use of the structure or building, a minimum off street parking space of
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20'), with adequate provisions for ingress and
egress by standard size automobiles as provided in this section.
   (B)   Parking Spaces: Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses
not listed in this chapter shall be determined by the planning and zoning board
at the time the conditional use is granted.
Type Of Use Minimum Number Of Off Street Minimum Number Of Off Street Parking
            Parking Spaces For Employees Spaces For Guests
                          Minimum Number Of Off      Minimum Number Of Off
Type Of Use               Street Parking Spaces For  Street Parking Spaces For
                          Employees                  Guests
                                                     Parking space 2 private
                                                     vehicles for each
Agricultural              1 space for each employee  residence and all
                                                     necessary off street
                                                     parking for all farm
                                                     equipment
Barber and beauty shops   1 for each employee        2 for each chair
                          1 space for each church
                          official or resident on    1 space for each 4 seats
Churches                  the premises, plus spaces  or each 80 inches of
                          equal in number to 50      benches
                          percent of the number of
                          employees
Collection offices        1 for each employee        2 spaces
                          Shall have a minimum of 1  Minimum of 2 spaces per
Each business in          off street space for each  dwelling unit and
districts R, C and I      employee                   applicable business
                                                     description
Four-family dwellings     8 spaces                   Plus 2 guest spaces
Gift and flower shops     1 for each employee        1 for each 125 square feet
                                                     of sales area
Grocery stores,                                      1 space for every 200
drugstores and bakeries,  1 for each employee        square feet of floor area
others not defined
                                                     Plus not less than the
                                                     number of spaces equaling
Hotels                    1 space for each employee  80 percent of the number
                                                     of rooms to be occupied by
                                                     tenants or guests
                          A minimum of 1 off street
Industrial                parking space for each 2   1 space for each office
                          employees
Lodge halls, club houses                             Not less than 50 percent
and institutions for      1 space for each employee  of the total membership
philanthropic and                                    for parking spaces
eleemosynary purposes
                                                     Plus 1 guest space for
More than four-family                                every 3 dwelling units or
dwellings                 1 space for each employee  portion thereof and not
                                                     less than 2 times the
                                                     number of dwelling units
                          1 space for each employee  1 space for each 4 seats
                          or resident on the         or each 80 inches of
Mortuaries                premises, plus 1 space for benches in the chapel or
                          each 2 employees not       auditorium
                          living on the premises
                                                     Plus 1 guest space for
                                                     every 3 dwelling units or
Motel and tourist courts  1 space for each employee  portion thereof and not
                                                     less than 2 times the
                                                     number of dwelling units
Pick up stations          1 for each employee        2 spaces
Plant nurseries where
goods are not sold on the 1 for each employee        2 spaces
premises
Plant nurseries where
goods are sold on the     1 for each employee        10 spaces
premises
                                                     2 for each professional
Professional offices      1 for each employee        person located in the
                                                     building
                          Parking requirements shall
Public entertainment      be established by the
establishments and        planning and zoning board  Established by the
community service uses    of commissioners before    planning and zoning board
                          the approval of a building
                          permit
                                                     2 for each professional
Real estate offices       1 for each employee        person located in the
                                                     building
Restaurants               1 for each employee        1 for each 4 seats or 30
                                                     inches of seating capacity
Single-family dwellings                             2 spaces
Three-family dwellings    6 spaces                   Plus 1 guest space
Two family dwellings                                4 spaces
 
   (C)   Commercial And Industrial Uses: Each commercial and industrial use in
any district shall provide an adequate off street loading and unloading space.
   (D)   Landscaping: A landscaping plan is required for all parking lots
located in commercial or industrial zones. Such plan must be submitted at the
time of the development application. A three foot (3') minimum buffer at the
public way shall be provided for all parking areas of five (5) or more parking
spaces.
   (E)   Drainage: Drainage shall be provided for on site. All parking and
loading areas shall be provided for proper drainage of surface water to prevent
the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or walkways.
   (F)   Curb, Gutter And Sidewalks: Parking in commercial and industrial zones
with five (5) or more spaces shall be separated from street parking by curb,
gutter and sidewalks, which shall include landscaping as per subsection (D) of
this section. Such plan must be part of the plans submitted to the building
department.
   (G)   Combination Of Uses: Where there is a combination of uses on a lot,
the required number of parking spaces shall be the sum of that found for each
use.
   (H)   Location Of Lot: The parking spaces required by this chapter shall be
provided on the same lot as the use or, where the exclusive use of such is
provided on another lot, not more than five hundred feet (500') radially from
the subject lot within the same or less restrictive zoning district.
   (I)   Accessible Spaces: Accessible parking spaces and passenger loading
zones shall be provided in accordance with the building code. Passenger loading
zones shall be designed and constructed in accordance with ICC A117.1.
   (J)   Parking Stall Dimensions: Parking stall dimensions shall be in
accordance with subsections (J)1 and (J)2 of this section.
      1.   Width: A minimum width of nine feet (9') shall be provided for each
parking stall.
   Exceptions:
         (a)   Compact parking stalls shall be permitted to be eight feet (8')
wide.
         (b)   Parallel parking stalls shall be permitted to be eight feet (8')
wide.
         (c)   Accessible parking spaces shall be designed in accordance with
ICC A117.1.
      2.   Length: A minimum length of twenty feet (20') shall be provided for
each parking stall.
   Exceptions:
         (a)   Compact parking stalls shall be permitted to be eighteen feet
(18') in length.
         (b)   Parallel parking stalls shall be a minimum twenty two feet (22')
in length.
   (K)   Design Of Parking Facilities: The design of parking facilities shall
be in accordance with this subsection (K) through subsection (R) of this
section.
   (L)   Driveway Width: Every parking facility of five (5) or more spaces
shall be provided with one or more access driveways, the width of which shall
be the following:
   All Driveways:
      1.   Twelve feet (12') for one-way enter or exit.
      2.   Twenty four feet (24') for two-way enter or exit.
   (M)   Driveway And Ramp Slopes: The maximum slope of any driveway or ramp
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%). Transition slopes in driveways and ramps
shall be provided in accordance with the standards set by the code official and
the jurisdiction's engineer.
   (N)   Stall Access: Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that
any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or onto a public or
private street shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for
parking areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle
entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or
motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street.
Each required parking stall shall be individually and easily accessed. No
automobile shall be required to back onto any public street or sidewalk to
leave any parking stall when such stall serves more than two (2) dwelling units
or other than residential uses. All portions of a public lot or garage shall be
accessible to other portions thereof without requiring the use of any public
street.
   (O)   Compact To Standard Stall Ratio: The maximum ratio of compact stalls
to standard stalls in any parking area shall not exceed one to two (1:2).
   (P)   Screening: A three foot (3') buffer at the public way shall be
provided for all parking areas of five (5) or more parking spaces. Whenever a
parking area is located in or adjacent to a residential district, it shall be
effectively screened on all sides which adjoin or face any property used for
residential purposes by an acceptable designed wall, fence or planting screen.
Such fence, wall or planting screen shall be not less than four feet (4'), not
more than six feet (6') in height and shall be maintained in good condition.
The space between such fence, wall or planting screen and the lot line of the
adjoining premises in any residential district shall be landscaped with grass,
hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover, and maintained in good condition. In
the event that terrain or other natural features are such that the erection of
such fence, wall or planting screen will not serve the intended purpose, then
no such fence, wall or planting screen and landscaping shall be required.
   (Q)   Striping: All parking stalls shall be striped.
   Exception: A private garage or parking area for the exclusive use of a
single-family dwelling or duplex.
   (R)   Lighting: All lights illuminating a parking area shall be designed and
located so as to reflect away from any street and adjacent property.
   (S)   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking and/or loading
shall maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all dust,
trash and other debris.
   (T)   Paving: The required number of parking and loading spaces as set
forth, together with driveways, aisles and other circulation areas, shall be
improved with such material to provide a durable and dust free surface.
   Exception: Single-family dwelling and duplexes.
   (U)   Wheel Blocks: Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel
blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a
parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   (V)   Loading Spaces:
      1.   General: Loading spaces shall be provided on the same lot for every
building in the C or I zones. No loading space is required if prevented by an
existing lawful building. The code official shall be authorized to waive this
requirement on unusual lots.
      2.   Size: Each loading space shall have a clear height of fourteen feet
(14') and shall be directly accessible through a usable door not less than
three feet (3') in width and six feet eight inches (6'8") high. The minimum
area of a loading space shall be four hundred (400) square feet and the minimum
dimensions shall be twenty feet (20') long and ten feet (10') deep. (Ord. 443,
2-3-2005)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
5-11-1: Non-Conforming Uses
5-11-2: Extension Of Non-Conforming Use
5-11-1: NON-CONFORMING USES:
The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing at the time of the
enactment of this title may be continued, although such use does not conform
with the provisions of this title, provided the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Unsafe Structures: Nothing in this title shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any portion of a building or
structure declared unsafe by a proper authority.
   (B)   Alterations: A nonconforming building or structure may be altered,
improved or reconstructed, provided such work is not to an extent exceeding in
aggregate cost of one hundred percent (100%) of the assessed value of the
building or structure in any five (5) year period, unless the building or
structure is changed to a conforming use.
   (C)   Extension: A nonconforming use shall not be extended but the extension
of a lawful use to any portion of a nonconforming building or structure which
existed prior to the enactment of this Title shall not be deemed the extension
of such nonconforming use.
   (D)   Changes: No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be changed
to another nonconforming use.
   (E)   Restoration: Nothing in this title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing, rebuilding and continued use of any nonconforming building or
structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or act of God, subsequent to the
date of this title, wherein the expense of such work does not exceed one
hundred percent (100%) of the replacement value of the building or structure at
the time such damage occurred.
   (F)   Wear And Tear: Nothing in this title shall prevent the reconstruction,
repairing or rebuilding of a nonconforming structure or part thereof existing
at the effective date of this title, rendered necessary by wear and tear,
deterioration or depreciation.
   (G)   Abandonment: A nonconforming use of a building or premises which has
been abandoned shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use. A
nonconforming use shall be considered abandoned after one year except as
provided in section
5-11-2 of this chapter:
      1.   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent; or
      2.   When the characteristic equipment and the furnishings of the
nonconforming use have been removed from the premises and have not been
replaced by similar equipment within six (6) months, unless other facts show
intention to resume the nonconforming use; or
      3.   When it has been replaced by a conforming use; or
      4.   When it has been changed to another use under permit from the board
of adjustment.
   (H)   Displacement: No nonconforming use shall be extended to displace a
conforming use.
   (I)   Unlawful Use Not Authorized: Nothing in this title shall be
interpreted as authorization for or approval of the continuance of the use of a
structure or premises in violation of the zoning regulations in effect at the
time of the effective date of this title.
   (J)   District Changes: Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be
changed so as to transfer an area from one district to another district of a
different classification, the foregoing provisions shall also apply to any
nonconforming uses existing therein. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018,
2-15-2018)
5-11-2: EXTENSION OF NON-CONFORMING USE:
   (A)   If the nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of one year or
longer, the city shall, by written request, require that the owner declare his
intention with respect to the continued nonuse of the improvements, in writing,
within twenty eight (28) days of receipt of the request. If the owner elects to
continue the nonuse, he shall notify the city, in writing, of his intention and
shall post the property with notice of his intent to continue the nonuse of the
improvements. He shall also publish notice of his intent to continue the nonuse
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where the property is
located. If the property owner complies with the requirements of this
subsection, his right to use such improvements in the future for their designed
purpose shall continue for a period of ten (10) years, notwithstanding any
change in the zoning of the property.
   (B)   The property owner may voluntarily elect to withdraw the use by filing
with the clerk of the city or the county, as the case may be, an affidavit of
withdrawn use. If the property is redesigned for a different use, the property
owner shall be deemed to have abandoned any grandfather right to the prior use
of the property.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, "designed purpose" means the use for
which the improvements were originally intended, designed and approved pursuant
to any applicable planning and zoning ordinances.
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit a city from
passing or enforcing any other law or ordinance for the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018,
2-15-2018)
CHAPTER 12
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-12-1: Purpose
5-12-2: Definitions
5-12-3: Application For Sign
5-12-4: General Requirements For Advertising Signs
5-12-5: Special Restrictions For Signs By Zones
5-12-6: Sign Setbacks
5-12-7: Street Trees
5-12-8: Nonconforming Signs
5-12-9: Violations
5-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
welfare and safety by regulating existing and proposed outdoor advertising,
outdoor advertising signs and outdoor signs of all types. It is intended to
protect property values, create a more attractive economic and business
climate, enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community and
preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas. It is further
intended to reduce sign or advertising distractions and obstructions that may
contribute to traffic accidents, reduce hazards that may be caused by signs
overhanging or projecting over public rights of way, provide more open space,
curb the deterioration of the natural environment and enhance community
development. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADJACENT PROPERTY: Real property sharing one common boundary with another
parcel of real property. Public roads separating parcels of real property shall
be disregarded in determining whether property is "adjacent property".
ADVERTISING DEVICE: Any floating, billowing, turning or oscillating device; any
colored, shiny, reflective material, or any light or other contrivance, except
a sign used to attract attention.
ADVERTISING DISPLAY: Any device, contrivance, object or structure other than a
sign used to attract attention.
AREA OF SIGN: Any back area, where defined, of a sign. Contrasting supports are
not included. Painted signs on a wall will be measured from the edge of the
background color, if used, or the area enclosed by straight lines where no
background is defined.
AWNING: Any shelter of decorative dimensional shape extending from the exterior
surface of the building, constructed as a supporting framework, covered with
nonrigid materials.
AWNING SIGN: Letters, numbers or logos applied to any awning.
BUILDING SIGN: Any sign attached directly to a building.
CANOPY SIGN: A sign not attached directly to a building, but attached by means
of a separate structure to a building.
EAVE LINE: The outside of the fascia or rafter tails or the outside of the
bottom of a mansard roof fascia.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign not attached to any building, directly or by means of
a separate structure.
HEIGHT: The distance between the top of a sign and the surface of the nearest
adjacent public road.
NAMEPLATE: A sign naming the occupant, the occupant's occupation and the
address.
POLITICAL SIGN: Any sign dealing with a candidate for elected office or an
issue that will be presented to the public on a lawful election ballot.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign which is attached to a building and has a surface
which extends more than one foot (1') away from the exterior of a building.
PROPERTY OWNER: The owner of the real property upon which a sign is located.
REALTY SIGN: A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of property
upon which it is located, and the identification of the company and/or person
handling the transaction; it includes "For Sale By Owner" signs.
ROADS: A public thoroughfare; multiple road frontages require two (2) different
streets with a frontage of at least fifty feet (50') each on each road.
SIGN: A visual device of writing or images installed for the purpose of
attracting or informing people. A "sign" shall not mean letters six inches (6")
or less in height on windows or glass doors, nor shall it include manufactured
letters indicating the name or nature of the business applied to the surface of
a building in which the business is being conducted.
SINGLE FACE SIGN: A sign attached parallel to a building wall, projecting no
more than eighteen inches (18") from the building wall, and having writing or
images only on the one surface of the sign facing away from the building wall.
SPECIAL EVENT: Sales, sale promotions, community events, holidays and similar
functions.
STREET TREE: Any tree, the trunk of which is located in any portion of the
right of way of any public road or street within the city of Wendell. (Ord.
431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-12-3: APPLICATION FOR SIGN:
Every person proposing to erect a sign owned or leased by them shall make
application to the city building department for a sign permit. The application
shall state the size and weight of the sign, the distance it is to project from
a building and the details of its supports providing attachment to a building
or the ground. The building official shall issue a permit for the sign and it
shall be unlawful to erect or place a sign without such a permit. Political
signs must be removed within ten (10) days after the election to which they
pertain. A nonrefundable fee to be set by resolution of the city council shall
accompany every application for a sign. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-12-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   (A)   Any illuminated advertising device or advertising display shall emit a
light of constant intensity, and no sign shall be illuminated by or contain
flashing, intermittent, rotating or moving light or lights. In no event shall
such an illuminated sign or device be placed or directed to permit the beams
and illumination therefrom to be directed or beamed upon a public thoroughfare,
highway, sidewalk or adjacent premises to cause glare or reflection that may
constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance.
   (B)   No sign shall employ any parts or elements which revolve, rotate,
whirl, spin or otherwise make use of motion to attract attention; provided,
however, subsection (A) of this section and this subsection shall not apply to
any sign which conveys messages by moving letters or numbers, produced by
electronic means. Any such sign may be allowed by special use permit, utilizing
the procedures for a special use permit set forth in section
5-1-9 of this title. In no case shall the message area of any such sign for
which a special use permit is issued exceed a total of sixty (60) square feet.
   (C)   No sign of any classification shall be installed, erected or attached
in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape or any door or window giving
accesses to any fire escape.
   (D)   All signs shall be secured in such a fashion as to prevent unsafe
movement or vibration in conformance with the most recent edition of the
building code adopted by the city.
   (E)   No sign shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs. Signs directing and guiding traffic or containing traffic markings
located on private property but bearing no advertising matter shall be
permitted.
   (F)   No sign shall be above the top roofline of the building on which it is
placed.
   (G)   The electrical features of any sign and the installation thereof shall
have been inspected by the state electrical inspector and evidence of the
permit provided to the city building official prior to the operation of the
sign.
   (H)   For industrial and commercial properties, of a depth of more than two
hundred feet (200'), one and one-half (11/2) square feet of total sign area per
linear foot of street frontage will be allowed by special use permit. More than
two (2) freestanding signs per road frontage may be allowed by special use
permit as long as there is a minimum distance of one hundred feet (100')
between signs.
   (I)   The maximum height of any freestanding sign, except for signs located
in the commercial and industrial zones, shall be thirty five feet (35').
   (J)   Building signs are allowed on each building face not to exceed three
(3) square feet per linear foot of building width. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-12-5: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS FOR SIGNS BY ZONES:
   (A)   R Zone: No signs shall be permitted in the R zone, except for
political signs and one realty sign, which sign must be located on the property
which is for sale, lease or rent and which may not exceed a total of six (6)
square feet in area.
   (B)   R Zone: Apartments, condominiums, townhouses, churches, nursing homes
and public buildings may have one sign facing each adjoining street. Signs
shall be limited to thirty two (32) square feet unless mounted on a building
and shall be limited to a maximum of six feet (6') in height. Signs must be at
least fifteen feet (15') from any adjacent property.
   (C)   Industrial/Commercial Zone:
      1.   Each property may have one freestanding sign facing each adjacent
road of not over two hundred (200) square feet and not over thirty five feet
(35') in height. Freestanding signs must be at least ten feet (10') from any
adjacent property.
      2.   Each property may have one single faced building sign facing each
adjacent street frontage. The area of the building sign may not exceed three
(3) square feet per linear foot of the side of the building facing the street
frontage.
      3.   Projecting signs are permitted only in this zoning district. Each
building may have one projecting sign for each adjacent street. Signs are
limited to eight (8) square feet and may not project more than four feet (4')
from the building nor closer than two feet (2') from the curb. The bottom of
any projecting sign must be at least eight feet (8') above the ground.
Projecting signs, which are used in historical restorations, may exceed these
standards by special use permit. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-
15-2018)
5-12-6: SIGN SETBACKS:
Freestanding signs must meet all setbacks for structures required in each
zoning district; provided, however, that a realty sign or sign or bulletin
board allowed at a place of worship, library, social club or fraternal society,
shall be set back a minimum distance of ten feet (10') from the boundaries of
any established public right of way or alley. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-12-7: STREET TREES:
In order to provide for business identification while also providing the public
benefits of street trees, the design and placement of a freestanding sign shall
consider the siting of existing or approved street trees, and shall comply with
the allowed and proper pruning techniques of the mayor. Sign height may not be
limited by existing street trees, nor shall street trees be illegally topped or
pruned in order to improve the visibility of a sign. In cases where a property
owner desires to maximize the visibility of its sign, and where a prior
approval has been issued by the city for a tree type and location, then these
trees may be removed or replaced on site; provided, that an equal or greater
amount of, or potential for, a street tree is provided. Such proposed changes
shall include a review and recommendation by the mayor. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-12-8: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Whenever a business, person, enterprise or institution for which existing
signage does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, seeks to
structurally alter or enlarge an existing sign, or erect or install a new sign,
the provisions of this section shall apply as follows:
   (A)   The alteration, enlargement, installation or erection of signage shall
not increase the degree of nonconformity.
   (B)   If the value of structural alterations to a nonconforming sign equals
or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the value of the sign, as determined by
the building official, the sign shall be made to conform to all provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Enlargement, installation or erection of conforming signage shall be
accompanied by a reduction in the degree of nonconformity for other signage
existing on the premises. This reduction in nonconformity can be accomplished
by a reduction in size, removal, relocation, or a combination of reduction,
removal and relocation. The total cost of reduction, removal or relocation of
nonconforming signage shall equal, as nearly as is practical, seventy five
percent (75%) of the value of new conforming signage, or the cost necessary to
bring all signage on the premises into conformance with this chapter, whichever
is the lesser requirement.
   (D)   The provisions of subsections (B) and (C) of this section do not apply
to temporary signs or to illegal signs. Temporary signs that do not comply with
the requirements of this title shall be removed within ninety (90) days after
notification of the sign's nonconformity. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-12-9: VIOLATIONS:
Should any sign not be applied for or installed, erected, constructed,
maintained or removed in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, the
building official shall notify, in writing, the owner or lessee of such sign to
apply for, alter, maintain or remove the sign. If the owner or lessee of any
such sign fails to apply for, alter, maintain or remove the sign in accordance
with the notice from the building official within ten (10) days of the receipt
of the written notice, the failure to comply with such notice shall be deemed a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
CHAPTER 13
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-13-1: Regulations
5-13-1: REGULATIONS:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the district use and area regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title:
   (A)   Fire Escapes: Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside
stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers, projecting into a rear yard
not more than five feet (5'), are permitted.
   (B)   Required Yard Space: Each part of a required yard shall be open to the
sky, unobstructed by other buildings or structures; however, a stoop may extend
not more than eight feet (8') into the required front yard. A paved terrace may
project into a front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet (10'). Only the
front wall of the building shall support such stoop or terrace.
   (C)   Converted Single-Family Dwellings: All single-family dwellings
converted to multiple-family dwellings must conform to the following:
      1.   No existing single-family dwelling may be so converted if it
contains less than one thousand (1,000) square feet of livable floor area per
individual household.
      2.   No dwelling unit shall contain less than five hundred (500) square
feet of livable floor area per individual household.
   (D)   Setback Lines: Where a uniform setback line has been established or
observed on one side of a street, no building shall be erected or structurally
altered beyond such setback line.
   (E)   Front Yard Exceptions: In areas where some lots are developed with a
front yard that is less than a minimum required for the district by this title
or where some lots have been developed with a front yard greater than required
by this title, the following rule shall apply: Any new building or addition in
front thereof shall not be closer to the street right of way than the average
of the front yard of the first building on each side within a distance of two
hundred feet (200') measured from building to building, except as follows:
      1.   Buildings located entirely on the rear half of a lot shall not be
counted.
      2.   If no building exists on one side of a lot within two hundred feet
(200') of the lot in question, the minimum front yard shall be the same as the
building on the other side.
   (F)   Through Lots: At each end of a through lot, there shall be a front
yard of the depth required by this title for the district in which each street
frontage is located, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Only one front yard need be provided on those through lots which
abut on an expressway or major arterial as shown on the circulation element of
the general plan or when the rights to vehicular ingress and egress to one of
the streets has been abandoned or prohibited.
      2.   When only one front yard is required on a through lot as provided
herein, a rear yard shall replace the normally required second front yard.
   (G)   Structures Permitted Above Height Limit: The building height
limitations of this title shall be modified as follows:
      1.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, bell towers, penthouses, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts,
tanks, water towers, ornamental towers and spires, radio or television towers
or necessary mechanical appurtenances, may be erected to a height above that
allowed in the district in which they are located, if approved by the city
council.
      2.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals,
sanitariums, schools or churches, when permitted in a district, may be erected
to a height exceeding the height allowed in the district where they are located
if approved by the city council.
   (H)   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work may only be
permitted for a period of one year through the application and approval of a
special use permit.
   (I)   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Not more than two (2)
inoperable and unregistered vehicles of any kind or type, excluding farm
implements, shall be parked or stored on any agricultural or residential
property other than in a completely enclosed building or carport, behind a
sight obscuring enclosure or fence or a legally licensed junkyard.
   (J)   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office and Kennel: Will be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence including motels
and hotels, except for an owner’s residence. The city may modify these
requirements if the animals are housed in soundproof structures that screen
them from view of the abutting residential property.
   (K)   Meatpacking, Processing Plant And Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   Will be located not less than one thousand (1000) feet from any
residence, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor and noise.
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the Health Authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
   (L)   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases Or Corrosive Materials,
Aboveground And For Resale:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a residence,
motel or hotel, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will be erected with the written approval of the fire authority
having jurisdiction.
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities meeting the approval of the fire authority.
   (M)   Chemicals, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing: Will
have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and disposal as approved
in writing by the fire authority having jurisdiction.
   (N)   Contractor's Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will have a vision screening fence around areas utilized for storage
equipment and demolition material.
   (O)   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed within the property lines with landscaping and
fencing, except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties.
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence.
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles.
      4.   Will avoid the direction of night lighting off the property lines.
   (P)   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging, Or Other Earthmoving
Activities:
      1.   Will take place in such a manner as to result in the smallest amount
of bare ground exposed for the shortest time feasible.
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch.
      3.   Will use diversions, silting basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment.
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions.
      5.   Will not result in damage to a floodway, channel or natural
drainageway.
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure.
      7.   Will not have below grade excavation, except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way.
      8.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
   (Q)   Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits And Other Natural
Resources Of Commercial Value:
      1.   A valid permit and license to develop shall be obtained from the
proper state and federal agencies and a copy of an approved reclamation plan
shall be filed with the city and all other appropriate agencies.
      2.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing a special use permit with due consideration given to what is
suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
      3.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures,
except property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring, or
weighing of salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed from the
property.
      4.   Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard.
   (R)   Home Occupations:
      1.   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in such occupation.
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conducting of the home occupation.
      3.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area, indirectly
illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building.
      4.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation,
and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this title and shall
not be located in a required front yard.
      5.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
   (S)   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   (T)   Wrecking Yard And Junkyard:
      1.   A sight obscuring enclosure meeting the terms of this title shall be
constructed parallel to and ten feet (10') back of the right of way line of any
public street or highway for any auto wrecking yard and salvage yard. Said
fence shall be constructed along the entire premises devoted to such auto
wrecking or salvage yard, and shall be constructed within one year from the
effective date hereof.
      2.   Materials used and details of construction must be approved by the
planning commission. The decision of the planning commission shall be guided by
the need to preserve and protect the scenic and aesthetic values of the
surrounding area and to protect property value.
      3.   Will not store automobile, junk or salvage material that is visible
from any other property.
      4.   Will not store automobile or junk in a manner that exceeds the
height of the fence.
      5.   Will have such landscaping that is appropriate with the surrounding
area.
   (U)   Landfill, Incinerators, Compost Operators, And Other Solid Waste
Disposal Facilities: The planning commission may grant a special use permit for
the construction of a landfill, recycling center, incinerator, commercial
composting operation, liquid waste land farm, or any other type of solid waste
disposal or recycling operation subject to the following conditions:
      1.   No such permit shall be granted in the residential zone.
      2.   Such operations shall obtain a permit from the city council.
      3.   Such operations shall be required to establish to the city council's
satisfaction that they intend to and are financially capable of complying with
all state, federal and local laws, ordinances and regulations governing the
conduct of such operations.
      4.   Such operations shall be required to plan for, install and maintain
such safeguards and measures as the city council shall require to ensure that
groundwater quality and air quality are preserved and environmental hazards and
nuisances and unsightly areas are not created by the operation.
      5.   Such operations that involve the landfilling of solid waste shall be
required to install a composite liner system and a leachate collection system.
(Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 492, 4-16-2009)
CHAPTER 14
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
5-14-1: Manufactured Home Parks
5-14-2: Recreational Vehicle Parks
5-14-1: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
Parks shall be allowed by special use permit, but only when such parks are
constructed and maintained in accordance with the following standards and
conditions:
   (A)   Application: Development of a manufactured/mobile home park shall
require application to the planning commission for a permit. The application
for said permit shall be accompanied by twelve (12) copies of the plot plan of
the proposed park. All mapped data for the same plot plan shall be drawn at the
same standard engineering scale of one inch (1"), representing one hundred feet
(100'). The plot plan shall contain all of the following information:
      1.   The full name and address of the applicants, as well as the name and
address of the individual or company by whom the plan was prepared;
      2.   Location and legal description of the tract of land certified by an
Idaho registered land surveyor;
      3.   Name of the manufactured/mobile home park;
      4.   Vicinity map, showing the relationship of the manufactured/mobile
home park to adjacent properties;
      5.   Location and width of accessways;
      6.   Street layout, including location, width and proposed names;
      7.   Location and width of walkways, alleys, crosswalks and easements;
      8.   Proposed and existing facilities in the park for water supply,
sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection;
      9.   Building plans and specifications for existing buildings and
facilities shall be included in the plot plan;
      10.   Location and type of landscaping plantings, fences, walls or other
forms of landscaping;
      11.   Enlarged plot plan of typical manufactured/mobile home space,
showing location of the land, patio, storage space, parking, sidewalk, utility
connections and landscaping;
      12.   Further information required:
         (a)   The date on which such plot plans were prepared;
         (b)   An arrow indicating north;
         (c)   All manufactured/mobile home sites shall be properly indicated
by location and size and numbered on the plot plans;
         (d)   Complete information regarding storm sewers and storm water;
         (e)   Contour lines at five foot (5') intervals;
         (f)   Grades of driveways; and
         (g)   Such other information as required as a result of the preplan
conference or by the planning commission.
   (B)   Manufactured/Mobile Home Site Requirements: Each manufactured/mobile
home site shall be plainly marked and numbered for identification.
   (C)   Manufactured/Mobile Home Site Area: A maximum density of twelve (12)
units per acre. Minimum lot size for units of less than sixty one feet (61'),
or more, in length, a minimum of four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet
shall be required.
   (D)   Site Width: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall have a minimum
width of not less than forty five feet (45').
   (E)   Occupancy: Not more than one single-family manufactured/mobile home
shall be placed on a manufactured/mobile home site.
   (F)   Site Arrangement: Manufactured/mobile home sites shall be arranged in
such a way that promotes the clustering of individual sites or provides for the
angle arrangement of lots.
   (G)   Setback From Public Streets: All structures and manufactured/mobile
homes shall be set back twenty feet (20') from any public street right-of-way.
   (H)   Yard Requirements: No manufactured/mobile home shall be located closer
than twenty feet (20') to another manufactured/mobile home, building or
structure. In addition, any manufactured/mobile home, building or structure, or
part thereof, shall conform to the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: In no case shall a front yard be not less than ten feet
(10').
      2.   Side Yard: Located on a corner of a manufactured/mobile home park
street in which case a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') shall be
required.
      3.   Rear Yard: A manufactured/mobile home shall have a rear yard of not
less than ten feet (10') to the rear property line.
   (I)   Projection Into Required Yard: The following structures may be erected
or projected into any required yard:
      1.   Manufactured/mobile home hitches;
      2.   Necessary appurtenances for utility services; and
      3.   Driveways and accessways to parking facility.
   (J)   Storage Sheds Or Parking Structures: Individual storage sheds,
stairways, awnings or parking structures shall be permitted on individual
manufactured/mobile home sites, provided required setbacks are met.
   (K)   Manufactured/Mobile Home Site Coverage: The manufactured/mobile home
and accessory structures shall not cover more than seventy five percent (75%)
of the area of the manufactured/mobile home site.
   (L)   Skirting: Skirting shall be provided along all sides of the
manufactured/mobile home.
   (M)   Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Off Street Parking: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall have
thereon a space suitable for providing automobile parking for at least two (2)
automobiles, which space shall be either paved, graveled or covered with other
suitable aggregate and with a stable base.
      2.   Restrictions: There shall be no permanent or overnight parking of
motor vehicles, trailers, boats, campers or other conveyances on streets within
such manufactured/mobile home park. No wrecked, junked or inoperative
automobiles shall be parked other than in a designated screened common storage
area within such manufactured/mobile home park.
      3.   Recreation And Service Areas: Recreation and service areas shall
have sufficient off street parking facilities surfaced as herein provided to
accommodate one automobile for every ten (10) manufactured/mobile home sites.
   (N)   Landscaping: All open areas, except driveways, parking areas,
walkways, utility areas, improved decks, patios or porches shall be maintained
with landscaping. Plans for such landscaping shall be submitted with the
development plans at time of application for permit.
   (O)   Trash Storage: Covered fireproof containers for trash storage shall be
provided. They shall be placed so as to be concealed from the street and easily
accessible to the mobile home sites. The same shall be emptied not less than
weekly. The operator of such manufactured/mobile home park shall not permit or
allow any open accumulation of trash or garbage, which shall be unsightly or
constitute a health or safety hazard. Further, trash storage areas may not be
located closer than thirty feet (30') from a manufactured/mobile home.
   (P)   Streets: Manufactured/mobile home park streets shall be provided in
such a pattern as to provide convenient traffic circulation within the park.
Said streets shall be constructed to the following standards:
      1.   All streets shall interconnect and there shall be no dead end
streets, unless a cul-de-sac is provided with a radius of not less than fifty
feet (50');
      2.   All manufactured/mobile home park streets shall have a width of not
less than forty feet (40'), including curbs;
      3.   All streets to be constructed shall provide proper surface drainage
provided for on site;
      4.   Manufactured/mobile home park streets shall be paved, except where
other types of road construction may be recommended by the planning commission
to the city council;
      5.   Manufactured/mobile home park streets shall be lighted to a minimum
light level of two (2) foot-candles per square foot of street area.
   (Q)   Mailboxes Provided: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall be
equipped with a receptacle for mail deliveries in accordance with the standards
recommended by the local postmaster.
   (R)   Telephone: The manufactured/mobile home park may contain at least one
public telephone for the use of park residents.
   (S)   Recreation Areas: A central recreation area shall be established in
each manufactured/mobile home park created, pursuant to the provisions of this
title. The size of such area shall be at least two hundred (200) square feet
per manufactured/mobile home site. The recreation area may contain community
clubhouses, swimming pools, shuffleboard courts and similar facilities. Such
recreation facilities may be decentralized in accordance with the principles of
good planning; provided, that the total recreation area meets the above stated
minimum size.
   (T)   Buffering Requirements: Manufactured/mobile home parks should be
buffered from other land use zones.
   (U)   Storage Areas: Common areas used for the storage of travel trailers,
boats, storage lockers or sheds, and other such items shall be established in a
manufactured/mobile home park. Such storage areas shall be adequately screened
from public view. The size of such area shall be at least two hundred (200)
square feet per manufactured/mobile home site.
   (V)   Utilities: All utility distribution facilities, including television
antenna service lines serving individual manufactured/mobile home sites, shall
be placed underground. The owner is responsible for complying with the
requirements of this title and he shall make the necessary arrangements with
each of the serving utilities for the installation of such facilities.
Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground facilities may
be placed aboveground. Water and sewer distribution facilities shall be
installed in accordance with minimum standards established through Idaho Code,
and all state and local regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Each
manufactured/mobile home site must be served with water, electricity and
sanitary facilities as above provided.
   (W)   Permit To Occupy: Prior to the occupancy of any manufactured/mobile
home park, the developer(s) shall obtain from the planning commission a permit
to occupy attesting that the aforementioned sanitary requirements of the state
or district health authority have been met.
   (X)   Transient Spaces: Not more than ten percent (10%) of the manufactured/
mobile home sites may be used for transient recreational vehicle sites. Sites
reserved for transient recreational vehicles shall be so designated on the
plans submitted with the application for the manufactured/mobile home park
permit. The site, yard and property development standards of this title shall
fully apply to sites reserved for transient recreational vehicles. Such
vehicles shall stay not more than three (3) months.
   (Y)   Expiration Or Revocation Of Permit: A permit for the development of a
manufactured/mobile home park shall become void automatically under any of the
following circumstances or conditions:
      1.   If construction has not commenced within six (6) months after the
issuance of a development permit therefor, or any extension of time granted by
the planning commission for good cause.
      2.   If construction of a manufactured/mobile home park is not completed
and a certificate of occupancy issued by the planning commission within one
year from the date of issuance of the development permit.
      3.   If the permit for the construction of a manufactured/mobile home
park expires for any other reason.
   (Z)   Recordation Procedures: After approval of the preliminary development
plan by the planning and zoning commission, a final plan shall be submitted,
containing all such information, as required by this title and the planning
commission for recordation, pursuant to the recordation procedures set forth in
this title. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-14-2: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   (A)   Definitions:
   DEPENDENT RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: One that does not have a water closet and a
bathtub or shower.
   INDEPENDENT RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: One that has a water closet and a bathtub
or shower.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
occupied recreational vehicles are located.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park designated for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing communal toilet, laundry and other
sanitary facilities necessary for the health and convenience of the trailer
occupants.
   (B)   Site Selection Criteria:
      1.   Location: The site must not be:
         (a)   Subject to flooding, fire or safety hazards;
         (b)   Exposed to chronic nuisances, such as noise, smoke, fumes and
odors.
   The site should be bounded on at least one side by a public street or
highway.
      2.   Topography: The topography must be favorable to good site drainage,
minimum grading, recreational vehicle placement and ease of maintenance.
Initial site grades exceeding eight percent (8%), or rock formations close to
the surface, are likely to cause high development costs.
      3.   Availability Of Utilities: The site must be readily accessible to
public utilities, including water, sewerage and electricity.
      4.   Necessary Land Area: The area of the recreational vehicle park must
be sufficient in size to accommodate:
         (a)   The number of recreational vehicle spaces.
         (b)   Roads and parking areas.
         (c)   Service areas, buildings and playgrounds.
         (d)   On site utilities where public utilities are not available.
   (C)   Site Improvements Required: The physical improvements of the site must
be arranged to provide:
      1.   A convenient means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each
recreational vehicle space, parking areas and accessory buildings;
      2.   An adequate supply of potable water;
      3.   A safe method of sewage disposal;
      4.   Electrical service for lighting and power; and
      5.   Diversion of surface water away from buildings, recreational vehicle
spaces, service and recreational areas, and its disposal from the site.
   (D)   Site Planning; Requirements Generally: A plan of the proposed
recreational vehicle park must be developed for approval of the county,
indicating the layout of recreational vehicle spaces, roads, walks, service
buildings, service areas, utilities and necessary grading.
   Determination must be made in the initial planning stage on the number of
dependent and independent recreational vehicles to be accommodated.
   (E)   Site Planning; Recreational Vehicle Space Sizes: Each recreational
vehicle space must be not less than one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250)
square feet in area and should be at least twenty five feet (25') wide.
   (F)   Site Planning; Spacing Between Recreational Vehicles And Buildings:
The minimum spacing between recreational vehicles and between recreational
vehicles and buildings must be: side to side spacing, fifteen feet (15'); end
to end spacing, ten feet (10'). (Space between end of trailer bodies, not
chassis.)
   No recreational vehicle should be located closer than twenty five feet (25')
from the right-of-way line of a main highway, or ten feet (10') from the
recreational vehicle park property line.
   (G)   Site Planning; Roads, Walks And Parking Areas:
      1.   General Circulation: Safety and convenience must be a major
consideration in the layout of roads, walks, and parking areas within the
recreational vehicle park. All roads must be continuous.
      2.   Servicing: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment,
delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, and for other necessary
services must be provided. Minimum service distances as required by local
regulations or accepted practice must control.
      3.   Width Of Roads And Parking Areas: Width of roads and parking areas
shall be as follows: Main access roads, excluding parking, shall be two (2)
lanes or twenty feet (20').
      4.   Parking Area: The same number of motor vehicle parking spaces must
be provided as the number of recreational vehicle spaces. These must be
provided in special parking areas.
      5.   Walks: The recreational vehicle park walk system must include a walk
from the entrance of each recreational vehicle to service facilities.
      6.   Width Of Walks:
         (a)   Public walks: (minimum) four feet (4');
         (b)   Entrance walks (from public walk to trailer door): three feet
(3').
   (H)   Site Planning; Service Building Requirements: Each recreational
vehicle park must be provided with one or more service buildings containing the
requisite number of plumbing fixtures and other service equipment. The service
buildings must conform in general to the following requirements:
      1.   Location: The building should be located not more than two hundred
feet (200') from any dependent recreational vehicle space.
      2.   Construction: The materials and methods used in the construction of
service buildings must conform to adopted building codes for buildings of this
nature. It must have an interior finish that is moisture resistant and can be
easily cleaned. All rooms of service buildings must be ventilated and all
exterior openings provided with screens.
      3.   Facilities: Separate men's and women's toilet rooms must be provided
and distinctly marked. A sound resistant wall must separate these rooms. A
vestibule or screen wall must be provided to prevent direct view into the
toilet rooms when exterior doors are open.
         (a)   Plumbing Fixtures: Every recreational vehicle park must provide
adequate toilet and laundry facilities. In no instance should there be less
than one laundry unit (laundry tray or washing machine), one water closet, one
lavatory and one shower for women; and one water closet, one lavatory and one
shower for men.
         (b)   Water Closet: One water closet must be provided for each sex for
every ten (10) additional dependent recreational vehicles. Urinals for men may
be substituted for one-third (1/3) of these water closets.
         (c)   Lavatory; Laundry Unit: One lavatory must be provided for each
sex for every ten (10) additional dependent recreational vehicles; and one
shower or bathtub for each sex for every twenty (20) additional dependent
coaches. A laundry unit must be provided for every twenty (20) additional
recreational vehicle spaces.
         (d)   Separate Compartments: All water closets and bathtubs or showers
for women, and all water closets and bathtubs for men must be located in
separate compartments, with self-closing doors. Individual shower stalls must
be approximately three feet by three feet (3' x 3'). Showers for women must
have a dressing compartment with stool or bench. The room containing the
laundry units must be separated from the toilet rooms, and have an exterior
entrance only.
         (e)   Plumbing: All plumbing installations shall conform to the local
plumbing code.
         (f)   Electrical: All electrical installations shall conform to the
state electrical code.
         (g)   Heating: Heating facilities capable of maintaining a temperature
of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) in cold weather should be provided.
         (h)   Hot Water: Facilities should provide for the continuous supply
of three (3) to five (5) gallons of hot water per recreational vehicle space.
Hot water at a temperature of about one hundred eighty degrees Fahrenheit
(180°F) should be provided for clothes washing equipment.
   (I)   Site Planning; Laundry Drying Facilities: Mechanical laundry drying
equipment must be provided. Laundry drying machines must be located in service
buildings.
   (J)   Refuse Collection: Refuse must be stored in flytight and rodentproof
containers. Each coach space will require from four (4) to six (6) gallons of
refuse storage capacity per day. Refuse container stations, where used, should
be located a maximum of two hundred feet (200') from any trailer coach space
and preferably not more than one hundred fifty feet (150').
   (K)   Site Planning; Recreational Areas: At least one hundred (100) square
feet per recreational vehicle space must be made available in one or more areas
for recreational uses. These areas should be located so as to be free of
traffic hazards.
   (L)   Site Engineering; Requirements Generally: Grading and drainage must be
performed so that water will drain away from recreational vehicle spaces,
buildings, service and recreational areas, for storage on the site in a manner
that will provide reasonable freedom from erosion. Walks, driveways and
retaining walls must be so constructed as not to interfere with drainage.
   (M)   Site Engineering; Slope And Grading Requirements: Requirements for
slopes of recreational vehicle spaces, roads, walks and service areas are as
follows:
      1.   Recreational vehicle spaces must be graded toward abutting roadway
to prevent surface water draining across adjacent coach spaces. Grading under
recreational vehicles must be provided to prevent puddling of water.
      2.   Where swales for the carriage of storm water are needed between the
recreational vehicle space and the roadway, they must be of a shallow type,
generally not to exceed eight inches (8") in depth, to permit the parking of
the trailer without damage to the undercarriage.
      3.   The following minimum and maximum slope values will usually give
satisfactory results:
 
                                          Minimum Percent Maximum Percent
Roads                                     0.50
Walks                                     0.50            1.0
Recreation areas and laundry drying yards 0.50
Sodded and planted areas                  1.00            1.07
Grade of space                            0.50
 
   (N)   Site Engineering; Construction Requirements: Requirements for
construction of roads, parking areas, walks and service areas are as follows:
      1.   Roads And Parking Areas: Roads must be all weather construction.
Roads must be crowned at center to shed water to drainage facilities.
      2.   Walks: Walks must be constructed of concrete, asphalt, gravel, fine
stone, cinders or other materials providing a stable footing. Stepping stones
may be used from main walks to recreational vehicles.
      3.   Recreation Areas And Laundry Drying Yards: Surfacing may be natural
ground cover, sand-clay or other suitable local materials. (Ord. 431, 10-24-
2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
CHAPTER 15
BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-15-1: Purpose
5-15-2: Definitions
5-15-3: General Requirements
5-15-4:    Residential Standards
5-15-5:    Driveway Standards
5-15-6:    Nonconforming Buildings
5-15-7:    Violations
5-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
welfare and safety by regulating proposed buildings in residential zones and
establishing an official frost depth of twenty four inches (24") within the
jurisdiction. It is intended to protect property values, create a more
attractive economic climate and enhance and protect the physical appearance of
the community and preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas.
It is further intended to reduce the deterioration of the natural environment
and enhance community development. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADJACENT PROPERTY: Real property sharing one common boundary with another
parcel of real property. Public roads separating parcels of real property shall
be disregarded in determining whether property is "adjacent property".
APPROVED (As To Materials And Type Of Construction): Refers to approval by the
building official as the result of investigation and tests conducted by the
building official, or by reason of accepted principles or tests by recognized
authorities, technical or scientific organizations.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
occupancy.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the adoption of this title, or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: A building used temporarily for the storage of
construction materials and equipment incidental and necessary to on site
permitted construction of utilities, or other community facilities, or used
temporarily in conjunction with the sale of property within a subdivision under
construction.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time this title became effective, which was designed, erected
or structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the zoning
regulations of the district in which it is located.
PERSON: A natural person, heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, and also
includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their successors or
assigns, or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
RENOVATION: Interior or exterior remodeling of a structure, other than ordinary
repair.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of any existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance.
SHALL: As used in this title, is mandatory.
WEATHER EXPOSED SURFACES: All surfaces of walls, ceilings, floors, roofs,
soffits and similar surfaces exposed to the weather. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002)
5-15-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Any person or persons building in a residential zone shall be required
to have the weather exposed surfaces of the building to be of similar
appearance and finish as other buildings in the immediate neighborhood or as
approved by the building official.
   (B)   All commercial construction shall have plans prepared by a registered
design professional and bear the stamp and signature of same design
professional (structural engineer or architect) as required by the building
official. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-15-4: RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS:
   (A)   Residential Landscaping: It is the intent of this section to protect
and preserve the appearance, character, and value of the surrounding
neighborhoods. Residential development should compliment the visual character
of the landscape and not cause visual deterioration or destruction so as to be
an asset to the community.
      1.   Minimum requirements:
         a.   All residential building permit applications will have an
attached landscaping plan to the application, and no permit shall be issued
without the Planning and Zoning Commission or their designated representatives
approval of the attached landscaping plan.
         b.   Landscaped, landscaping or landscaped area shall mean that area
of land covered with at a minimum seventy-five percent (75%) of living
vegetative which may include but not limited to lawn grass, ground cover,
trees, shrubs, vegetables, and flowers.
         c.   The landscaping plan may also include ornamental landscaping
materials to include but are not limited to round/irregular rock boulders,
landscape bark, and mulch, including rubber mulch.
         d.   All commercial building permit applications in conjunction with a
planned unit development will be required to follow all the requirements of
this chapter prior to a building permit being issued.
         e.   All landscaping in conjunction with an approved landscaping plan
shall be completed prior to or within six (6) months of construction
completion. (Ord. 553-2023, 9-7-2023)
5-15-5: DRIVEWAY STANDARDS:
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to provide requirements for the
installation and maintenance of driveway s in a residential zone.
      1.   Minimum Requirements:
         a.   All residential building permit applications will be required to
include driveway dimensions and specifications in the plans in conformance with
the regulation in this chapter.
         b.   Residential use driveway approaches shall not exceed twelve (12')
feet in width for a single use drive or twenty ( 24'1 feet wide for a double
use drive. Joint use drives between two (2) separate properties to serve multi-
family residences will be allowed: however, the total width shall not exceed
forty (40') feet.
         c.   Driveway s will extend, in length to the property line, and
remain out of all easements.
         d.   Driveways shall be constructed with a surface consisting of
concrete, asphalt, pavers, or gravel: furthermore, the driveway shall be
constructed with an appropriate grade to promote water runoff.
          e.   Residential use driveway s shall be maintained free of weeds and
replaced, or repaired at expense of the owner.
         f.   All commercial building permit applications in conjunction with a
planned unit development will be required to follow all the requirements of
this chapter prior to a building permit being issued. (Ord. 553-2023, 9-7-2023)
5-15-6: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS:
Whenever a person or persons seeks to structurally alter or remodel an existing
nonconforming building, the provisions of this section shall conform with
chapter 11 of this title except as listed below:
The provisions of subsections
5-11-1(A) and (B) of this title do not apply to temporary buildings or to
accessory buildings under one hundred twenty (120) square feet for commercial
and two hundred (200) square feet for residential uses. (Ord. 553-2023, 9-7-
2023)
5-15-7: VIOLATIONS: 
Should any building not be applied for or constructed in violation of any of
the terms of this chapter, the building official shall notify. in writing, the
owner or lessee of such building to apply for, alter or remove the building or
addition. If the owner of lessee of any such building fails to apply for, alter
or remove the building, or addition in accordance with the notice from the
building official within ten (10) days of receipt of the written notice, the
failure to comply with such notice shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 553-2023, 9-7-
2023)
CHAPTER 16
VARIANCES AND APPEALS
SECTION:
5-16-1: Council Powers
5-16-2: Procedure, Application for Variance/Appeals
5-16-3: Variances Granted When
5-16-1: COUNCIL POWERS:
The city council shall have the following authority to vary the application and
terms of this title subject to the laws of the state and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards in harmony with the purpose and intent of this title
with the public interest and the most appropriate development of the
neighborhood:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official charged with
enforcement of the regulations established by this title; and
   (B)   To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, variances from the terms
of this title, where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or
steepness of slope or other physical condition applying to a lot or building,
the strict application of any regulation enacted herein would result in an
exceptional difficulty or unnecessary hardship which would deprive the owner of
the reasonable use of the land or building involved. Such relief may be
granted, provided it does not substantially impair the intent and purposes of
this title, and provided no variance shall authorize any use in a zoning
district other than a use specifically permitted in such zoning district. (Ord.
431, 10-24-2002)
5-16-2: PROCEDURE, APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE/APPEALS:
   (A)   Public Hearing; Notice; Conditions: The city council shall hold a
public hearing on all applications for appeals, reviews and variances with the
following special conditions required:
      1.   For application for variances to this title, the city council shall
mail a written notice of said hearing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date to the applicant and to owners of property adjacent to the
property in question. Failure to mail such notice to every property owner due
to clerical omissions shall not affect the validity of any hearing or
determination of the city council.
      2.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing date, notice
of the time and place of such hearing shall be given by at least one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
   (B)   Fee: For applications for variances to this title, the applicant shall
be charged a fee to cover the cost of advertising and processing.
   (C)   Validity Of Permit: Unless otherwise stated in the city council
minutes, all variance permits shall be issued and work shall commence within
six (6) months from the date that such variance is granted; otherwise, the
variance permit shall no longer be considered valid. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002;
amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-16-3: VARIANCES GRANTED WHEN:
The planning commission shall consider variances to the terms of this title
which will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title will result
in unnecessary hardship and under such conditions that the spirit of this title
shall be observed and substantial justice done. A variance shall not be
considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant
only upon showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and
that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. In acting upon
such variance, the planning commission shall make full investigation and shall
only recommend granting a variance upon finding that the following are true:
   (A)   The granting of the variance will not be in conflict with the spirit
and intent of the comprehensive plan for the city, and will not effect a change
in zoning.
   (B)   There are exceptional or extraordinary physical circumstances or
conditions, applicable to the property involved, or the intended use thereof
causing undue hardship, which do not apply generally to the property or class
of use in the district, so that a denial of the relief sought will result in:
      1.   Undue loss in value of the property;
      2.   Inability to preserve the property rights of the owner;
      3.   The prevention of reasonable enjoyment of any property right of the
owner.
   Such hardship shall be proven by the owner.
   (C)   The granting of such relief will not be materially detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or injurious to the property or improvements
of other property owners, or the quiet enjoyment of such property improvements.
   (D)   The reason for a variance was not caused by the owner's, or previous
owner's, actions. (Ord. 431, 10-24-2002; amd. Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
CHAPTER 17
COMMUNICATION TOWERS
SECTION:
5-17-1: Definitions
5-17-2: State And Federal Regulations
5-17-3: Existing Communication Towers
5-17-4: Unlawful Location (Installation) Of Communication Tower Sites
5-17-5: Violations And Penalties
5-17-6: Permissible Location Of A Communication Tower Site
5-17-7: Emergency Contact Information Required
5-17-8: Communication Tower Site Application
5-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The person or department to whom the City may delegate the
building inspector duties.
CITY PROPERTY: Any lot or tract of land owned entirely by the City of Wendell,
Idaho.
COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Any equipment attached, mounted, or installed at a
communication tower site, including antennas, control boxes, cables, conduit,
power sources, and other equipment, structures, plant, and appurtenances
necessary for the purpose of servicing or operating a communication tower site.
COMMUNICATION TOWER: An elevated structure designed to support equipment used
for wireless communication for purpose of transmitting and/or receiving
commercially provided wireless internet, Wi-Fi, cellular phone and/or data
services, and/or any other form of wireless communication.
COMMUNICATION TOWER SITE: A communication tower including communication
equipment.
COMMUNICATION TOWER SITE APPLICATION: A process established so that the
building inspector can review surveys, engineered drawings, and other documents
associated with the installation of a communication tower site to ensure that
the planned installation does not conflict with any ordinances, whether now or
in the future passed by the City Council of the City of Wendell, Idaho.
HEIGHT: The distance between the top of a communication tower and the natural
grade soil at a communication tower site.
MONOPOLE TOWER: A self-supported single mast hollow steel pipe tower which
utilizes a single foundation at its base that takes the vertical, horizontal
and most importantly, overturning load of the tower.
PERSON, FIRM OR CORPORATION: Includes a natural person, entity, firm,
partnership, association, limited liability company, joint venture, or
corporation.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any lot or tract within the City of Wendell, Idaho owned by a
person, firm, or corporation.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The surface of, and the space above and below, any publicly
dedicated street, road, highway, freeway, lane, path, public way or place,
sidewalk, alleyway, boulevard, parkway, drive, or other easement now or
hereafter held by the City or over which the City exercises any rights of
management control.
UTILITY POLE: A column or post used to support overhead power lines and various
other public utilities such as telephone wires, cables, fiber optic cable, and
related equipment such as transformers and street lights. (Ord. 532-2017, 12-7-
2017)
5-17-2: STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
This chapter does not, and is not intended to release any person, firm or
corporation from any applicable State or Federal regulations in regards to the
installation, construction, maintenance, or operation of any communication
tower site within the City of Wendell, Idaho. (Ord. 532-2017, 12-7-2017)
5-17-3: EXISTING COMMUNICATION TOWERS:
This chapter does not make unlawful any communication tower site already in
place and complying with all laws when this chapter becomes effective. (Ord.
532-2017, 12-7-2017)
5-17-4: UNLAWFUL LOCATION (INSTALLATION) OF COMMUNICATION TOWER SITES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to install,
construct, modify, erect, or cause to locate any communication tower site at
any location within the Municipal boundaries of the City of Wendell, Idaho in
such a way that conflicts with this chapter or any other City ordinances. (Ord.
532-2017, 12-7-2017)
5-17-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who commits any of the following shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for:
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (B)   Providing false information to a City official concerning a
communication tower site application under this chapter or compliance with this
chapter.
Each day or portion of a day during which any violation occurs or continues
shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 532-2017, 12-7-2017)
5-17-6: PERMISSIBLE LOCATION OF A COMMUNICATION TOWER SITE:
A communication tower site is expressly discouraged on any private property or
City property located in an area which is zoned residential. A special use
permit process may be used in the attempt to install a communication tower site
or to modify a current communication tower site in any area which is zoned
commercial or industrial as long as such communication tower site complies with
the terms and provisions of this chapter and the provisions of State and
Federal laws. (Ord. 532-2017, 12-7-2017)
5-17-7: EMERGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION REQUIRED:
Any person, firm or corporation who erects, owns, or operates a communication
tower site shall affix emergency contact information at each communication
tower site. It shall be the person, firm, or corporation's duty to maintain the
emergency contact information current at all times. (Ord. 532-2017, 12-7-2017)
5-17-8: COMMUNICATION TOWER SITE APPLICATION:
Any person, firm or corporation who desires to erect, own, operate, or modify a
communication tower site as permitted in this chapter shall first file a
special use permit application for the proposed location with the City of
Wendell. After fulfilling the requirements of the special use permit
application and upon approval of the Wendell City Council, the application will
be turned over to the City of Wendell building inspector and application must
meet current Building Code. Special use permit fees to be set by resolution.
(Ord. 532-2017, 12-7-2017)
CHAPTER 18
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-18-1: Methods Of Enforcement
5-18-2: Building Permit Required
5-18-3: Inspection
5-18-4: Criminal Liability
5-18-5: Injunction
5-18-6: Penalty
5-18-1: METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this ordinance shall be enforced by the following methods:
   (A)   Requirement of a building permit;
   (B)   Inspection and ordering removal of violations;
   (C)   Criminal liability;
   (D)   Injunction. (Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-18-2: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building shall be erected, moved or structurally altered unless a building
permit has been approved issued, and signed by an authorized representative of
the City of Wendell and the building inspector. All permits shall be in
conformance with the provisions of this ordinance and shall be valid for a
period of time not exceeding one year from the date of issue. (Ord. 534-2018,
2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 552-2023, 6- -2023)
5-18-3: INSPECTION:
The City of Wendell, building inspector or their representatives are hereby
empowered to cause any building, other structure or tract of land to be
inspected and examined, and to order in writing the remedying of any condition
found to exist therein or thereat in violation of any provisions of this
ordinance. After any such order has been served, no work shall proceed on any
building, other structure or tract of land covered by such order, except to
correct or comply with such violation. (Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord.
552-2023, 6- -2023)
5-18-4: CRIMINAL LIABILITY:
A person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in any case where:
   (A)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance exists in any
building or any other structure or on a tract of land;
   (B)   An order to remove any such violation has been served upon the owner,
general agent, lessee or tenant of the building, other structure or tract of
land (or any part thereof), or upon the architect, building, contractor or any
other person who commits or assists in any such violation; and
   (C)   Such person shall fail to comply with such order within ten days after
service thereof. (Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-18-5: INJUNCTION:
In addition to any of the foregoing remedies, the City Attorney, acting in
behalf of the City Council may maintain an action for an injunction to restrain
any violation of this title. (Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
5-18-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this title, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in accordance with Idaho State Code for each
offense, or by imprisonment in the County jail for a period of not more than
thirty (30) days, or by both such fines and imprisonment. Each day during which
the illegal erection, construction, alteration, maintenance or use continues
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 534-2018, 2-15-2018)
TITLE 6
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION DEFINITIONS, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Preamble
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Approval Of Plat
6-1-4: Permits
6-1-1: PREAMBLE:
From the effective date hereof, any subdivision and plat of any tract of land
located wholly or in part in the city or within one mile of the city limits
shall comply with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A dedicated minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
CROSSWALK: A right of way dedicated to public use which cuts across a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
CUL-DE-SAC OR DEAD END STREET: A short street having one end open to traffic
and being terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot fronting on two (2) nonintersecting streets.
EASEMENT: A grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific purposes.
IMPROVEMENTS: Change in the physical characteristics of the land within the
subdivision and/or those facilities which serve the purpose of adding to the
general usability of the land.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or
for development.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the side street line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
MASTER PLAN: A planning map of the city of Wendell, Idaho, showing the existing
zoning and street layout, together with the future zoning and street layout as
planned and proposed by the city to secure and maintain an orderly growth and
expansion program.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation
having sufficient proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided to commence
and maintain proceedings under this title.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A strip of land dedicated to the public use for foot traffic
only.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The city of Wendell, Idaho, planning and zoning
commission.
RESERVED STRIP: An area of land shown on a plat and intended to serve as access
to streets or alleys, but not intended for dedication to the public.
SHALL: Mandatory.
STREET: A right of way dedicated to the public use which provides vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties. It shall include the terms street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, drive, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place and other such terms.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street used primarily for through traffic.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street used to some extent for through traffic and to some
extent for access to abutting properties.
STREET, HALF: The dedication of a portion of the width of a street, usually
along the edge of a subdivision where the remaining portion of the street could
be dedicated in another subdivision.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A minor street parallel to and adjacent to a major
street providing access to abutting properties and protection from through
traffic.
STREET, PLUG: An area of land not intended for a building lot and not to be
dedicated to the public, lying between the end of a dedicated street or alley
and the boundary of the subdivision.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL: A street used exclusively for access to abutting
properties.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm or group who undertakes the subdividing of a
lot, tract or parcel of land for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development and including changes in street or lot lines.
SUBDIVISION: A tract of land divided into five (5) or more lots, parcels or
sites for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or
future; provided, that this definition shall not include a bona fide division
or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes, which shall mean
the division of land into lots, all of which are five (5) acres or larger, and
maintained as agricultural lands. Cities or counties may adopt their own
definition of subdivision in lieu of the above definition. (Ord. 266, 4-10-
1975)
6-1-3: APPROVAL OF PLAT:
No plat shall be recorded, or offered for recording, nor shall any land be
offered for sale with reference to such plat, until the plat has been submitted
to the planning and zoning commission and approved by the city council, which
shall ascertain, before approving it, that the plat has satisfied all the
requirements of this title. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-1-4: PERMITS:
No permits shall be issued by any administrative officer of the city for the
construction of any building or other improvements requiring a permit, upon any
land for which a plat is required by law, unless and until the requirements
hereof shall have been complied with. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
CHAPTER 2
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Preapplication
6-2-2: Preparation, Purpose, Scope
6-2-3: Information Required
6-2-4: Proposed Improvements
6-2-5: Conditional Approval Of Preliminary Plat
6-2-1: PREAPPLICATION:
   (A)   Preparation: The subdivider shall submit to the city engineer a
drawing of the area to be subdivided. The drawing shall note outside dimensions
of the property, proposed lot sizes, location and width of streets, alleys,
easement strips for utilities and other information he may have available.
   (B)   Purpose: The purpose of the "preapplication procedure" is to afford
the subdivider an opportunity to avail himself at his own expense of the advice
and assistance of the city engineer and his staff before incurring the expense
of exhaustive surveys and calculations. Thorough analysis of the problem at
this state will expedite approval of the preliminary and final plats. (Ord.
266, 4-10-1975)
6-2-2: PREPARATION, PURPOSE, SCOPE:
   (A)   Preparation: The subdivider shall submit, at his own expense, to the
planning and zoning commission, a preliminary plat, together with improvement
plans and other supplementary material.
   (B)   Purpose: The purpose of the preliminary plat is to present an early
study of the proposed subdivision to the planning and zoning commission to
receive its approval or recommendations for revision before drafting a final
plat for approval.
   (C)   Scope: The preliminary plat shall contain a vicinity map and a detail
map which shows all pertinent information to scale, in order that the planning
and zoning commission may properly review the proposed development. (Ord. 266,
4-10-1975)
6-2-3: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The preliminary plat shall include the following information:
   (A)   Vicinity map, to scale, showing the relationship to the nearest major
streets in the area.
   (B)   A detailed map which shall include the following information:
      1.   General Information:
         (a)   Name of the subdivision. This name must not duplicate or
resemble the name of another subdivision in Gooding County, and shall be
approved by the city council.
         (b)   Date, north point and scale of drawing.
         (c)   Location of the subdivision by section, township and range.
         (d)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners, subdivider
and designer of the subdivision.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         (a)   Boundary Lines: Boundary lines of the tract, distances and
approximate acreage enclosed.
         (b)   Streets: Location, name, present width, type of surfacing of all
streets, alleys and rights of way, including walks, curbs, gutters and culverts
on and abutting the tract.
         (c)   Easements: Approximate width, location and purpose of all
existing easements and abutting the tract.
         (d)   Utilities On And Abutting The Tract: Location and size of
sanitary and storm sewers, location and size of water mains, location of gas
lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles and streetlights. If water
mains and sewers are not on or abutting the tract, indicate the direction and
distance to the nearest ones.
         (e)   Watercourses: Including irrigation ditches and canals on and
abutting the property, showing the location and direction of flow.
         (f)   Existing Uses Of The Property: Including the location and use of
all existing structures to remain on the property after platting.
         (g)   Zoning: Zoning on, adjacent to, the tract. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-2-4: PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Streets: Names, location and right of way widths.
   (B)   Easements: Location, width and purpose of all easements.
   (C)   Proposed Streets: Location of official plan lines of projected streets
or highways as shown on the official master plan of the city.
   (D)   Lots: Approximate dimensions of all lots and proposed lot and block
numbers.
   (E)   Uses: Proposed uses of the property, including sites, if any, for
multi-family dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry, parks and
playgrounds, or other public or semipublic uses.
   (F)   Improvements: Statement of the subdivision improvements proposed to be
made or installed, including sidewalks, curbs, gutters, street improvements,
sewer drains and the time such improvements are to be made or completed.
   (G)   Sewage Disposal: Method of sewage disposal.
   (H)   Written Statement: Such of the foregoing information as may not be
shown practically on the maps may be shown in separate statements accompanying
the preliminary plan. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-2-5: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   (A)   Submission: Twelve (12) copies of the preliminary plat and
supplemental material specified shall be submitted to the planning and zoning
commission at least fifteen (15) days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting
for consideration.
   (B)   Conditional Approval: Following review of the preliminary plat and
supplemental material, as submitted or modified, the planning and zoning
commission shall express any approval of the plat as conditional approval and
state the conditions, and shall submit the same to the city council for
conditional approval.
   (C)   Notice Of Approval: The action of the planning and zoning commission
shall be noted on two (2) copies of the preliminary plat. One copy shall be
returned to the subdivider and the other retained by the planning and zoning
commission and the city council.
   (D)   Limitation Of Approval: Conditional approval of a preliminary plat
shall not constitute approval of the final plat for record. Rather, it shall be
a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for
approval of the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
CHAPTER 3
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Time Limit
6-3-2: Partial Development
6-3-3: Information Required
6-3-4: Procedure For Filing
6-3-1: TIME LIMIT:
The final plat, prepared at the subdivider's expense, shall be recorded within
ninety (90) days following the conditional approval given on the preliminary
plat, and shall incorporate the recommendations made by the commission. If the
subdivider wishes to proceed with the subdivision of his land after the
expiration of ninety (90) days, he shall resubmit the preliminary plat to the
planning and zoning commission and make any revisions considered necessary to
meet changed conditions. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-3-2: PARTIAL DEVELOPMENT:
If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute only that portion
of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at the
time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of this
title. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-3-3: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The final plat shall meet all the requirements of chapter 13, Idaho Code, and
shall include the following information:
   (A)   Name; Size; Location: Name of the subdivision, the acreage enclosed,
and the location of the subdivision by section, township and range.
   (B)   North Point; Scale: North point and scale of drawing.
   (C)   Bearings And Distances: Boundary line of the tract, bearings and
distances, ties as required by law, and the distances and bearings to the
closest land division corner, i.e., section corner or quarter corner.
   (D)   Curve Dimension: All curves shall be a circular area and shall be
described by the degree of curvature, central angle, length and bearing of the
long chord, length and bearing of the tangents.
   (E)   Streets And Alleys: The location, name, width and curve dimensions of
each street and alley or other public right of way.
   (F)   Easements: Locations and widths.
   (G)   Existing Utilities: Type, use, location and size.
   (H)   Surrounding Area: A location or vicinity map showing the relationship
to the near surrounding area and the major existing streets of this surrounding
and adjacent area.
   (I)   Lot Lines: All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths and
with bearings and angles to the nearest thirty (30) seconds of arc.
   (J)   Numbering: Blocks shall be numbered consecutively throughout the
tract; and lots throughout each block.
   (K)   Monuments: A certificate signed by the surveyor or engineer certifying
that the following points and corners and monuments have been set on the tract:
   Centerline intersections and points of curvature and tangency of all street
centerlines shall be marked with a three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter iron rod,
or standard brass cap, set in concrete not less than six inches (6") square at
the top and not less than ten inches (10") square at the bottom. The concrete
monument shall be at least twenty four inches (24") in vertical height. The
iron rod shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24") long, extending one
inch (1") above the top of the concrete monument. The top of the monument shall
set flush in the finished roadway surface. Block corners and boundary corners
shall be five-eighths inch (5/8") diameter iron rod, at least thirty inches
(30") in length. Lot corners shall be one-half inch (1/2") diameter steel rods
at least twenty four inches (24") in length.
   (L)   Closed Traverse Computation: A copy of the closed traverse
computations which shall be sufficiently complete to show that all boundaries
of lots, blocks and the entire subdivision close to an accuracy of not less
than one part in four thousand (4,000). (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-3-4: PROCEDURE FOR FILING:
   (A)   Submission: The final plat shall be submitted to the city clerk, who
shall forward it to the planning and zoning commission for approval. Expenses
shall be paid by the subdivider.
   (B)   Planning And Zoning Commission Approval: The planning and zoning
commission shall check the final plat with the conditionally approved
preliminary plat for conformity with recommended revisions. If approved, the
plat shall be forwarded to the city council.
   (C)   Fees: The following fees shall accompany the final plat when presented
to the city council for approval: (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
      1.   Filing Fees: As set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975; amd. 1977 Code; Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
      2.   Copies At Subdivider's Expense: One copy each shall be provided to
the county surveyor, county assessor, city engineer and city clerk. (Ord. 266,
4-10-1975)
CHAPTER 4
PRINCIPLES OF ACCEPTABILITY
SECTION:
6-4-1: Principles Enumerated
6-4-1: PRINCIPLES ENUMERATED:
   (A)   Summary: The street layout for each subdivision shall be based on the
sections of the master plan adopted or proposed for the city and shall be
considered in relation to existing and planned streets, to topographic
conditions, to public convenience and safety, and shall have an appropriate
relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets. Where
such is not shown on the master plan, the arrangement of streets in a
subdivision shall either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
streets in surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to the plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
city council to meet a particular situation where topography or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   (B)   Intersections, Along Arterial Streets: Intersections of residential or
collector streets with arterial streets and highways shall, insofar as
practicable, be widely spread along the arterial streets and be limited in the
number of intersections to the minimum necessary for reasonable convenient
access between arterial streets and local neighborhood areas.
   (C)   Future Extension Of Streets: Where a subdivision adjoins unsubdivided
land, streets which, in the opinion of the city council, should be continued in
the event of the subdivision of the adjoining land, will be required to be
provided to the boundary lines of the tract.
   (D)   Partial Development: Where the plat to be subdivided contains only
part of the tract owned by the subdivider, the city council shall require a
sketch of a tentative future street system for the unsubdivided portion.
   (E)   Acreage Tract: Where a tract of land is subdivided into large parcels,
the arrangement of lots and streets shall be so as to permit a resubdivision
into smaller lots in conformity with the street and lot requirements specified
in these regulations. Building setback lines shall be established in order to
preserve future rights of way.
   (F)   Frontage On Arterial Streets: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the city council may require frontage
streets, reverse frontage lots with a minimum depth of one hundred fifty feet
(150'), screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear
property line, or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
   (G)   Half Street: Half streets may be approved when essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision when in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and when the city council finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Whenever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
Half streets will not be constructed until both sides have been platted.
   (H)   Street Names: No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to
the approval of the city council and shall conform to the street name and
pattern established by ordinance and from the official city map.
   (I)   Reserved Strips: Reserved strips or street plugs controlling the
access to public ways will not be approved unless such strips are necessary for
the protection of the public welfare or of substantial property rights, or
both, and in no case unless the control and disposal of the land comprising
such strips is placed definitely within the jurisdiction of the city under
conditions approved by the city council. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
CHAPTER 5
DIMENSION AND LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: General Requirements
6-5-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Right Of Way Widths: Street right of way widths shall be shown
on the master plan and, where not shown thereon, shall be adequate for the type
of street indicated by its function in the design of the land and subdivision.
   (B)   Width: Width of rights of way shall meet the minimum requirements
shown in the following table:
 
Type Of Street                                           Right Of Way Minimum
Arterial street                                          80 feet
For multi-family or commercial development and collector 80 feet
streets
Residential street                                       50 feet
Cul-de-sac (dead end street with turnaround)             50 feet
Turnaround for cul-de-sac                                40 foot radius
Alley                                                    20 feet
 
   (C)   Intersections:
      1.   Horizontal Intersection Angle: Ninety degree (90°) preferred;
seventy five degree (75°) minimum.
      2.   Sight Distance: The city council may require such conditions as will
establish and protect adequate sight distances for vehicular traffic at street
intersections.
   (D)   Curves: When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any
one point by more than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected by a curve
with a radius adequate to ensure traffic safety and proper street construction
and appearance.
   (E)   Blocks: The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be designed
with due regard to:
      1.   Building Sites: Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Traffic: Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and
safety of street traffic.
      3.   Topography: Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (F)   Lots:
      1.   Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall in all cases conform to the minimum
requirements of the zoning regulations for the district.
      2.   Side Lot Lines: The side lines of lots shall run at right angles to
the street on which the lots face, as far as is practicable, or on curved
streets shall be radial to the curve as far as practicable.
      3.   Double And Reverse Frontage: Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      4.   Lots Subject To Resubdivision: In subdividing tracts which at some
future time are likely to be resubdivided, the location of lot lines and other
details of the layouts shall be such that resubdivision may readily take place
without violating the requirements of these regulations and without interfering
with the orderly development of streets. Restrictions of buildings within
future street locations shall be made a matter of record if the city council
considers it necessary.
      5.   Intersections: Property lines at intersections shall be rounded with
a minimum radius of ten feet (10'), or shall have comparable cutoffs or chords
in place of rounded corners.
   (G)   Easements For Utility Lines: Easements for sewer, water, gas,
electric, telephone, drainage, irrigation or other public utilities shall be
required. Easements for utility lines shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15')
in width, and centered on rear or side lot lines.
   (H)   Watercourses: Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
including irrigation ditches and canals, drainageway, channel or stream, there
shall be provided an easement of such width adequate to carry the water and to
construct and maintain the waterway.
   (I)   Alleys:
      1.   Location: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts, unless other access to off street parking and loading facilities are
made, as approved by the city council.
      2.   Intersections: Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment
shall be avoided, but, where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently
to permit safe vehicular movement.
      3.   Dead Ends: Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities as
determined by the city council.
   (J)   Sewage System: In subdivisions within the city, method and extent of
sewage disposal shall meet with the standards of and be approved by the city.
In subdivisions within one mile of the city, method and extent of sewage
disposal shall meet the standards of and be approved by the appropriate state
and federal agencies having jurisdiction over such matters. In a subdivision
within a reasonable distance to an existing sanitary system, the subdivider may
be required to make connection thereto.
   (K)   Land Surface Drainage: Such grading shall be done and such structure
shall be provided by the subdivider as are deemed essential by the city
engineer to provide adequate drainage. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Minimum Street Requirements
6-6-2: Minimum Sewer Line Requirements
6-6-3: Minimum Water Line Requirements
6-6-4: Pipe Sizes
6-6-5: Plans
6-6-6: Responsibilities
6-6-1: MINIMUM STREET REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Forty foot (40') wide asphalt concrete surface two inches (2") thick;
one-half inch (1/2") or three-fourths inch (3/4") maximum aggregate approved by
the city council.
   (B)   Minimum eight inches (8") compacted crushed aggregate base; six inches
(6") of one and one-half inches (11/2") minus and two inches (2") of three-
fourths inch (3/4") minus.
   (C)   Compacted subgrade.
   (D)   Two percent (2%) crown minimum.
   (E)   Provide curb and gutter as typical. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-6-2: MINIMUM SEWER LINE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum three inch (3") asbestos cement.
   (B)   Minimum grade of four-tenths percent (0.4%).
   (C)   Thirty six inch (36") minimum depth.
   (D)   To be located ten feet (10') right or left of street or alley
centerline.
   (E)   Services to be stubbed by city to property lines before street
construction. Saddles required.
   (F)   Trenches to be water settled or mechanically compacted.
   (G)   Standard manholes required at all angle points, both vertical and
horizontal.
   (H)   Standard manhole covers with dust pans. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-6-3: MINIMUM WATER LINE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum of six inch (6") asbestos cement.
   (B)   Minimum thirty six inch (36") depth. At least one foot (1') depth
difference from sewer line.
   (C)   Located ten feet (10') left or right of street centerline.
   (D)   Service to be stubbed to property line by city. Corporation and curb
stops required.
   (E)   Trenches to be water settled or mechanically compacted.
   (F)   Loop connection mains where possible.
   (G)   Gate valves at beginning and end of main as required by the
circumstances.
   (H)   One fire hydrant and valve for every one hundred twenty five thousand
(125,000) square feet of subdivision to be placed as directed by the city.
   (I)   Risers required on all gate valves and curb stops. (Ord. 266, 4-10-
1975)
6-6-4: PIPE SIZES:
Any pipe sizes required by the city larger than above set forth will be
compensated for on proportional basis by the city. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-6-5: PLANS:
Three (3) sets of plans for sewer, water and street construction shall be
prepared at the expense of the subdivider by a registered professional engineer
and shall be submitted to the city public works director for approval prior to
construction. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-6-6: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The subdivider shall be responsible and pay for all expenses in connection with
the subdivision, including engineering, construction of streets and alleys,
construction of water lines, sewer, drains, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and fire
hydrants, whether the subdivision is within or outside the city limits. All
engineering shall conform to city standards. The city engineer or public works
director, at the expense of the subdivider, shall be responsible for inspection
of public utilities and all streets, alleys, water lines, sewers, drains,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks and fire hydrants, and all of the same shall be
constructed and installed by the subdivider to conform to all city ordinances
and state laws. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
CHAPTER 7
VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Council Powers
6-7-2: Conditions
6-7-1: COUNCIL POWERS:
Where the city council finds that extraordinary hardship may result from strict
compliance with these regulations, it may vary the regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that
such variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
the master plan of the city. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
6-7-2: CONDITIONS:
In granting variances and modifications, the city council may require such
conditions as will, in their judgment, secure substantially the objectives of
the standards or requirements so varied or modified. (Ord. 266, 4-10-1975)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; PUBLIC WAYS 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Permit Requirements
7-1-3: Construction Regulations
7-1-4: Owner Responsible For Condition Of Sidewalks
7-1-5: Street Grades
7-1-6: Installation And Construction Specifications
7-1-7: New Buildings; Curbs And Sidewalks Required
7-1-8: Obstructing Streets
7-1-9: Responsibility For Improvements
 
Notes
1 1. Note: A certified copy of this chapter shall be recorded in the office of
  the county recorder of Gooding County, Idaho.
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
OWNER: Any form of legal or equitable ownership, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation, or in any other fiduciary, legal or equitable
capacity.
PUBLIC SIDEWALKS: For the purpose of this chapter and establishing owner's
responsibility shall be those public sidewalks abutting the owner's property or
those adjacent public sidewalks located between the owner's property frontage
lines and the adjacent public street curb lines. In those locations where there
is no curb, the responsibility of the said property owner for said repairs
shall extend to the edge of the nearest public traffic lanes. (Ord. 339, 8-14-
1986)
7-1-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   No public sidewalk shall be repaired or installed by any person
without first having a written permit from the city. A permit shall cover only
contiguous construction and the work to be done as one continuous operation.
   (B)   A permit shall expire for work not started within forty five (45)
days, or completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after the issuance of a
permit. (Ord. 339, 8-14-1986)
7-1-3: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Construction And Grade Specifications: Applicant shall follow the
provisions required by the City of Wendell or their representative for sidewalk
construction and grade.
   (B)   Variances: The City Council may authorize variances from standard
sidewalk provisions where no curb exists or when unusual topographical
conditions, nature of existing construction, or similar factors would make
adherence to standard provisions unreasonable.
   (C)   Inspection Of Work: All work shall be subject to inspection by the
city during construction and upon completion. No concrete shall be poured
without the permit and approval of the City of Wendell. (Ord. 339, 8-14-1986;
amd. Ord. 551-2023, 6- -2023)
7-1-4: OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR CONDITION OF SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   Repair And Replacement: All owners or agents of owners with property
abutting or fronting upon any plaza or street within the corporate limits of
the city, are required to keep the public sidewalks in good order and repair.
Each such owner shall be liable to the city for all losses to the city or
recoveries from the city for damages to persons or property of others caused by
his failure or that of his agents, to keep in good order and reasonably safe
condition, all such sidewalks fronting his property upon any plaza or street
within the corporate limits of the city. The city may, at its discretion,
through the superintendent of streets and alleys, notify such owner that
repairs or replacements are necessary to put such sidewalks in good order and
such owner shall, within thirty (30) days after such notification, under the
supervision of the building inspector, complete such repairs or replacements as
specified in such notice. If the person fails to make the required repairs or
replacements, the city may repair or replace same, at their sole discretion,
and the owner shall be liable to the city for the cost of the repair or
replacement, and such costs shall be a lien and encumbrance against the
property in favor of the city. If the city takes such action in connection with
repair or replacement and recording a lien against the property, the city clerk
is authorized to file and certify such lien with the county recorder of Gooding
County, Idaho, and such charge will be a proper charge and lien against the
owner's property as mentioned. If such charges are not paid within thirty (30)
days after recording of same with the Gooding County recorder, the city clerk
shall, at the discretion and direction of the mayor and city council, certify
such charges, with a copy to the delinquent owner, to the treasurer of Gooding
County, Idaho, to be placed on the tax rolls of Gooding County for collection,
and the same shall be collected in the same manner and with like effect and
subject to the same charges and penalties as other taxes.
   (B)   Ice, Snow And Debris Removal: Each of said sidewalk owners shall also
be responsible for and it shall be his or her duty, to clear his or her
sidewalk of accumulations of ice, snow, debris, or any other encroachments
which unreasonably interfere with the use of the sidewalks by the general
public. If the city, at its sole discretion, elects to clear any such sidewalk
of ice, snow, debris or obstructions as mentioned, then the city may declare a
lien against the abutting property for costs of such removal and clearance.
Such lien may be charged and collected as mentioned above, in connection with
repair of sidewalks. (Ord. 339, 8-14-1986)
7-1-5: STREET GRADES:
All permanent sidewalks ordered constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be built on the grade established by the city for the street or
streets on which the same are built, which grades shall be furnished to the
property owners by the city engineer. Streets shall be constructed in good and
workmanlike manner, under the supervision of the city engineer and in
accordance with detailed specifications furnished by him. (Ord. 35, 5-8-1914)
7-1-6: INSTALLATION AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be installed and constructed with such materials
and in such manner as are set forth in the specifications of the city engineer
on file in the office of the city clerk, or in such specifications as may be
hereafter filed by the city engineer. (1977 Code)
7-1-7: NEW BUILDINGS; CURBS AND SIDEWALKS REQUIRED:
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this section to establish the policy
and procedure that no new buildings for residential or business purposes shall
be erected without the construction of curbs, gutters and sidewalks and being
installed in conjunction with the construction of such buildings.
   (B)   No building permit for the construction of any building for
residential or business purposes shall hereafter issue unless the application
therefor contains an adequate description of the plans and specifications for
the construction and installation of curbs, gutters and sidewalks.
   (C)   If sixty percent (60%) or more of the total property length adjacent
to the property on a standard block does not have existing curb and gutter, the
construction of curb and gutter may be deferred unless it will connect to an
existing curb and gutter section. Calculation of the amount of existing curb
and gutter shall include the length of the property in question. The standard
block shall be the distance between two (2) intersecting streets or four
hundred feet (400'), whichever is less. This same sixty percent (60%) criteria
shall separately apply to the requirement for sidewalks. All curb and gutter to
be considered as existing shall be to acceptable line and grade.
   In the event it appears that this subsection is applicable, the application
for building permit shall contain a covenant by the applicant that the
construction of such curb, gutter and sidewalk shall be constructed by the
applicant or his successors in interest upon demand by the city. Demand may be
made by the city at any time when it appears that buildings have been
constructed upon sixty percent (60%) or more of the block as first herein
provided, whether or not curb, gutter and sidewalks have been constructed in
connection therewith.
   (D)   All such curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and title 4,
chapter 1 of this code, and such provisions are hereby amended, respectively,
to the extent necessary to effectuate the purposes and intent of this section.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which the
violation of the provisions of this section is committed, continued or
permitted. (Ord. 293, 10-27-1977)
7-1-8: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or cause to be obstructed any
public street, alley, sidewalk or bridge or to render inconvenient to pass; to
continue such obstruction as to dig up any street, alley, sidewalk or public
ground within the city without the authority of the mayor, or to place, leave
or cause to be placed or left in any street, alley or sidewalk any wagon, cart,
sleigh, dray, barrow, handcart or other vehicle, or any lumber, wood or timber
or other article or thing whatsoever, in such manner as to obstruct or
interfere with the public use of any street, alley or sidewalk, or to fence or
to fill in or remove any earth or other material from any street, alley or
sidewalk or interfere therewith except by permission of the mayor, or to throw,
cast or lay any ashes, offal, shavings, dirt, filth, soapsuds, filthy water or
rubbish of any kind whatsoever in any street, sidewalk, watercourse, ditch,
lane, alley or place within the city, except as may be designated by the city
authorities. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
7-1-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Definitions: As used herein:
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT: Those areas which have met the following conditions
for a period of at least five (5) years:
      1.   Have been within the city limits;
      2.   Have had all public and private streets serving the development
graded and open to the public;
      3.   Have had fifty one percent (51%) or more of the area within the
development boundary occupied by buildings.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT: All areas within the jurisdiction of the city not defined
as "existing development".
   (B)   Responsibility Of Landowners: Landowners in new development shall be
obligated for all costs of engineering and construction of service facilities,
and all such engineering and construction shall be in accordance with the terms
and provisions of the subdivision title of the city, and as the same may be
hereafter amended and supplemented.
   (C)   Responsibility Of City: The city shall bear the costs and
responsibility of engineering in existing developments. The city and landowners
shall be obligated for construction costs pertaining to streets, pavement of
streets, installation of streetlights, fire hydrants, curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, water lines, sewer and storm sewers and similar improvements in such
proportions and amounts as may be established from time to time by resolution
of the city establishing policies for such construction and development.
This section shall not apply to developments which are substantially in
progress as of the effective date hereof. (Ord. 292, 10-27-1977)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN GRAVITY WASTEWATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Regulation By City
7-2-2: Permit Required For Discharge
7-2-3: Application For Permit
7-2-4: Water Quality Determination
7-2-5: Compliance With Regulations
7-2-6: Discharge Without Permit, Nuisance
7-2-1: REGULATION BY CITY:
It is hereby declared to be in the best interests of the inhabitants of the
city, and in the preservation of public health, and to promote the general
welfare, that the control of discharge of water or other waste into the open
gravity wastewater system of the city be controlled and upon terms and
provisions as fixed by the city. (Ord. 259, 3-28-1974)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR DISCHARGE:
No person shall hereafter permit, allow or suffer any water, liquids of any
nature or other waste to be discharged into any portion of the open gravity
wastewater system of the city, as now or hereafter constructed, without having
first obtained a permit from the city for such discharge. (Ord. 259, 3-28-1974)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring to discharge any water, liquid or other waste into the
gravity wastewater system of the city shall make application for permission so
to do to the city clerk, and no such permit shall issue except upon the
approval thereof by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 259, 3-28-1974)
7-2-4: WATER QUALITY DETERMINATION:
The mayor and city council shall not issue any such permit unless and until a
determination is made that the water quality of the matter sought to be so
discharged is of an equal or better quality than that presently being conveyed
in the said gravity wastewater system of the city. If any valid rules or
regulations of any federal, state or county are then in effect, prescribing
standards of water quality discharged by the city, anyone seeking a permit
shall establish that the applicant will not cause, permit or suffer any
discharge from applicant's property into the city wastewater system not
satisfying such rules, standards or regulations. (Ord. 259, 3-28-1974)
7-2-5: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
It is hereby declared that it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any
waste into any part of the gravity wastewater system of the city, except as
herein provided. (Ord. 259, 3-28-1974)
7-2-6: DISCHARGE WITHOUT PERMIT, NUISANCE:
The discharge of any such water into the gravity wastewater system of the city,
without having obtained a permit, as herein provided, is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. (Ord. 259, 3-28-1974)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE REGULATIONS; RATES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Application Of Provisions
7-3-4: Use Of Public Sewers
7-3-5: Injury To Sewerage System Unlawful
7-3-6: Permission To Discharge Objectionable Waste Or Water
7-3-7: Powers And Authority Of City
7-3-8: Basis For Determining Sewer User Charges
7-3-9: Rate Change Request
7-3-10: Purpose Of Monthly Sewer User Charge
7-3-11: Monthly Rates
7-3-12: Sewer Connection Required
7-3-12.1: Extensions
7-3-13: Rates And Charges
7-3-14: Nonpayment, Lien
7-3-15: Privies, Cesspools Restricted
7-3-16: Penalty
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city, and for the purpose of controlling the use and for providing an
equitable distribution of the costs and expenses of maintenance, operation,
upkeep and repair of the entire sewerage treatment system, which includes the
pump lift station, sewage lagoons and land disposal facilities of the city, to
charge and collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands, property and
premises served or benefited by the sewerage system of the city, which system
and facilities consist generally of all pipelines, conduits, manholes, clean
outs, sewer mains, intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, lift stations, pumps,
structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the treatment and disposal
of sewage or sewage byproducts. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to a point of connection
with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT: Includes the various types of developments that
would have common or joint ownership areas such as condominiums, townhouses,
mobile home parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the recripocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer connects to the
public sewer.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society or corporation,
or group who has connected to the sewerage system.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate
limits of the city, and any special users outside of the corporate limits of
the city, including all property owned or occupied by the United States of
America, Gooding County and the state of Idaho. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
The use of the public sewers of the city shall be in accordance with the
following regulations:
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting any excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs", as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection (D) of this section, and which, in
the judgment of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
7-3-8 of this chapter. If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the city, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   (H)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life and property.
   (J)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
   (K)   Any property owner or sewer user violating the provisions of this
section shall, upon notice by the city, immediately install such preliminary
treatment through separators, traps and/or chemical, physical or biochemical
processes as will make and assure that the sewage contributed from such
property or premises will meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 268, 5-
22-1975)
7-3-5: INJURY TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage, rubbish,
dead animals or any substance having a tendency to obstruct the flow of the
sewer in any manhole, clean out or sewer opening. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-6: PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE OBJECTIONABLE WASTE OR WATER:
The admission into the public sewers of any water or wastes having: a)
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than three hundred milligrams per liter
(300 mg/l); or b) suspended solids in excess of three hundred milligrams per
liter (300 mg/l), shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
Where necessary, in the opinion of the city, the owner shall provide, at his
expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the BOD to
three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) and the suspended solids to three
hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l). Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the city and of the state department of
health, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY:
   (A)   The city, through its authorized representative bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The city shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, oil,
refining, ceramics, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or natural waterways.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
hereinabove in this section, the authorized representative of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the sewer
user and the sewer user shall be held harmless for injury or death to any city
authorized representative, and the city shall indemnify the sewer user against
loss or damage to its property by any authorized city representative and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury and property damage
asserted against the sewer user growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the sewer
user to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (C)   The city, through its authorized representative bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-8: BASIS FOR DETERMINING SEWER USER CHARGES:
   (A)   Rates: The sewer user rate shall be based on the following equivalent
user schedule, "one equivalent user" defined as contributing two hundred sixty
(260) gallons per day, and fifty five-hundredths (0.55) pound of five (5) day
BOD per day to the sewer system:
 
USER EQUIVALENT SCHEDULE
Single-family residences     1 equivalent user
Churches                     1 equivalent user
Mobile home or trailer house 1 equivalent user
Offices                      1 equivalent user
Multiple living units1       1 equivalent user per apartment
Special users2               Not applicable
 
   Notes:
      1.    This basis of charge applicable to multiple living unit not
designated as a special user.
      2.    Each special user shall be evaluated separately based on the flow
and BOD characteristics of the sewage discharged to the sewer. A copy of the
list of special users, the characteristics of their sewage and the user charge
for each shall be kept on file at all times in the office of the city clerk.
   Charges for sewage treatment operation, maintenance and replacement shall be
computed in the following manner:
   DEFINITION OF VARIABLES:
   A =   Anticipated yearly expense
   B =   Total daily BOD to treatment facilities
   C =   Chemical expenses
   D =   Daily BOD from a special user
   E =   Electrical expenses
   F =   Total daily wastewater flow to treatment facility
   G =   Total daily BOD from special users
   H =   Total daily wastewater flow from special users
   I =   Total daily BOD from equivalent users
   J =   Total daily wastewater flow from equivalent users
   K =   Fraction allocable to wastewater flow
   L =   Labor and equipment expenses for O&M
   M =   Monitoring and testing expenses
   N =   Number of equivalent users
   O =   Additional anticipated yearly expenses
   P =   Previous year expenses
   Q =   Daily wastewater flow from a special user
   R =   Replacement sinking fund
   S =   Total number of special users
   T =   Total number of sewer users
   U =   Daily wastewater flow per user equivalent
   V =   Daily BOD per user equivalent
   W =   Cost per unit of flow
   X =   Cost per # BOD/day
   Y =   Yearly cost for each equivalent user
   Z =   Monthly equivalent user rate
   AA =   Total yearly cost allocable to wastewater flow
   BB =   Total yearly cost allocable to BOD
   CC =   Total yearly cost for a special user
   A=P+O = C+E L+M+R
ALLOCATION OF COSTS
Type Of Cost Flow BOD
ALLOCATION OF COSTS
Type Of Cost        Flow   BOD
Chemical            K1 x C (1-K1) x C
Electrical          K2 x E (1-K2) x E
Labor and equipment K3 x L (1-K3) x L
Monitoring          K4 x M (1-K4) x M
Replacement         K5 x 4 (1-K5) x R
Sum total           AA     BB
 
   W = AA/F   ) Yearly unit costs for BOD and flow computation
         )
   X = BB/F   )
   COMPUTATION OF MONTHLY EQUIVALENT USER COSTS
      N =    T - S
      J =    F - H
      I =    B - G
      U =    J + N
      V =    I + N
      Y =    W x U + X x V
      Z =    Y + 12
   COMPUTATION OF MONTHLY USER COSTS
      Yearly BOD cost special user = D x W
      Yearly flow cost special user = Q x W
      Sum total          CC
      Monthly special user rate = CC + 12
   Revisions to the user charges shall be based upon actual operation,
maintenance and replacement expenses and/or a significant change in the total
number of equivalent users, total daily BOD and/or total daily flow to the
sewage treatment facilities. As a minimum, the user charge for operation,
maintenance and replacement will be reviewed annually and updated to reflect
actual costs.
   The city may install a measuring device in the sewer service line at any
time to determine the amount of wastewater and/or collect wastewater samples
for testing. After measuring and/or sampling, the city may adjust the user
charge to conform to actual usage. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975; amd. Ord. 519-2013, 3-
7-2013)
   (B)   Determine Equivalent Residential Units:
      1.   Equivalent Residential Units:
         (a)   Each property connecting to city of Wendell's potable water
system and/or wastewater system shall be assigned an equivalent residential
unit (ERU), or multiple thereof.
            (1)   All single-family residential properties connecting to city
services are assigned one ERU.
            (2)   All master metered multi-family residential properties
connecting to city services shall be assigned appropriate ERUs as indicated by
equivalent residential unit table.
            (3)   All properties connecting to city services which are not
residential properties will be assigned, by the public works director, city
administrator or an engineered study, an ERU multiple based upon the property's
estimated daily water consumption (in gallons). A division will be calculated
to the second decimal place and rounded according to mathematical convention.
In no event shall a nonresidential property be assigned an ERU of less than
one.
         (b)   The city of Wendell's potable water system and wastewater system
capacity fees are set by resolution by the Wendell city council annually or as
needed.
         (c)   The ERU multiple established for nonresidential properties based
on estimated water consumption shall be reviewed twelve (12) months after
occupancy to determine if the estimated daily water consumption is accurate.
Any increase or decrease in the ERU multiple based on actual water consumption
shall be corrected and communicated to the property owner in writing.
      2.   Restricted Funds:
         (a)   All potable water system capacity fees shall be deposited into
the city's potable water capacity fee fund.
         (b)   All wastewater sewer system capacity fees shall be deposited
into the city's wastewater sewer capacity fee fund.
         (c)   Funds collected pursuant to this subsection shall be expended
only for system improvements.
         (d)   The city of Wendell's potable water system and wastewater system
capacity fees are set by resolution by the Wendell city council on an annual
basis or as needed.
      3.   Appeal To City Council:
         (a)   An ERU determination by the city public works director, city
administrator, or engineered study shall be final unless a written notice of
appeal to the city council is filed with the city of Wendell within twenty (20)
days of the date of such ERU determination.
         (b)   The appeal must include the names of all witnesses, including
experts that will testify in support of appellant's appeal with a summary of
the testimony of each witness or expert.
         (c)   The appeal shall be heard by the city council not more than
ninety (90) days after the appeal is filed by the appellant. The decision of
the city council shall be reflected in council meeting minutes. (Ord. 519-2013,
3-7-2013)
7-3-9: RATE CHANGE REQUEST:
Any user feeling aggrieved at the user charge for OM&R may request that his
charge be changed if:
   (A)   Flow proportioned BOD tests certified by an independent laboratory
specializing in wastewater analysis indicates significant deviation in BOD5
from the value used by the city in computing the BOD charge; and/or
   (B)   Total daily wastewater flow measurements derived from a continuously
recording measuring device and certified by an authorized representative of the
city as to their authenticity indicate a significant deviation in wastewater
flow from the value used by the city in computing wastewater flow charge;
   (C)   The flow measurement and testing methods are approved in detail by the
city prior to actual measurement and testing.
All changes in user charges applicable to this chapter shall be computed by the
method outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975)
7-3-10: PURPOSE OF MONTHLY SEWER USER CHARGE:
   (A)   The monthly sewer user charge is established to cover operation and
maintenance costs of the treatment system, and to provide a fund, to pay for
replacement costs.
   (B)   For new construction, the sewer user charge is to begin when the
service connection has been inspected and approved or when the building being
served is substantially completed, whichever is the latest date. (Ord. 268, 5-
22-1975)
7-3-11: MONTHLY RATES:
   (A)   Monthly rates for the various classifications of sewer users defined
in section
7-3-8 of this chapter shall be established by the city council through
resolutions to that effect and shall be kept on file at all times in the office
of the city clerk1.
   (B)   Effective June 1, 2005, only real property owners of property served
by the city services may subscribe to city utility services, including water,
sewer and sanitation. The property owner shall be considered the “water user”,
“sewer user” and “sanitation user”. Notwithstanding the above, language, a
tenant of real property may complete an application for utility services for
real property rented by the tenant and receive bills for utilities furnished to
said real property, where the real property owner has completed an application
for utility services to said real property and the real property owner has
consented in writing to a lien on said real property for the nonpayment of
utility services furnished to the real property. (Ord. 268, 5-22-1975; amd.
Ord. 448, 4-7-2005; Ord. 561-2025, 1-2-2025)
7-3-12: SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Requirements: All owners of property, tenants and other occupants of
real property within the municipal areas within the city of Wendell, Idaho, and
within two hundred feet (200') of the general sewerage system of the city, and
within the areas physically capable of receiving the services of the system of
sewerage in the city, shall, within ninety (90) days after a notice signed by
the city clerk requiring connections to be made with such sewerage system,
cause connections to be made between said sewerage system and their respective
properties. All connections of said sewer system heretofore constructed and
made shall be maintained in a sanitary, permanent and watertight condition. All
connections made hereafter shall be made in a permanent and sanitary manner and
shall be sufficient to carry all the sewerage and waste fluids of every kind
from the building into said system of sewage, and each toilet, sink, stationary
washstand and other piece or type of equipment having waste fluids, shall be
connected with said system; provided, that where the building or structure has
not been completed before such notice, connection shall be made on or before
completion of such building or structure and before any occupancy or use
thereof.
   (B)   Failure To Repair; Action By City; Lien: If any connection or any
needed repair to an existing condition shall not be made within the time herein
provided, the city council is hereby authorized and directed to cause the same
to be made and to file a statement of the costs thereof with the city clerk,
and thereupon a warrant shall be issued under the direction of the city council
by the city treasurer for the payment of such cost. The amount of such cost,
together with a penalty of ten dollars ($10.00), plus interest at eight percent
(8%) per annum upon the total amount of such costs and penalty, shall be
assessed against the property upon which the said building or structure is
situated and shall become a lien thereon as hereafter provided. (Ord. 454A, 3-
7-2013)
7-3-12.1: EXTENSIONS:
   (A)   All proposed water and/or sewer line extensions to the municipal water
and/or sewer supply of the city shall be first presented to the city council by
application, and all such extensions must be approved by the city council prior
to the commencement of construction.
   (B)   All new water and/or sewer line extensions in the city shall be
installed by the city staff unless otherwise approved by the city council.
   (C)   No water mains less than six inches (6") in diameter shall be
installed within the city service area without the approval of the city
council. No sewer mains less than eight inches (8") in diameter shall be
installed within the city service area without the approval of the city
council.
   (D)   The city may, at the sole discretion of the city council, pay for
water and/or sewer line extensions.
   (E)   The city may also participate in the costs of such extensions by
providing labor, material or other types of cost sharing, all at the sole
discretion of the city council.
   (F)   The city may also enter into agreements to reimburse those persons or
entities that have provided, or will provide, such extensions.
   (G)   Subsections (A) through (F) of this section apply to water and/or
sewer extensions within the corporate boundaries of the city. In the event any
person or other entity desires sewer and/or water extensions or hookups to the
city systems, outside the boundaries of the city limits, an application, in a
form approved by the city council, must be completed and the city council shall
have absolute discretion to either allow, disallow or allow with contingencies,
such extensions. All such extensions must meet city and state standards in
effect at the time of installation and shall be inspected by the city engineer
or city superintendent. The cost of such inspections shall be the
responsibility of the person or entity requesting city services, unless
otherwise waived by the city council.
      1.   Any person or entity desiring such extension shall sign an agreement
for connection to the city water and/or sewer system for property owners
outside of the corporate limits of the city. Such agreement shall provide for
the annexation of the property being served at the option of the city.
      2.   The person or entity desiring such extension shall agree to provide
for such extension at their own expense.
   (H)   "As built" or "record" drawings of water line and/or sewer line plans
shall be prepared by a professional engineer and the "corrected" original
drawing or duplicate mylar copy of the "corrected" original drawing shall be
provided to the city. Such drawing shall be signed by the professional engineer
in charge of the work stating that such drawing is true and correct and that
the job site has been inspected. (Ord. 393, 1-8-1997)
7-3-13: RATES AND CHARGES:
   (A)   The monthly minimum rates and charges are hereby fixed by resolution
for sewer service in the city and shall be paid monthly by said owners, tenants
or occupants, and said rates commencing ninety (90) days after the city clerk
has sent notice, whether the connection is made or not, to their respective
properties or to their successors in interest. An owner of real property will
be connected to the city sewer as stated above; it is the property owner's
responsibility from the sewer main line to the residence or other building.
   (B)   All connections made with the sewer system after completion of the
construction of the general system shall be at the expense of the individual
owner or user, and must be made under direct supervision of an authorized city
official, and an inspection fee as fixed by resolution shall be paid by each
such individual for such connection with the sewer.
   (C)   The city council hereby expressly reserves the right to change or
revise the rates by resolution. (Ord. 454A, 3-7-2013)
7-3-14: NONPAYMENT, LIEN:
   (A)   All charges for connections and for sewerage service provided for in
this chapter, together with penalties and interest thereon, shall be a lien
upon the property with which such connection is made or sewerage service
rendered respectively, superior to all other liens and encumbrances whatsoever
except for general taxes and local special assessments. The city treasurer is
hereby authorized and directed, prior to the expiration of six (6) months from
the first day of the first month for which such charges were unpaid, to certify
to the auditor of Gooding County, Idaho, all of such charges as a lien upon
such property. Said lien will be placed according to the provisions of ldaho
Code section 50-1008 after thirty (30) days of nonpayment of utilities when
due. Notice of delinquency will be sent to the property owner via mail within
five (5) days of the City's certification of a lien amount under Idaho Code
section 50-1008. Payment, notice, hearings and redemption for said lien will
follow the provisions of Idaho Code Title 63, Chapter 10.
   (B)   As an additional and concurrent method of enforcing the lien of the
city for said charges, the city council is hereby authorized and directed at
the end of five (5) days after the date of the first delinquency of any such
charges to shut off the water and sewer services from the premises to which
such services were furnished, and said services shall remain shut off until all
such charges, plus penalties and interest thereon, shall be paid.
   (C)   Utility bills are past due if not paid by five o’clock (5:00) p.m. on
the twentieth (20th) day of the month. When the twentieth (20th) day of the
month falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the utility bill will be
considered due on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
By eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. on the twenty-first (21st) day of the month,
unless that day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, a two percent (2%)
penalty will automatically be added to all unpaid balances. (Ord. 454A, 3-7-
2013; amd. Ord. 561-2025, 1-2-2025)
7-3-15: PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, or use, or cause to be dug, or
used, any privy vault or cesspool, or connect any plumbing with a cesspool, or
build, or cause to be built, any privy building within the limits of the city
of Wendell, except upon written permit by the city council. All applications
for such permits must be in writing and accompanied by a certificate from the
city council that said premises are not within two hundred feet (200') of a
public sewer. (Ord. 454A, 3-7-2013)
7-3-16: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction of a misdemeanor thereof,
be punished by a fine in any sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00),
or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days in the county jail, or by
both said fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 454A, 3-7-2013)
CHAPTER 4
WATER REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Use Of City Water Required
7-4-2: Waterworks Fund
7-4-3: Application For Water, Conditions
7-4-4: Connection Charges
7-4-5: Schedule Of Rates Established
7-4-6: Payment Of Bills
7-4-7: Separate Connections
7-4-8: Service Pipe Specifications
7-4-9: Fire Hydrants, Drinking Fountains
7-4-10: Shut Off For Repairs
7-4-11: Protect Pipes From Freezing
7-4-12: Free Access To Premises
7-4-13: Meter Accuracy
7-4-14: Application To Extend Water Lines
7-4-15: Rules And Regulations
7-4-16: Unlawful Acts
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 1-6-8 of this code for provisions relative to the superintendent of
  waterworks.
7-4-1: USE OF CITY WATER REQUIRED:
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be in the best interest of the inhabitants of
the city; and in the preservation of public health; and to promote the general
welfare that it be provided that a single source of water supply for domestic,
culinary and industrial purposes be maintained and operated within the limits
of the city.
   (B)   It is hereby declared that it shall be unlawful for any person to use
water for any domestic, culinary or industrial purpose which water is not
obtained from the municipal waterworks of the city.
   (C)   The use of any such water from a source other than the municipal
waterworks of the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the mayor and city council, it is determined to
be physically impossible or economically prohibitive for any such inhabitant to
connect to and use water from the municipal waterworks, upon application and
good cause shown therefor, a waiver may be granted by the mayor and city
council and such inhabitant may be permitted to obtain such water from some
other source. (Ord. 255, 2-28-1974)
7-4-2: WATERWORKS FUND:
   (A)   Records: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to keep an
accurate record of all funds turned over to him by the superintendent of
waterworks in a separate fund to be known as the "waterworks fund".
   (B)   Disbursements: All disbursements for the operation and maintenance of
the waterworks system and repair thereof shall be paid out of said fund upon
warrants duly drawn by the mayor and city clerk, and all bills shall be first
approved by the superintendent and passed and allowed by the city council
before warrants therefor shall be drawn on said fund. In case there is a
surplus in said fund over and above the cost of operation, maintenance and
repair of the system, it may be used for the extension of said system if so
ordered by the city council. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-3: APPLICATION FOR WATER, CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Form: All applications for the use of water shall be made upon printed
blanks to be provided by the city, and signed by the applicant. All applicants
shall agree to be governed by such rules and regulations as may be subscribed
by the city council for the management of the system. Such application shall
state the location by street name, lot and block number of the property for
which service is desired, and it shall be unlawful for any person supplied with
water from said waterworks system to furnish to, or supply, any other person
with water except as covered in said application.
   (B)   Discontinuance: Any person desiring to discontinue use of water shall
give notice in writing thereof to the superintendent. No reduction or abatement
of water rates shall be made unless such notice is given, nor for a period of
less than one month.
   (C)   Deposit: The application shall be accompanied by a security deposit,
in such amount as the city council may from time to time establish. A security
deposit is required each time a new "water user," "sewer user," or "sanitation
user" completes an application for water and/or sewer services, unless the
applying user has made timely payment of utilities for twelve consecutive
months. No more than one security deposit at one time will be required for a
given report to receive utility services. If a security deposit is refunded.
pursuant to the terms established by city resolution. the individual or entity
that paid the deposit shall receive the refund of said deposit.
   (D)   Real Property Owner Responsible: Effective June 1, 2005, only real
property owners of property served by the city services may subscribe to city
utility services, including water, sewer and sanitation. The property owner
shall be considered the “water user”, “sewer user” and “sanitation user”. (Ord.
324, 10-8-1981; amd. Ord. 448, 4-7-2005; Ord. 561-2025, 1-2-2025)
7-4-4: CONNECTION CHARGES:
The service pipes and connections from the main to the lot line, including a
curb box, meter and meter box, to be placed within the line of the street curb,
will be put in and maintained by the water department, and kept within its
exclusive control, for which charges shall be as set by resolution pursuant to
section
1-5-3 of this code. (Ord. 359, 11-21-1991; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-1995)
7-4-5: SCHEDULE OF RATES ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   Rates: It shall be the duty of the city council, by order or
resolution duly passed and entered upon the minutes of said city council, to
fix and establish a schedule of rates for the supply of water from the said
waterworks system, which rates shall be payable as provided in section
7-4-6 of this chapter. And the city council may, in the same manner from time
to time, alter, change or amend said schedule of rates; provided, that no such
change shall be made except at a regular meeting of the city council, or at a
meeting called for that special purpose, of which all members shall have been
given due notice. The said rates shall, in every case, cover but one user, lot,
premises, family or firm. (Ord. 324, 10-8-1981; amd. Ord. 519-2013, 3-7-2013)
   (B)   Determine Equivalent Residential Units: See subsection
7-3-8(B) of this title. (Ord. 519-2013, 3-7-2013)
7-4-6: PAYMENT OF BILLS 1 :
The superintendent of waterworks shall, before the first day of each calendar
month, furnish to each user of water from the waterworks system a statement of
the minimum amount due the city for the use of the water for the previous
month, in accordance with the schedule of rates established and in force in the
city. All water rates shall be due and payable on the twentieth of each month,
and unless paid by the twentieth of the month, shall be delinquent, and it
shall be the duty of the superintendent to cause the water to be turned off
from all such delinquent users, and before the water shall be turned on again,
all delinquent rates must be paid in full, plus an additional fee, as set by
resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code, for expense. (Ord. 359, 11-21-1991; amd. Ord. 375, 5-11-
1995; Ord. 548-2023, 3- -2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-2-10 of this code, billing for water along with sewer and garbage charges.
7-4-7: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
Service pipes must be so arranged that the supply of each separate water user,
house or premises may be controlled by a separate stopcock and meter, and
before water will be supplied through such service pipe, the owner of the
property for which service is rendered must agree to be responsible for and pay
for all water used through such service. Where water is now supplied through
one service to one or more houses or persons, the city council may, in their
discretion, either refuse to furnish water until separate service for each user
is provided, or may continue the supply on the condition that one person shall
agree to be responsible for and pay for all water used through such service.
(Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-8: SERVICE PIPE SPECIFICATIONS:
All service and other pipes used underground shall be of cast iron, steel or
extra strong lead or tin lined lead (except private pipes where the use of
special material may be authorized) laid not less than three feet (3') below
the surface of the ground and of sufficient strength to stand the water
pressure. All work upon the alteration or extension of water pipes and size of
pipes shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent of the waterworks;
and no extensions shall be made to another water user from the same service
without a stopcock and meter being attached to the junction of such service
pipe. No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
through or under buildings to adjoining premises, but all service pipes shall
enter the premises at a point nearest the water main. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-9: FIRE HYDRANTS, DRINKING FOUNTAINS:
All fire hydrants and public drinking fountains shall be under the supervision
and control of, and shall be kept in repair by, the superintendent of
waterworks. The fire department shall at all times have free access to the fire
hydrants. Water may also be furnished from the fire hydrants for sprinkling
streets, flushing wagons and other purposes, under the supervision of the
superintendent. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-10: SHUT OFF FOR REPAIRS:
The superintendent of waterworks may, at any time, shut off the water from the
various water mains of said system for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions to said system or for other good reasons, and no claim shall be made
against the city by reason of the breakage of any service pipe, service cock or
meter or for any damage that may result from so shutting off the water;
provided, the superintendent shall have authority to only shut off the water
when necessary, and shall turn the water on again within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-11: PROTECT PIPES FROM FREEZING:
All water users shall keep their service pipes, connections and other apparatus
in good order and repair and protect them from freezing at their own expense;
and no person, except under the direction of the superintendent, shall be
allowed to dig into the streets or sidewalks for the purpose of laying,
removing or repairing any service pipes. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-12: FREE ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Free access shall, at all ordinary hours, be allowed to the superintendent or
other person authorized by him to all places and premises supplied with water
from the waterworks system, to examine the apparatus, read meters or any other
necessary and legal purpose. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
7-4-13: METER ACCURACY:
The superintendent of waterworks shall have power to adjust all erroneous bills
and correct any errors occurring in meter readings, or in rendering of
statements. In case of any dispute about the accuracy of any meter, the
superintendent shall check out such meter and test the same. If the meter is
found to be inaccurate, it shall be adjusted without charge to the consumer,
but if found to be accurate, a charge, as set by resolution pursuant to section
1-5-3 of this code, shall be made to the consumer for testing the meter. The
superintendent shall report all such corrections and adjustments to the city
council monthly, or more often if required. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914; amd. Ord.
375, 5-11-1995)
7-4-14: APPLICATION TO EXTEND WATER LINES:
   (A)   All proposed water and/or sewer line extensions to the municipal water
and/or sewer supply of the city shall be first presented to the city council by
application, and all such extensions must be approved by the city council prior
to the commencement of construction.
   (B)   All new water and/or sewer line extensions in the city shall be
installed by the city staff, unless otherwise approved by the city council.
   (C)   No water mains less than six inches (6") in diameter shall be
installed within the city service area without the approval of city council. No
sewer mains less than eight inches (8") in diameter shall be installed within
the city service area without the approval of the city council.
   (D)   The city may, at the sole discretion of the city council, pay for
water and/or sewer line extensions.
   (E)   The city may also participate in the costs of such extensions by
providing labor, material or other types of cost sharing, all at the sole
discretion of the city council.
   (F)   The city may also enter into agreements to reimburse those persons or
entities that have provided, or will provide, such extensions.
   (G)   Subsections (A) through (F) of this section apply to water and/or
sewer extensions within the corporate boundaries of the city. In the event any
person or other entity desires sewer and/or water extensions or hookups to the
city systems, outside the boundaries of the city limits, an application, in a
form approved by the city council, must be completed, and the city council
shall have absolute discretion to either allow, disallow or allow with
contingencies, such extensions. All such extensions must meet city and state
standards in effect at the time of installation and shall be inspected by the
city engineer or city superintendent. The cost of such inspections shall be the
responsibility of the person or entity requesting city services, unless
otherwise waived by the city council.
      1.   Any person or entity desiring such extension shall sign an agreement
for connection to the city water and/or sewer system for property owners
outside of the corporate limits of the city. Such agreement shall provide for
the annexation of the property being served at the option of the city.
      2.   The person or entity desiring such extension shall agree to provide
for such extension at their own expense.
   (H)   "As built" or "record" drawings of water line and/or sewer line plans
shall be prepared by a professional engineer and the "corrected" original
drawing or duplicate Mylar copy of the "corrected" original drawing shall be
provided to the city. Such drawing shall be signed by the professional engineer
in charge of the work stating that such drawing is true and correct and that
the job site has been inspected. (Ord. 393, 1-8-1997)
7-4-15: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall, from time to time, adopt such further rules and
regulations governing the management and control of said waterworks system, and
the distribution and use of water therefrom as they shall deem best and
necessary and such rules and regulations, when duly adopted, shall have the
same force and effect as if incorporated in an ordinance of the city. (Ord. 39,
12-15-1914)
7-4-16: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those duly authorized, to
perform any of the following acts:
   (A)   To open, operate, tamper or interfere with, or in any manner obstruct
the approach to any fire hydrant.
   (B)   To hitch any vehicle or animal to any fire hydrant or public drinking
fountain.
   (C)   To have in his possession, or to use, or permit to be used any wrench
for any fire hydrant for any other purpose than that authorized by the
superintendent of the waterworks system.
   (D)   To destroy, deface, injure or in any way tamper with any meter, meter
box, stop cock, valve or check, or the pumps, machinery or any apparatus
connected with the operation of said waterworks system.
   (E)   For any water user to permit any person from other premises, or any
unauthorized person to use or obtain water from his premises or water fixtures,
whether inside or outside of his buildings.
   (F)   For any person, by himself, family, servants or agents to use the
water coming through the water mains without first paying therefor as herein
provided, or without authority to open any stop cock, valve or other apparatus
attached to said system of waterworks.
   (G)   For any person, after the water has been turned off from his premises
on account of nonpayment of rates, or other violation of the rules and
regulations pertaining to the use of water, to turn on, or allow the water to
be turned on, or to use or allow to be used, water from said system, without
authority from the superintendent of waterworks.
   (H)   To violate or disobey any of the provisions of this chapter or any of
the rules and regulations in force governing the management, operation and
distribution of water from said waterworks system. (Ord. 39, 12-15-1914)
CHAPTER 6
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose And Scope
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Cross Connections
7-6-4: Service
7-6-5: Violations And Penalties
7-6-6: Severability
7-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health of domestic water
users receiving their water supply from the city. (Ord. 319, 12-11-1980)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
BACKFLOW: The flow of nonpotable water, liquids, gases, or other foreign
substances into the pipes of a potable water system from any source or sources.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: The device to counteract back pressure or to
prevent back siphonage.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement
between a public or a consumer's potable water system to any other source or
system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable
system, used water, industrial fluid, gas or substance other than the intended
potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper
connections, removable sections, swivel or change over devices and any other
temporary or permanent devices which or because of which "backflow" can or may
occur are cross connections. (Ord. 319, 12-11-1980)
7-6-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection shall be installed or hereafter maintained unless
the water supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as required by the
rules and regulations of the Wendell water department as the same now exists or
as may be hereafter amended or supplemented. Any such cross connection now
existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall
be abated. (Ord. 319, 12-11-1980)
7-6-4: SERVICE:
Service to any property, landowner or water consumer receiving a water supply
from the city water supply system shall be contingent upon compliance with all
the requirements of the rules and regulations of the water department and of
this chapter pertaining to cross connections. Service shall be discontinued to
any premises, water consumer or property owner for failure to comply with such
regulations of the water department and of this chapter pertaining to cross
connections, and any discontinued service will not be reestablished until the
city or its designated agent has approved compliance by that particular
premises or water consumer or landowner. (Ord. 319, 12-11-1980)
7-6-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the city in connection herewith, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 319, 12-11-1980)
7-6-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any one or more sections, subsections, or sentences of this chapter are for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decisions shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter and the same
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 319, 12-11-1980)
CHAPTER 7
TREES AND SHRUBS 1
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Responsibilities
7-7-3: Permit Required
7-7-4: Variance
7-7-5: Prohibited
7-7-6: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMUNITY FOREST: All trees within the city.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree on a public right of way or city owned property, or any
tree whose limbs, roots or trunk encroach upon a public right of way or upon
city owned property.
STREET TREES: Trees along a public right of way, sidewalks or streets and
alleyways or trees whose branches, roots or trunks encroach upon the city right
of way, including alleyways. (Ord. 434, 11-18-2003)
7-7-2: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   Property Owners: Owners of property adjacent to a street tree shall
provide adequate maintenance for the tree. Adequate maintenance shall include
sufficient water, proper pruning and protection from injury by vehicles or
other causes.
   (B)   City:
      1.   The city shall remove or cause the removal of public or private tree
branches which present a hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
      2.   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants or shrubs within the right of way of all streets, alleys, and
public grounds. (Ord. 434, 11-18-2003)
7-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Permits shall be required for property owners to remove, prune or plant any
street trees. Permits shall be issued only if it has been established to the
city's satisfaction that there is a need for action and the person so doing has
adequate safety measures in place and adequate insurance. (Ord. 434, 11-18-
2003)
7-7-4: VARIANCE:
Any variance from this chapter shall be applied for as any other variance
pursuant to this code. (Ord. 434, 11-18-2003)
7-7-5: PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to abuse,
destroy, poison or mutilate any public tree, plant, shrub, or the roots of any
public tree, plant or shrub.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to top any public tree. (Ord.
434, 11-18-2003)
7-7-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) per occurrence. (Ord. 434, 11-18-
2003)
CHAPTER 8
WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
7-8-1: Best Practices Of Water Use
7-8-2: Additional Stages 1 - 3 Restrictions
7-8-3: Additional Restrictions
7-8-4: Duration Of Restrictions
7-8-5: Exceptions
7-8-6: Alternate Water Management Plans
7-8-7: Violations And Fines; Appeals
7-8-1: BEST PRACTICES OF WATER USE:
   (A)   The following minimum standards, considered the foundation of "best
practices of water use", are encouraged and recommended by the city of Wendell:
      1.   Increase public awareness of the water supply situation and provide
educational materials about best practice of water use.
      2.   Encourage the entire community to conserve water whenever possible.
      3.   Eating establishment, restaurant, hotel, cafe, cafeteria, etc.,
should not serve drinking water unless expressly requested by a patron and
should display notice of such policy.
      4.   Hotels will provide notice of declared water conservation programs
and encourage conservation practices.
      5.   All city facilities will limit use of potable water for the watering
of landscape to three (3) days a week.
      6.   Vehicles should be washed only on scheduled watering day.
      7.   Landscape watering using potable water is restricted to the
following schedule:
   Even numbered addresses: even number calendar days.
   Odd numbered addresses: odd number calendar days.
   Premises with no street address, such as a median: even number calendar
days.
      8.   Watering will only be allowed on appropriate irrigation days before
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
      9.   Outdoor landscape watering with a drip irrigation system or handheld
container is allowed at any time.
      10.   Sprinkler systems must be maintained in a manner that promotes
efficient watering and limits leaks or damage to the system that would allow
flow of water beyond property lines.
      11.   Customers are encouraged to use irrigation water rather than
potable water for watering landscape when and where available. (Ord. 491, 2-21-
2008)
7-8-2: ADDITIONAL STAGES 1 - 3 RESTRICTIONS:
When deemed appropriate based on evaluation of projected water supply and
demand, the city council may move by resolution to implement additional
restrictions as outlined in stages 1 - 3.
Stage 1:
   (A)   No water customer shall apply water to impervious surfaces such as
streets, sidewalks, patios, decks, etc.
   (B)   Landscape watering using potable water two (2) days per week on
designated days:
      1.   City facilities are restricted to two (2) days a week.
      2.   Even numbered addresses: Tuesday and Saturday.
      3.   Odd numbered addresses: Wednesday and Sunday.
      4.   Premises with no street address, such as a median: Monday and
Friday.
Stage 2:
   (A)   No water customer shall apply water to impervious surfaces such as
streets, sidewalks, patios, decks, etc.
   (B)   Landscape irrigation one day a week:
      1.   City facilities are restricted to one day a week.
      2.   Even numbered addresses: Tuesday.
      3.   Odd numbered addresses: Friday.
      4.   Premises with no street address, such as a median: Monday.
Stage 3:
   (A)   No water customer shall apply water to impervious surfaces such as
streets, sidewalks, patios, decks, etc.
   (B)   Indoor use may be reduced by a percentage to be determined by the city
council.
   (C)   Landscape watering using potable water two (2) days per month on
designated days.
      1.   City facilities are restricted to one day a week during the first
and third weeks of the month.
      2.   Even numbered addresses: second and fourth Tuesday.
      3.   Odd numbered addresses: first and third Friday.
      4.   Premises with no street address, such as a median: second and fourth
Monday. (Ord. 491, 2-21-2008)
7-8-3: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Based upon evaluations of the expected yield and projected demands the
city council may impose additional restrictions on water use during any stage
including, but not limited to, any of the following:
      1.   No additional water connections to the system allowed - moratorium
on building permits.
      2.   Outdoor water prohibited except for large trees with trunks of at
least six inches (6") in diameter.
      3.   Operation of water features prohibited.
      4.   Filling or refilling of water features, pools and ponds prohibited.
(Ord. 491, 2-21-2008)
7-8-4: DURATION OF RESTRICTIONS:
The city shall conduct regular evaluations of the expected yield and projected
demands to determine whether it is necessary to continue the water use
restrictions. If water supply conditions warrant, restrictions may be either
downgraded or withdrawn subject to city council approval by resolution. (Ord.
491, 2-21-2008)
7-8-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Water customers may use water essential to protect the general public health,
safety or welfare. Irrigation systems may be operated at any time for
maintenance purposes (not to exceed 10 minutes per station). Customers may
apply for relief from watering schedules for purposes of establishing a new
lawn not to exceed three (3) months. (Ord. 491, 2-21-2008)
7-8-6: ALTERNATE WATER MANAGEMENT PLANS:
A water customer may request relief from applicable restrictions by filing an
alternative water management plan with the city of Wendell, public works
director. The city of Wendell will provide customers with the ability to design
water management alternatives that give customers flexibility in meeting the
restrictions while achieving maximum conservation goals. The city must give
approval to the plan, may require periodic reporting, and posted notice of
alternate water management plans. (Ord. 491, 2-21-2008)
7-8-7: VIOLATIONS AND FINES; APPEALS:
   (A)   Each water customer shall be responsible for compliance with this
chapter with respect to the water customer's premises and shall be responsible
for applicable fines for noncompliance with this chapter. In the event of an
alleged violation of this chapter, proof of the existence of a declared water
shortage and proof of any violation of any restriction set forth in this
chapter, together with proof that the violation originated at any water
customer's premises shall constitute a rebuttal presumption that the water
customer is responsible for the violation.
   (B)   Fines through stage 2:
      1.   First violation: Written warning.
      2.   Second violation: Written notice and add a forty dollar ($40.00)
fine to the water bill of the premises.
      3.   Third violation: Written notice and add an eighty dollar ($80.00)
fine to the water bill for the premises.
      4.   Fourth violation and subsequent violations: Written notice and add a
one hundred twenty dollar ($120.00) fine to the water bill for the premises.
   (C)   Fines through stage 3:
      1.   First violation: Written notice and add an eighty dollar ($80.00)
fine to the water bill for the premises.
      2.   Second violation: Written notice and add a one hundred sixty dollar
($160.00) fine to the water bill for the premises.
      3.   Third and subsequent violations: Written notice and add a two
hundred forty dollar ($240.00) fine to the water bill for the premises.
   (D)   Any fine assessed shall be added to the customer's water bill.
   (E)   Any appeal of a fine imposed may be appealed within fifteen (15) days
of the billing date through the city of Wendell public works director. Any
decision of the city of Wendell public works director may be appealed to the
city council within fifteen (15) days of the decision. Appeals must be written
and addressed to the city of Wendell water department.
   (F)   Written warning or notice shall be delivered in person to the
customer's premises by leaving it with a person at the premises, over the age
of eighteen (18) years, or posting on the front door if no one is present to
accept it.
   (G)   Any unpaid fines shall be applied to the property tax of the premises.
(Ord. 491, 2-21-2008)
TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Abandoned Vehicles, Equipment And Personal Property
8-1-2: Defined; Enumerated
8-1-3: Abatement Procedures
8-1-4: Penalty For Violation
8-1-1: ABANDONED VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONAL PROPERTY:
No person in charge of or in control of any premises, whether as owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, wrecked,
junked, discarded or otherwise nonoperating and unlicensed motor vehicle,
machinery, farm implement, equipment and/or personal property of any kind,
which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, to remain on such property longer than twenty eight (28) days,
unless such vehicle, equipment or other property, is maintained in an enclosed
building or so located within a fenced or screened enclosure of at least six
feet (6') in height, in accordance with, and as defined by, the zoning
ordinance and building codes of the city, such that the materials are not
readily visible from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
Allowing such materials to remain unenclosed or unscreened shall constitute a
nuisance. This section shall not apply with regard to any vehicle, equipment or
other personal property on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place, other than in a residential district, and operated in a lawful
manner, when the keeping or maintenance of such vehicle, equipment or other
damaged and abandoned personal property is necessary to the operation of such
business enterprise and is not in violation of other provisions of law. (Ord.
428, 6-26-2002)
8-1-2: DEFINED; ENUMERATED:
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance" is defined to mean any
condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is detrimental to
the property of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution
in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are
located. This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping or the depositing
on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the following:
   (A)   Useless lumber, junk, trash or other debris.
   (B)   Abandoned, inoperable, discarded or unused objects or equipment such
as automobiles, implements and/or equipment, machinery, appliances and personal
property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for
which it was manufactured, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or
containers.
   (C)   Any compost pile or liquid/semiliquid waste which is of such a nature
as to spread or harbor disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful gas, or
attract rodents, vermin or other disease carrying pests, animals or insects;
provided, that the presence of earthworms in a compost pile shall not
constitute a nuisance, nor shall a properly maintained garden compost facility.
   (D)   Keeping unsanitary matter on premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep or permit another to keep upon any premises deleterious or
septic material which causes adverse effects upon the occupancy or use of
neighboring lands. Such materials must generally be retained in containers or
vessels which deny access by humans, flies, insects, rodents and animals.
   (E)   All offensive and noxious weeds or plants, within the limits of the
city, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed, cut and
destroyed by the owner or agent of the ground or premises on which the same are
located. It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or person having charge of
any property within the city limits where offensive or noxious weeds or plants
are growing to remove, cut and/or destroy the same. This shall include all
rights of way abutting the property which they own, are an agent, or have
charge of. (Ord. 428, 6-26-2002)
8-1-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Prior to initiating prosecution for violation of this chapter, city
staff shall attempt to provide notice to the owner of the real property upon
which the nuisance is located. Additional notice shall be attempted to the
occupant/tenant or agent if one is known. Said notice shall describe the
location of the property as accurately as possible and shall specify the nature
of the nuisance and the time by which the nuisance must be abated. Said notice
shall be mailed to the owner, agent, person in charge of such property, if such
owner, agent or person in charge can be found. If an owner, agent or person in
charge cannot be found, then notice shall be provided by posting a notice in a
conspicuous place on the premises and mailing a copy of said notice by
certified mail to the owner or agent of the same at such owner's or agent's
last known address.
   (B)   The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lands upon
which a nuisance is located may thereafter store such nuisance vehicles,
equipment or materials into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used
for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits of the city, or
otherwise remove the vehicles, equipment or materials to a lawful storage
location outside the corporate limits of the city. If the nuisance consists of
weeds or other vegetative materials, it shall be removed and disposed of
lawfully so as to eliminate the fire hazard created and/or the risk of spread
of weed infestation.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not compromise or otherwise
adversely affect the applicability of provisions of Idaho law regarding the
designation of nuisances and their abatement. (Ord. 428, 6-26-2002)
8-1-4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   (A)   If the owners, tenants or occupants allow said nuisance to exist or
fail to abate the nuisance, they, and each of them, shall be guilty of an
infraction and upon being found liable therefor shall be subject to an
infraction penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that a violation
of this chapter exists may be charged as a separate infraction or misdemeanor
violation, as appropriate. Any nuisance which violates this chapter and which
constitutes an immediate hazard to the public health or which continues to
exist after a finding of guilt or liability in two (2) or more prior infraction
proceedings, shall constitute a misdemeanor subject to a fine of up to three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment for up to one hundred eighty (180)
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   In the event the property owner fails, refuses or neglects to abate
such nuisance as identified by the city for a period of more than thirty (30)
days; the city shall cause the same to be abated and such costs shall be placed
upon the tax rolls of the property owner pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-317.
(Ord. 428, 6-26-2002)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: City Right To Collect, License
8-2-4: Collection Prohibited By Unauthorized Persons
8-2-5: Vehicles Hauling Garbage
8-2-6: Discarding Garbage, Rubbish
8-2-7: Sweeping Debris Into Streets, Free Access To Alleys
8-2-8: Rules And Regulations
8-2-9: Garbage Containers Required; Specifications, Placement
8-2-10: Garbage Service Rates
8-2-11: Water Shut Off For Nonpayment
8-2-12: Civil Action To Collect
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the city acting
in its governmental capacity, for the protection and preservation of the
health, welfare, morals, safety and cleanliness of said city and all its
provisions shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of that purpose.
(Ord. 197, 12-21-1962)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
GARBAGE: Includes and means kitchen and table refuse and offal, swill and also
every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter, liquid or otherwise,
that attends the preparation, consumption, use, decay, cooking, dealing in or
storage of animal matter, meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits or vegetables
(saving and excepting that dead animals exceeding 10 pounds in weight and offal
of slaughterhouses are not included within the meaning of the word "garbage" as
herein defined). The word "garbage" does not include dishwater or wastewater.
All wet garbage shall be kept in separate containers not to exceed fifty (50)
pounds' gross weight.
RUBBISH: Includes and means ashes, broken crockery, broken bottles, broken
bricks, tin vessels, trimmings from lawns and flower gardens, including
shrubbery, pasteboard boxes, berry boxes, paper sacks, straw, packing
materials, shavings, discarded household utensils, but the term "rubbish" shall
not include broken or discarded stoves or furniture, broken or discarded
building materials, trees or any waste accumulated, other than heretofore
specified. The term "ashes" shall be held to include and mean the residue of
materials burned. This rubbish can be placed in boxes or cans provided no
container weighs more than fifty (50) pounds; gross. (Ord. 156, 7-7-1950)
8-2-3: CITY RIGHT TO COLLECT, LICENSE:
   (A)   The city, its duly authorized agents, contractors, servants, employees
or licensees shall have the exclusive right to gather and collect garbage and
rubbish within the city, and it shall be unlawful for any person, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, to collect or gather garbage and/or rubbish
within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, its agents
and employees, or a person holding a permit or license issued by the city for
such purpose, to collect or convey, through, over or upon any street or alley
within the city, any garbage. (Ord. 197, 12-21-1962)
8-2-4: COLLECTION PROHIBITED BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, its agents or
employees or a person holding a permit or license for such purpose, or having a
contract with the city for such purpose, to interfere in any manner with any
receptacle containing garbage or rubbish or any form of refuse, or to remove
any such receptacle from the location where the same was placed by the owner
thereof, or to remove any of the contents of such receptacle. (Ord. 197, 12-21-
1962)
8-2-5: VEHICLES HAULING GARBAGE:
Every vehicle used to cart or haul garbage or rubbish in, about, along, over or
upon any street, alley, highway or thoroughfare of the city, shall be fitted
with a good substantial box thereon, the sides and ends of which shall be not
less than twenty four inches (24") long, so tightly fitted and closely covered
with sufficient covering as to prevent the escape of any of the contents or
effluvia therefrom and so as to prevent such garbage or rubbish to be
scattered, thrown from or dropped onto or upon such street, alley, highway or
thoroughfare. (Ord. 156, 7-7-1950)
8-2-6: DISCARDING GARBAGE, RUBBISH:
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, hand out, drop, throw, cast
or discard any wastepaper, paper wrappings, sacks, cartons, boxes, discarded
wrapping paper, garbage or rubbish in, upon or about any street, alley,
sidewalk, avenue or public place, or in or upon any motor vehicle, or in open
spaces, or vacant lots, or in yards or stoops of privately owned premises in
the city; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful to distribute newspapers
capable of being entered in the mail as second class mail. (Ord. 197, 12-21-
1962)
8-2-7: SWEEPING DEBRIS INTO STREETS, FREE ACCESS TO ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep dirt, trash or rubbish from the
interior of any building in the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park cars or trucks or place any obstruction in alleys. Free access to all
alleys must be had for fire protection and garbage collection at all times.
(Ord. 197, 12-21-1962)
8-2-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall have the power to make such further rules or
regulations, including the designation of districts for pick up schedules, as
may be necessary to effectuate and facilitate the provisions hereof. (Ord. 197,
12-21-1962)
8-2-9: GARBAGE CONTAINERS REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS, PLACEMENT:
   (A)   Containers: The occupant or person in charge of each building,
residence or business housed in the city shall procure and keep on his
premises, when needed, one or more containers in which papers, trash and
similar materials shall be placed. Such garbage containers shall be constructed
of galvanized sheet metal or durable plastic, with tightfitting covers,
provided with two (2) handles and shall have a minimum capacity of three (3)
gallons each and a maximum capacity of thirty (30) gallons each; or such
garbage container may be a heavy duty garbage bag such as will not tear apart
upon being lifted, which garbage bag shall be properly closed. Said containers
shall not be in excess of fifty (50) pounds in weight when filled and shall be
of such size and structure that they can be reasonably loaded. Such garbage
cans and containers shall be placed and kept on the property of the occupant so
owning the same, except that on the day of the week when such garbage shall be
removed, the same shall be placed in the alley adjacent to the building,
residence or business house to be served. In all other cases, such garbage cans
and/or containers shall be placed on the street side of such building,
residence or business house so that they will be accessible to the contractor
in making collections.
   (B)   Open Outdoor Fires:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to have any open outdoor fires or to burn or
cause to be burned any garbage or trash, whether in containers or otherwise,
within the boundaries of the city limits, except for the following purposes and
upon the following conditions:
         (a)   Open outdoor fires used for the purpose of weed abatement along
fence lines, canal banks and ditch banks.
         (b)   Open outdoor fires used to dispose of tree leaves, yard
trimmings and tree limbs.
         (c)   Any other exceptions allowed by fire code.
         (d)   In any event no fires shall be allowed to burn past sunset or
prior to sunrise on any given day.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord.
470, 4-5-2007)
8-2-10: GARBAGE SERVICE RATES:
Every occupant or person in charge of any residence, building or business
house, whether such occupant be owner or tenant, shall pay for said service
such sums per month per water meter as may, from time to time, be fixed by
resolution of the city council. For convenience and as a matter of economy in
operation, bills for said service shall be submitted with the bills for service
charges of water and sewer and all three (3) of said service charges shall be
paid as a unit 1 . (Ord. 313, 8-14-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See sections
  7-3-11 and 7-4-5 of this code, sewer and water charges respectively.
8-2-11: WATER SHUT OFF FOR NONPAYMENT:
In the event any person fails, neglects or refuses to pay said three (3)
service charges or any one thereof, so billed as a unit, within thirty (30)
days of the mailing of such bills by the city, then the city may shut off and
discontinue service to such person for water, sewer and garbage collection, or
any one thereof. In that event such service shall remain disconnected and shut
off until such service charges are paid in full. (Ord. 197, 12-21-1962)
8-2-12: CIVIL ACTION TO COLLECT:
As an additional and concurrent method of enforcing and collecting said garbage
service charge, the city is hereby authorized and empowered to institute civil
action in the appropriate court for the collection of said charge as a civil
debt or obligation. (Ord. 197, 12-21-1962)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE HABITATION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Violations
8-3-4: Exceptions
8-3-5: Penalties
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to limit the use of recreational vehicles and
other nonpermanent structures for permanent human habitation because it is the
determination of the city council that their use in the city for permanent
human habitation is deleterious to the health, safety, and welfare not only of
the persons residing therein, but, additionally, of the public at large.
Portable heating devices, nonstandard electrical connections, a lack of
approved sanitary facilities, including, but not limited to, bathrooms with
toilets, sinks or showers or bathtubs and standard kitchen facilities, among
other facilities associated with safe places of permanent human habitation, all
lend themselves to unhealthful, unsanitary and hazardous living conditions, if
utilized for extended periods of time, occasioned in part because camper
vehicles and other nonpermanent structures are not intended for use as places
of permanent human habitation and do not adequately provide for the needs
associated with human habitation. (Ord. 518-2013, 1-17-2013)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
OCCUPY: The use of a camper vehicle for living, sleeping, dwelling,
housekeeping, business, residence, or other purposes associated with human
occupation or habitation, for any duration and whether or not occurring on an
overnight basis.
OWNER: Any person whose name appears on the public records of the city of
Wendell and county of Gooding, Idaho, as the owner of premises, whether under
deed, contract, bill of sale, or other means of conveyance.
PERSON: Natural person, partnerships, associations, and all other bodies,
corporate or public.
PREMISES: Any lot or parcel of land or real property of any nature, whether
improved or unimproved, including any building or portion thereof.
RV PARK: Any premises within the city of Wendell which has been permitted as a
tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying
sites for the location of camper vehicles and conforming to all zoning and
building codes and all codified requirements of the city of Wendell.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:
Aircraft: A general term applying to all manner of aircraft, whether impelled
by wind or mechanical devices, and which are designed for recreational or
vacation use. An aircraft when mounted upon a trailer shall be considered one
unit.
Camper: A separate vehicle designed for temporary human habitation and which
can be attached or detached from a pickup truck. When removed from the truck,
campers are called "unmounted campers". These campers are sometimes referred to
as "truck campers" and "overhead campers". Camper shells on pickup trucks are
excluded from this definition.
Camper Vehicle: Shall include all campers, camping trailers, motor homes and
travel trailers.
Camping Trailer: A type of trailer or trailer coach, the walls of which are so
constructed as to be collapsible and made out of either canvas or similar
cloth, or some form of rigid material such as fiberglass, plastic or metal. The
walls are collapsed while recreational vehicle is being towed or stored and are
raised or unfolded when the vehicle becomes temporary living quarters and is
not being towed.
Motor Home: A motorized vehicle that has a truck or motor van chassis primarily
designed to provide temporary living quarters for travel, camping, recreation
and vacation use.
Travel Trailer: A trailer without its own motive power, designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and vacation use. This definition
includes fifth wheelers.
Utility Trailer: A trailer without its own motive power designed and/or used
for the transportation of animals, goods, material, aircraft, watercraft and
all manner of motor vehicles.
Watercraft: A general term applying to all manner of watercraft, whether
impelled by wind, oars, or mechanical devices, and which are designed primarily
for recreation or vacation use. A watercraft when mounted upon a trailer shall
be considered one unit.
WITHIN THE CORPORATE CITY LIMITS OF WENDELL: Includes, but is not limited to,
residential neighborhoods, commercial and industrial areas, construction sites,
and privately owned property of any nature. (Ord. 518-2013, 1-17-2013)
8-3-3: VIOLATIONS:
Recreational vehicles shall not be used for dwelling, living, sleeping, or
business purposes within the city outside an approved RV park and it shall be
unlawful, within the corporate limits of the city, for any person to park or
allow to be parked any camper vehicle on any premises owned by any person,
whether that vehicle is occupied or unoccupied, except as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 518-2013, 1-17-2013)
8-3-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Temporary Guests: Family or friends of residents who come to visit may
temporarily occupy a camper vehicle situated on the resident's property, but
may only do so for a period not exceeding seven (7) continuous days, and shall
not, under any circumstance, exceed a total of twenty eight (28) days in a
single year. Absolutely no hookup will be allowed to the city of Wendell's
sewer system.
   (B)   Storage Purposes: One recreational vehicle (RV) of any size may be
stored:
      1.   Upon city right of way adjoining owner's property under following
regulations:
         (a)   Thirty feet (30') from any roadway intersection.
         (b)   Twenty feet (20') from any crosswalk.
         (c)   Fifteen feet (15') from any fire hydrant.
      2.   Additional recreational vehicles may be parked under the following
conditions:
         (a)   On the home premises of its owner in a driveway, in a side or
rear yard, or on an adjacent vacant lot owned by the owner of the recreational
vehicle if said recreational vehicle is located at least as far from the lot
lines as may be required by applicable zoning regulations.
         (b)   In an accessory private garage building on the owner's premises.
         (c)   On commercial or industrial premises of the owner, subject to
all zoning restrictions. No camper vehicle so stored or situated outside an RV
park shall be used or occupied for living, sleeping or business purposes.
   (C)   Previously Permitted: Camper vehicles that are located on private
property and which have heretofore been connected with the city water supply
and sanitary sewer system, under a permit granted by the city council or the
building inspector, are excepted from the provisions of this chapter for a
period of six (6) months from the effective date hereof. Such permits may be
extended for no more than a total time of eighteen (18) months. At the
expiration of such time full compliance shall be required.
   (D)   Camper Vehicles On Construction Sites: Occupied camper vehicles will
be allowed on construction sites, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Permits shall be applied for, and issued by Wendell City Hall
personnel and shall be renewable at the end of each six (6) month period (180
days) for a total period of no longer than eighteen (18) months.
      2.   Each permit must provide a site plan (section
5-14-2 of this code) including: a) make and model of the camper vehicle, b)
license plate identification, c) legal description of the property on which the
camper vehicle is to be located, d) name(s) and mailing address(es) and other
appropriate information.
      3.   Electrical permit issued by the state of Idaho, electrical bureau,
division of public safety must be presented to the city of Wendell prior to a
permit being issued allowing camper vehicle(s) on construction sites.
      4.   Paying a per camper vehicle permit fee and fire inspection fee as
set by city of Wendell fee and rate resolution, payable at the issuance of each
permit and at the time of renewal.
      5.   Obtaining and retaining sewer and water hookups for each permitted
camper vehicle under the terms provided for elsewhere in this code and
inspected by Wendell public works department.
      6.   Only construction workers may occupy permitted camper vehicles.
      7.   Sites must be kept clean of trash and litter.
      8.   Units may be ordered to be removed if legitimate written complaints
are received by the city of Wendell. If units are not removed upon such request
the city may have them removed, with costs assessed against the responsible
parties listed on the permit or, failing that, the property on which such
offending units were located.
      9.   Upon final removal of any such permitted camper vehicle the
responsible parties listed on the permit shall be responsible for capping all
city services and shall be inspected by the Wendell public works department.
(Ord. 518-2013, 1-17-2013)
8-3-5: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Warning: Violations of this chapter set forth under the terms of
section
8-3-3 of this chapter, unless excepted under the terms of the exceptions set
forth in section
8-3-4 of this chapter, shall result in the issuance by the city of Wendell
police department of a warning directed to the owner of the parcel of real
estate upon which said recreational vehicle is situated, informing that person
or persons of the need to cease and desist from allowing such use of the camper
vehicle or other nonpermanent structure for human habitation purposes.
   (B)   Fine: Any person who violates, disobeys, neglects, omits, tries
wilfully to circumvent the intent of this chapter, refuses to comply with this
chapter, or resists enforcement of any of its provisions more than fifteen (15)
days after having received a warning of such violation shall be subject to a
Wendell city ordinance violation fine in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00). Failure to cure an issued code and ordinance violation citation
within a time period of ten (10) days may result in additional fines and/or
penalties as provided herein.
   (C)   Additional Remedies: Instead of, or in addition to, the penalties or
relief provided above, the city of Wendell may take such other available legal
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this chapter. A
civil action may be commenced and pursued in the Gooding County court for the
purpose of preventing, abating, enjoining, restraining, stopping, or correcting
any violation of this chapter, including, but not limited to, an order
enjoining or preventing the siting and/or occupancy of a camper vehicle in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 518-2013, 1-17-2013)
TITLE 9
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Department Established, Members
9-1-2: Appointment Of Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, Fire Captains, Fire
Marshal; Duties
9-1-3: Oath Of Office
9-1-4: Inspection By Department
9-1-5: Department Equipment
9-1-6: Removal Of Combustible Materials
9-1-7: Police Subject To Fire Call
9-1-8: Fire Drills
9-1-9: Report To Council
9-1-10: Entering Limits Near Fire
9-1-11: Interference With Apparatus At Fire
9-1-12: Permission To Use Fire Apparatus
9-1-13: Obstructing Fire Hydrants
9-1-14: Driving Over Fire Hose
9-1-15: Drivers, Approach Of Fire Vehicles
9-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED, MEMBERS:
   (A)   There is hereby organized and established a volunteer fire department
for the city to be known as the fire department of the city of Wendell, Idaho.
   (B)   The number of active members of the fire department shall be not more
than thirty (30), nor less than ten (10), all of whom shall be over the age of
eighteen (18) years, and shall be a person of good physique, free from disease
and of good moral character; provided, that no more than twenty (20) of such
members obligated to pay domestic water bills to the city shall be admitted as
members of such department. (1977 Code)
9-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF FIRE CHIEF, ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF, FIRE CAPTAINS, FIRE
MARSHAL; DUTIES:
The fire chief, assistant fire chief and fire marshal shall be appointed by the
city council, and shall hold office until the expiration of the term of the
appointing power, unless sooner removed by the city council.
The fire captains shall be appointed in the manner as provided in the bylaws of
the fire department, and shall hold office during the pleasure of the fire
chief.
   (A)   Duties Of Chief: The fire chief shall have absolute control of the
fire department at all times, shall call meetings of the members and shall
direct or cause to be directed all improvements of the department and shall see
to it that they keep the apparatus and machinery under their care in proper
order and ready at all times for active duty, and shall supervise and direct
said department in fighting fires, or prevention of fires, and do all things
required to be done to safeguard the city against loss by fire.
   (B)   Duties Of Assistant Chief: It shall be the duty of the assistant fire
chief to attend any fire with the fire chief and assist him in the performance
of his duties, and in the absence of the fire chief, he shall perform the
duties of that office.
   (C)   Duties Of Fire Captains: It shall be the duty of the fire captains to
attend any fire with the fire chief and/or assistant fire chief and assist them
in the performance of their duties and in the absence of the fire chief and the
assistant fire chief, to perform the duties of those offices.
   (D)   Duties Of Fire Marshal: It shall be the duty of the fire marshal to
enforce all of the provisions of this code pertaining to fires and to perform
all fire inspections required by the provisions of this code, ordinances of the
county of Gooding, and statutes of the state of Idaho, and including the
building code, the life safety code (NFP 101) and fire code.
   (E)   Police Powers: When on active duty, the fire chief and assistant fire
chief shall each be vested with the authority of police officers of the city,
with authority to make arrests, and shall each likewise have such police
authority for the purpose of enforcing any ordinance of the city relating to
matters from the duties of that office. (Ord. 120, 3-1937; amd. 1977 Code)
9-1-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of their offices, the fire chief, assistant
fire chief, fire captains and fire marshal shall take and subscribe an oath to
support the constitution and laws of the state and the ordinances of the city,
and to faithfully perform the duties of their respective offices according to
the best of their ability. (Ord. 120, 3-1937; amd. 1977 Code)
9-1-4: INSPECTION BY DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of the fire chief or fire marshal to inspect or cause to
be inspected by the fire department, its officers or members, as often as may
be necessary, but not less than twice a year in the outlying districts, and
four (4) times a year in closely built portions of the city, all buildings,
premises and public thoroughfares, except the interior of private dwellings,
for the purposes of ascertaining any conditions liable to cause fire, or any
violations of regulations promulgated by the city, for the purpose of reducing
fire hazards. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-5: DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT:
The equipment of the fire department shall consist of the hose, motorized
equipment and the apparatus now owned by the city, and such additional
equipment as may hereafter be purchased by the city or acquired by the fire
department, together with the fire station and equipment in the nature of
fireplugs and fire hydrants. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-6: REMOVAL OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS:
It shall be the duty of the fire chief, the fire marshal and any police officer
of the city who shall find in any building or upon any premises any combustible
or explosive matter, dangerous accumulations, rubbish, wastepaper, boxes,
shavings, unnecessary accumulations or other inflammable material especially
liable to fire, to order and require the removal of such objectionable material
without delay. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-7: POLICE SUBJECT TO FIRE CALL:
The chief of police, night police and other police officials shall be subject
to duty and call at all fires and said police shall respond and assist in every
way they can in getting the apparatus to the fire and shall take charge and
protect any property needing their protection, and shall keep back the people
from getting in the way, or in any way interfering with the firefighters in the
discharge of their duties, and each of the said police officers shall be under
the orders of the fire chief during a fire. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-8: FIRE DRILLS:
The officers and members of the fire department shall hold fire drills at such
regular intervals as may be prescribed by resolution of the city council from
time to time, and for attending such drills and serving on such fire
department, they shall receive such compensation and be paid at such regular
intervals as may be prescribed by resolution of the city council from time to
time. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-9: REPORT TO COUNCIL:
It shall be the duty of the fire chief and fire marshal to submit complete
reports to the city council at least once each year, and at such other times as
the city council shall demand, showing dates and places of all fires since the
preceding report, the extent of losses suffered, and making recommendations
considered advisable to prevent future losses by fire. The fire chief and fire
marshal shall also report all delinquencies of any member of such department in
the performance of his duty. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-10: ENTERING LIMITS NEAR FIRE:
Whenever a fire shall occur in the city, the fire chief or acting fire chief is
hereby empowered, during the continuance of such fire, to prescribe the limits
within which it shall be unlawful for any persons to come, excepting members of
the fire department, the owners of the premises included in such limits, and
such other persons as may be specially admitted by the fire chief or the acting
fire chief. And it shall be unlawful for any persons other than those above
specified to enter within such limits at any time during the progress of a
fire. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-11: INTERFERENCE WITH APPARATUS AT FIRE:
It shall be unlawful for any person other than the members of the fire
department or police officers, without permission of the fire chief or acting
fire chief, to knowingly or wilfully handle, stand upon or otherwise interfere
with any fire apparatus while the same is being used to extinguish any fire in
the city, or to approach nearer than five hundred feet (500') to the building
on fire. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-12: PERMISSION TO USE FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, unless specially permitted so to do by the
fire chief, assistant fire chief, fire marshal or fire captain, to remove any
fire apparatus, equipment, tools or accessories from the place where same are
kept or to interfere with any fire hydrant, either by turning the water on or
off or attaching any hose, pipe or other connections thereto, or interfering
therewith in any manner whatsoever. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-13: OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to obstruct the view of any
fire hydrant or place any material or vehicle in front thereof or within
fifteen feet (15') of either side thereof. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-14: DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver or operator of any engine, motor car
or other vehicle to drive, haul or propel same on or across any of the hose
belonging to the city or the fire department, or to drive or leave such engine,
motor car or other vehicle on any street in such manner as to interfere with or
obstruct any of the fire apparatus or the workings thereof at a fire when an
alarm has been struck. (Ord. 120, 3-1937)
9-1-15: DRIVERS, APPROACH OF FIRE VEHICLES:
The driver of any vehicle within the city, upon the sounding of the fire alarm,
shall immediately stop said vehicle as near as practicable to the right hand
curb, and remain standing until the fire apparatus has passed. (Ord. 120, 3-
1937; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE LIMITS, REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Fire Limits Established
9-2-2: Remodeling, Alteration Of Buildings In Fire Limits
9-2-3: Building Permit Required
9-2-4: Moving Lumber, Buildings
9-2-5: Storing Combustible Materials
9-2-6: Penalty
9-2-1: FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The fire limits, of the city shall be that portion of the city defined,
determined and fixed as commercial and industrial zones pursuant to title 5 of
this code. (1977 Code)
   Beginning at the Northeast corner of Block 77;
   Thence west to the Northwest corner of Block 76;
   Thence south to the Southwest corner of Block 105;
   Thence east to the Southeast corner of Lot 18, Block 104;
   Thence north to the Southeast corner of Lot 21, Block 84;
   Thence east to the Southeast corner of Block 84;
   Thence north to the Northeast corner of Block 77, the point of beginning.
(Ord. 251, 4-12-1973)
9-2-2: REMODELING, ALTERATION OF BUILDINGS IN FIRE LIMITS:
No wooden or other building or structure not conforming to the requirements of
the building code of the city and already within the fire limits of the city
shall be remodeled, enlarged, altered, repaired, constructed or reconstructed
with combustible materials in such manner as to increase its height, size or
dimensions; provided, that ordinary deterioration and wear may be repaired, and
also that the building inspector may grant permission to lathe and plaster,
insulate or repair wooden and nonconforming buildings or structures with
noncombustible materials. If any wooden or nonconforming building or structure
within the fire limits suffers damage by fire, wind or other similar elements
to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of the then value of such building or
structure, then the same may not be repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed with any
type of material or under any circumstances, and the owner of such damaged
building or structure shall remove such remnants and debris, and the owner of
such property will be liable to the city for the reasonable costs of such
removal, and the city may file a lien against the land upon which said building
or structure was located. (Ord. 162, 8-14-1953; amd. 1977 Code)
9-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building or structure shall be constructed, built, remodeled, repaired,
altered or enlarged in the fire limits of the city without a written permit
first had and obtained from the fire marshal. Before such permit is issued,
plans and specifications therefor shall be submitted to and approved by the
fire marshal. Such plans and specifications must show and the fire marshal must
find that the proposed work is in conformity with the requirements of the
building codes of the city, and all amendments to and supplements of said
codes. Upon approval by the fire marshal, a permit shall issue and be signed by
the fire marshal, attested by the city clerk and bear the city seal, and such
permit shall be authority for the person to whom it is issued to proceed with
the work outlined in said plans and specifications. (Ord. 162, 8-14-1953; amd.
1977 Code)
9-2-4: MOVING LUMBER, BUILDINGS:
No lumber or frame buildings within the fire limits of the city shall be
removed to any other part of the fire limits, or from without the fire limits
into said fire limits. (Ord. 12, 4-20-1910)
9-2-5: STORING COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS:
No person shall, within said fire limits, keep any hay, straw, shavings, paper
or other like combustible material in a stack or pile, without having same
enclosed so as to protect it from flying sparks or fire. (Ord. 12, 4-20-1910)
9-2-6: PENALTY:
Whoever shall, in person or by another, erect any building which may be erected
within the fire limits of the city in violation of any of the provisions of the
building codes shall be liable to a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code, and if he shall permit the same to remain after receiving
ten (10) days' notice from the chief of police, fire chief or fire marshal to
remove same, he shall be liable to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
each day the same shall remain. (Ord. 12, 4-20-1910; amd. 1977 Code)
TITLE 10
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Assault And Battery
10-1-2: Concealed Weapons
10-1-3: Discharging Firearms, Air Guns
10-1-4: Disturbing Lawful Assemblages
10-1-5: Disturbing The Peace
10-1-6: Fighting
10-1-7: Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of Admission Fees
10-1-8: Gambling
10-1-9: House Of Prostitution
10-1-10: Indecent Acts, Language
10-1-11: Injuring Property
10-1-12: Liquor Consumption In Public Places
10-1-13: Solicitors, Peddlers, Hawkers, Itinerant Merchants And Transient
Vendors
10-1-13-1: Definitions
10-1-13-2: License Required
10-1-13-3: Applications
10-1-13-4: Investigation And Issuance; Contents Of License
10-1-13-5: Service Of Process
10-1-13-6: Bond
10-1-13-7: License Nontransferable
10-1-13-8: Expiration Of License
10-1-13-9: License Fees
10-1-13-10: Letting Of Private Property Restricted
10-1-13-11: Prohibited Acts
10-1-13-12: Right To Cancel Purchases
10-1-13-13: Appeal
10-1-13-14: Penalty
10-1-14: Playing Ball In Streets
10-1-15: Cigarettes Or Tobacco, Sale Of To Minors
10-1-16: Excessive Noise
10-1-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault and battery within the
limits of the city. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-2: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person not a peace officer to carry any slingshot,
brass knuckles, revolver, knife, stiletto or other concealed or deadly weapon,
unless the same be carried on the person in a conspicuous place or in plain
view, within the limits of the city. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-3: DISCHARGING FIREARMS, AIR GUNS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a peace officer in the
discharge of his duties to discharge any gun, revolver or pistol within the
limits of the city, except in the necessary defense of person or property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner, to use devices or
weapons commonly known as air guns, slingshots or flippers on the streets or
the sidewalks of the city. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-4: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to excite a disturbance or contention at a
public house, court, election or any lawful meeting of citizens or any person
to disturb a public assembly congregated for religious or other lawful purposes
within the limits of the city, by undue noises, or by any offensive, unbecoming
or indecent behavior. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-5: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a disturbance of the peace within
the limits of the city, by loud or unusual noise, noisy acclamation, offensive,
indecent or obscene language, tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by
threatening, quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-6: FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to engage in a fight within
the limits of the city. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-7: FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter any theater,
ballroom, lecture, concert or other place where admission fees are charged
without having first paid said admission fees or with intent to deprive the
owner or proprietor thereof of such fees. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910; amd. 1977 Code)
10-1-8: GAMBLING:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play or carry on, open or
cause to be opened, or to conduct either as owner, employee or lessee, whether
for hire or not, any games of faro, Monte, roulette, lasquenet, rouge et noir,
rudeo or slot machines for chance, or any games played with cards, dice or any
other device, or money, bank checks, chips, credit or any other representative
of value, within the limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any of the
games prohibited in subsection (A) of this section, to be played, conducted or
dealt in any house or room owned or rented by such person in whole or in part.
(Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-9: HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep a bawdy house, house of
ill fame, or house kept for the purpose of prostitution, within the corporate
limits of the city. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-10: INDECENT ACTS, LANGUAGE:
   (A)   Profanity: It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse another by
using insulting, slanderous or profane language within the limits of the city.
   (B)   Nudity, Indecent Exposure: It shall be unlawful for any person within
the limits of the city to appear in any public place, street, alley or park in
a state of nudity or in any indecent or lewd dress, or to make any indecent
exposures of his or her person, or exhibit or perform any indecent, immoral or
lewd action, or be guilty of any lewd or lascivious conduct. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-11: INJURING PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully injure, deface or destroy any
goods, chattels or valuable papers of another, or prepare any deadfall or dig
any pits or to arrange any trap to injure another person or property, to take
down, injure or remove any monument, street sign or any marks as a boundary of
any tract of land or city lots, or to destroy, deface or alter the marks of any
monuments or street signs or injure or destroy any fence, monument or street
signs or any shade or fruit trees, or any other kind of public property or
private property not belonging to himself, or to deface any sidewalks with
painted or printed handbills or signs, posters or other advertisements, within
the incorporated limits of the city. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-12: LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or cause to be consumed
any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place or building or at any
public gathering, within the limits of the city. Provided, however, that this
shall not apply to premises which hold a current and valid license to dispense
beer or intoxicating liquor or an event granted a catering permit, which may be
issued by the city pursuant to Idaho Code section 23-934A for consumption of
alcoholic beverages at the city park. A catering permit will only be granted in
conjunction with the granting of a completed special event application as may
be required by the City Council which shall be attached to a catering permit
application. A catering permit requires City Council approval, fourteen (14)
days prior to the event. "Public place", as defined in this section, includes
any place, building or conveyance, to which the public has or is permitted to
have access, and any place, highway, street, lane, park or place of public
resort or amusement, within the limits of the city.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), or imprisonment in the
city jail for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 228, 9-24-1970; amd. Ord. 538-2021, 7-15-2021)
10-1-13: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, HAWKERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT
VENDORS:
10-1-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
 
           Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, motor
           vehicle or any other type of conveyance, however propelled, drawn, pushed or
           moved, from place to place, from house to house or from street to street,
           carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, food or farm
PEDDLER:   products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales
           and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to
           place shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, vehicle, railroad car,
           or any other type of conveyance. The word "peddler" shall include the words
           "hauler" and "hucksters".
           Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot,
           motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to
           house or from street to street, taking or attempting to take, in person, orders
           for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature
SOLICITOR  whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in
OR         the future, whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such
CANVASSER: definitions shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person
           hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
           boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the
           city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
           delivery.
           Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee,
           whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of
           selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city and who, in
           furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any public or
           private place, building, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in a
           hotel, lodging house, apartment, shop or any street or other place within the
           city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either
           privately or at public auction.
           A "temporary business" is one which is expected to be in operation for six (6)
           months or less within the city. This definition shall not include nor be
           construed to include:
           (A)   Public or private auction for the disposal by an established business of
           its assets or an individual for items of personal and household use.
           (B)   Any person, partnership or corporation selling or dealing only with retail
           merchants within the city, and being exclusively wholesale sellers and dealers.
           (C)   Any religious or charitable corporation or organization engaging in any one
           or more of the above activities for strictly nonprofit purposes.
TRANSIENT  (D)   Any arts or crafts shows or fairs where the items for sale are exhibited by
MERCHANT,  the person producing the items; and, the exhibitor was invited by the sponsoring
ITINERANT  party; the names of participants are accumulated by the sponsoring party to be
MERCHANT   made available to the city council or clerk.
OR         (E)   Any sales pursuant to court order.
ITINERANT  (F)   The sale of farm or garden products by the persons producing such products.
VENDOR:    (G)   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
           engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper.
           (H)   Political groups seeking funds or memberships.
           (I)   Sales of Christmas trees and wreaths.
           The person, partnership or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from
           complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating
           temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
           conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of or in the
           name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
           Any person, partnership or corporation wishing to engage in any one or more of
           the activities described above, and not specifically excluded from the definition
           of the itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor as set forth above, may petition
           the city council and upon good cause shown, the city council may exempt the
           person, partnership or corporation from application of this chapter.
           Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person or business intending to conduct
           business continuously for at least one year in the city, or having conducted
           business in the city continuously for the previous year, and can provide proof by
           way of a written lease, contract or other proof satisfactory to the city clerk,
           shall be exempt from the application of this chapter. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
 
10-1-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant, itinerant
vendor, peddler or solicitor, as defined in section
10-1-13-1 of this chapter, to engage in such business within the city without
first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-3: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for licenses by solicitors and peddlers shall be made to the city
clerk, to his designee or to the chief of police or other applicable law
enforcement agency, and shall be sworn in writing and shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Name of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent address of applicant;
   (C)   Temporary address of applicant, if any;
   (D)   Idaho state sales tax license number and, if applicable, Idaho
corporation license number;
   (E)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be conducted and
the goods to be sold, and if the goods are farm or orchard products, a
statement as to the point of origin for the product;
   (F)   If the products are imported into the state from an area outside the
state, the person receiving the application may require a certificate that the
product is disease free, insect free, properly fumigated and will in no way
spread any disease, fungi, bacteria, insect or animal illnesses or diseases of
any kind;
   (G)   A statement as to whether the applicant is self-employed or working
for an employer;
   (H)   If the applicant is selling goods for another, a statement as to who
the owners of the goods are;
   (I)   A two inch by two-inch (2" x 2") photograph showing the head and
shoulders in a clear and distinguishable manner of the applicant and the person
selling, delivering, conveying, carrying, transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, food or like merchandise of the applicant or offering to perform
services in the present or future for applicant;
   (J)   A statement that in the event that the product causes any damage to
any resident of the city, the applicant acknowledges the jurisdiction of the
Idaho courts to resolve any disputes;
   (K)   The length of time for which the license requested shall be needed;
   (L)   A description of the vehicle to be used in the solicitation, peddling
or vending, together with the license number thereof;
   (M)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or applicant's employer
has been convicted of any crime in violation of any consumer protection laws or
of any peddlers' or solicitors' ordinances. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Investigation And Issuance: Upon receipt of the application, the chief
of police or other applicable law enforcement agency shall cause such
investigation of the applicant's business responsibility or moral character to
be made. The chief of police or other applicable law enforcement agency may
utilize such departments of the city, county or state as deemed appropriate in
the aid of the investigation. When the chief of police or other applicable law
enforcement agency requests a criminal history record check by the criminal
identification bureau of the department of law enforcement, State of Idaho, the
chief of police or other applicable law enforcement agency shall forward the
applicant's fingerprints to the criminal identification bureau for a statewide
criminal history check. As a result of the investigation, if the applicant's
character and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the
application shall be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the
character and business reputation appear to be satisfactory, the city clerk
shall so certify in writing and a license shall be issued if all of the
requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Record: The city clerk shall keep a full record in his or her office
of all licenses issued, and each such license shall contain the number of the
license, the date the same was issued, the nature of the business authorized to
be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of the
license, and the place where such business may be carried on under said
license, the name or names of the person or persons authorized to carry on the
same. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-5: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license herein provided for shall be issued for engaging in the
business of an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, such applicant shall file
with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk his
true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of
notice of process for and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters
connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said license,
which said instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that said
applicant for said license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon said agent. Said instrument shall also contain
recitals to the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees
that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so
made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the
person or persons applying for the license under this chapter, according to the
law of this or any other state, and waiving any claim or right of error by
reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon
service or process upon the city clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk
shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a
copy of said process. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-6: BOND:
Before any license, as provided by this chapter shall be issued for engaging in
a transient or itinerant business as defined in this chapter in the city, such
applicant shall file with the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) executed by the applicant, as principal,
and two (2) sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state of
Idaho; said bond to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the said
applicant shall comply fully with all the provisions of the ordinances of the
city and the statutes of the state of Idaho regulating and concerning the sale
of goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against
said applicant for any violation of said laws or statutes, or any of them
together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any
person or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception
practiced on any person or persons transacting such business with such
applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced
by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of
making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever,
printed, or circulated with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold
or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city
to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city
attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-7: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued or granted by the city shall in any manner be assignable or
transferable or authorize any person other than the one therein named to do
business or authorize any other business than is therein mentioned to be done
or authorize the transaction of such business at any other place than is
specified in the license. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire ninety
(90) days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed
therein. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-9: LICENSE FEES:
A license will be issued for a specified period and in accordance with the fee
schedule hereinafter enacted, as the same may be changed from time to time by
resolution of the city council. Payment for the licenses shall be made upon
filing of the application with the proper authority and shall be made in lawful
currency of the United States.
The city shall collect license fees in the amounts set forth below:
Auctioneers holding regular auctions at a specified location $100.00 per year
within the city limits
Circuses and carnivals                                       200.00 per day
Itinerant merchants, peddlers, agents, independent           15.00 per day
contractors, hawkers, hucksters, solicitors
Selling from motor vehicles, pickups, trailers, trucks or    25.00 per day
wagons
Sideshows or performances, whether human, animal or nonhuman 25.00 per day
Street stands                                                25.00 per day
Transient auctioneers or auctioneers holding nonrecurring    15.00 per day
sales
All other businesses not specified in this code              100.00 per year
 
By accepting a fee and issuing a license, the city does not assume any
liability for any actions or any conduct engaged in by the licensee. The city,
nor any of its employees, shall endorse any products or services sold by any
licensees and the city, employees of the city and any licensees shall not
represent to any person that the city has any interest in any business carried
on by the licensee. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-10: LETTING OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RESTRICTED:
No property owner, nor his agent or employee, shall sublet, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit his property, or property of which he is in charge, to be used
by an itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as herein defined, unless
specifically excluded from application of this chapter or unless the itinerant
vendor or itinerant merchant has obtained a license as provided herein. (Ord.
542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A licensee, or any person acting on behalf of a licensee, or any agent of a
licensee, shall not:
   (A)   Shout, make an outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound
device or musical instrument, including any loud speaking radio or sound
amplifying system, on any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places
of the city, or on any private premises within the city, where sound of
sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom, to be capable of being
plainly heard on the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places for
the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which
such licensee proposes to sell.
   (B)   Have any mechanical devices in human or animal form or otherwise
designed to create lights, sound or motion to attract passersby.
   (C)   Have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets, shall
not be permitted a stationary location and shall not be permitted to operate in
any congested area where licensee's operations might impede or inconvenience
the public. For purposes of enforcement of this chapter, the judgment of any
police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether or not an area is congested or the public is impeded or inconvenienced
by the presence of the licensee.
   (D)   Sell or offer for sale goods, wares, or merchandise from vehicles on
any of the public streets of the city. Licensees shall not be allowed to double
park or in any way impede the normal flow of traffic or create a hazard or a
nuisance upon any public roadway.
   (E)   Be allowed to solicit or peddle from sundown to nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M., or at any time when a sign has been clearly posted on a fence, driveway,
front, back or side yard, or doorway which clearly informs a licensee that
there shall be no solicitors or no peddlers, either using those words or in
words to that effect. Providing, however, that a licensee may call upon the
occupant of a residence at other times when he has expressed prior permission
from such occupant to do so.
   (F)   Make any representation that he or she is soliciting or peddling for
any nonprofit organization or for charitable or religious purposes if he or she
in any way shall personally benefit by the funds or properties solicited.
   (G)   Cast, throw, distribute, deposit, scatter, pass out, give away,
circulate or deliver any commercial or business handbills, dodgers, circulars,
or other advertising materials or devices to any residents or businesses, or
leave the same upon any porch, doorstep, entryway, vestibule or in any yard or
public hallway, or in any vacant lot or upon other private property in the
city, without first having obtained the expressed consent of the owner or
lessee, or without the written or expressed request of any adult resident or
occupant thereof.
   (H)   Make any false statement or claims as to the quality, value, origin,
condition, durability, or purpose as to any product.
   (I)   Make false representations as to any product which he is soliciting
for or peddling.
   (J)   No licensee shall distribute, sell, or hand out as a sample any
consumable food products which have not been properly approved by the state
health district, the South Central Public Health District, the federal trade
commission or any other state or federal agency which has jurisdiction as to
the quality or wholesomeness of any foodstuffs designed for human consumption.
(Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-12: RIGHT TO CANCEL PURCHASES:
Any person purchasing from any solicitor or peddler or salesman pursuant to any
home solicitation shall have three (3) business days from the day of sale to
cancel any sale or any security or any contract created during the consummation
of the sale. Any licensee, salesman, solicitor, or peddler shall have an
affirmative duty to inform any purchaser of that person's right of
cancellation. In the event of cancellation, the purchaser must make the product
available to the seller at the purchaser's residence in as good a condition as
the product was when it was received for a period of twenty (20) days after the
notice of cancellation. If the salesman does not retrieve the product within
twenty (20) days from the date of notice of cancellation, the purchaser may
retain or dispose of the products without any further obligation. If, however,
the purchaser fails to make the goods available to the seller during regular
business hours, or if the purchaser agrees to return the goods to the seller at
an agreed upon location and fails to do so, then the purchaser will remain
liable for performance of all of the obligations under the contract. To cancel
any transaction pursuant to this section, a purchaser must mail or deliver a
signed and dated copy of the cancellation notice to the seller at the seller's
place of business, not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the third
business day following the consummation of the sale. "Business days" are
defined as Monday through Friday from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. Notice of cancellation shall not be required to carry the specific
words "cancel or cancellation", but shall simply be worded in such a manner
that any reasonable person would be on notice that the transaction has been
absolutely and unequivocally canceled. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-13: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk in regard to the denial
of application for a license as provided for in this chapter or in connection
with the revocation of a license as herein provided, shall have the right to
appeal to the council of the city. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with
the council within fourteen (14) days after notice of the decision by the city
clerk has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written statement
setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The council shall set the time and
place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in this chapter for notice of
hearing on revocation. The order of this council on such appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-13-14: PENALTY:
Any person who shall do any act, or transact any business, exercise or engage
in or carry on, directly or indirectly as principal, agent or employee, within
the city limits of the city, any trade, business, occupation, vocation or
employment for which a license is required to be paid, without first obtaining
or procuring said license or any bonds required hereunder, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, may be fined an amount not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or sentenced to a period not to exceed six (6)
months in jail or any combination thereof. (Ord. 542-2021, - -)
10-1-14: PLAYING BALL IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw stones, play ball, marbles, tops
or other games on the streets or sidewalks of the city, whereby such streets or
sidewalks may be obstructed either to the inconvenience or endangerment of
travelers along such streets or sidewalks or the endangerment of property
adjacent thereto. (Ord. 9, 2-4-1910)
10-1-15: CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO, SALE OF TO MINORS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, any cigarettes,
tobacco, or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a
cigarette or to give or sell any cigarette papers to minors.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age
to buy, accept, or have in his or her possession any cigarette, cigar or
tobacco in any form or to buy, accept or have in his or her possession any
cigarette paper or other paper or wrapper intended for the wrapping of tobacco
in the form of a cigarette or to have in his or her possession any compounds of
tobacco used in the filling or makeup of cigarettes. (Ord. 326, 2-25-1982)
10-1-16: EXCESSIVE NOISE:
   (A)   Purpose: It is hereby declared that the provisions and prohibitions
hereinafter contained and enacted are in the necessity of the public interest
and that said provisions and prohibitions are enacted in pursuance of and for
the purpose of securing and promoting the public health, comfort, convenience,
safety, welfare, and the peace and quiet of the city of Wendell and its
inhabitants.
   (B)   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   CITY: Wendell, Idaho, or the area within the city limits of Wendell, Idaho.
   EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle belonging to a fire department,
firefighting association, or fire district, an ambulance, or motor vehicle
belonging to a federal, state, county or municipal law enforcement agency.
   EXCESSIVE NOISE: Any noise which due to its volume, its duration or its
location annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others within the limits of the city.
   PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, or entity having a legal
recognized existence, whether public or private.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof adapted or used and
intended for the overnight accommodation of persons. In the event the building
is used for multiple individual units (i.e., apartment, condominium, hotel,
motel, duplex, triplex, etc.) each individual unit shall be considered a
separate residence for the purpose of this section.
   SOUND TRUCK: A truck or other vehicle having one or more speakers, usually
situated on top, typically used for broadcasting political or commercial
messages.
   (C)   Excessive Noise Prohibited: Noise which due to its volume, its
duration, or its location disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of persons not voluntary listeners thereto is hereby
declared to be excessive and inimical to the welfare of the citizens of the
municipality. It is unlawful for any person to make, continue, cause to be
made, or allow to be made on any premises or any public place or public right
of way from any radio, CD player, tape player, musical instrument, phonograph,
or sound amplifier or similar device, any excessive loud, unnecessary or
unusual noise. Specifically prohibited is the playing, using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, any device for playing, producing,
or reproducing sound at a louder volume than is necessary for the hearing of
persons who are voluntary listeners on the premises, or in the building, room,
or chamber in which the sound is being played, produced, or reproduced.
Provided, however, that persons engaged in school related or sports related
promotional activities and lawful parades shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section for the duration of the activity.
   (D)   Excessive Noise From Vehicle Speakers And Similar Devices Prohibited:
It is unlawful to use or operate any vehicle commonly known as a "sound truck"
or other vehicle on or in which is mounted a loudspeaker and/or sound amplifier
which emits amplified sound broadcast to the public at large. It is unlawful to
use, operate, or permit to be used, played, or operated, radios, CD players,
tape players, phonographs, vehicle stereo systems, and similar devices mounted
in or on a vehicle loudly enough to disturb the peace, quiet, or comfort of
persons who are involuntarily subjected to the sound who are on or in premises
other than the vehicle. Sounds louder than necessary for the hearing of persons
in the vehicle are hereby deemed excessive. Provided, however, that emergency
vehicles and persons engaged in school related or sports related promotional
activities and lawful parades shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section for the duration of the activity.
   (E)   Exemptions: The following sounds are exempt from the provisions of
this section:
      1.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle or personnel when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of an emergency.
      2.   Airplanes and other FAA regulated aircraft.
      3.   Sounds caused by activities upon any outdoor municipal, school,
religious, or publicly owned property or facility, provided that such
activities have been authorized by the owner of such property or facility or
its agents.
      4.   Sounds caused by parades, fireworks displays, or any event for which
a permit for that type of activity is required and have been obtained from the
authorized governmental entity within such hours as may be imposed as condition
for the issuance of said permit.
      5.   Sounds caused by locomotives or other railroad equipment.
      6.   Sounds caused by burglar alarms that are not in violation of this
code.
      7.   Sounds caused by safety warning devices required by law.
      8.   Sounds caused by devices approved for use within the confines of the
particular zoning designation that the device is located or pursuant to a
conditional use permit (i.e., drive-through window speakers, car lot PA
systems, construction sites).
      9.   Dairy Days and Independence Day celebrations/events.
   (F)   Enforcement, Authority Granted:
      1.   Enforcement Officials: The Wendell police department, animal
control/ordinance officer or persons empowered to enforce the provisions of
this code shall be the enforcement officials for this section and are
authorized to issue citations for this section. These officials have the
authority to act on behalf of the city in investigating complaints, issuing
citations and taking other lawful actions as required to enforce the provisions
of this section. Upon his/her own observation of a violation without the
necessity of citizen complainant's signature on said citation, by signing the
citation, the officer or person is certifying that he has reasonable ground to
believe that the person cited committed the offense contrary to law.
      2.   Citizen Citation: A uniformed citation may also be signed by any
citizen or person in whose presence an alleged violation of this section
occurred and be witnessed by a peace officer or person empowered to enforce
this provision of this code whose name shall be endorsed on the citation,
allowing peace officer to cite offender with an ordinance violation citation
giving the offender opportunity to pay the fine to the Wendell city clerk, if
the ordinance violation citation is not taken care of within fourteen (14) days
of the issuance of the citation the citizen signed uniformed citation will be
turned over to the Wendell city/Gooding County prosecutor's office for
prosecution.
   (G)   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this section to:
         (a)   Fail to comply with any provision of this section, that is, to
do that which is described as unlawful or to violate the requirements
established by this section.
         (b)   Fail to comply with any lawful order given by any law
enforcement officer, unless such order is lawfully stayed or reversed.
      2.   Any person that is convicted or pleads guilty of violating any part
of this section shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the first offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the second offense within one year, and guilty of a misdemeanor for the third
and subsequent offenses within one year of the first offense and ordered to pay
a minimum fine of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to a maximum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and up to six (6) months in the county jail. (Ord.
513-2012, 5-17-2012)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Authorization
10-2-2: Purpose And Intent
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-4: Violations
10-2-5: Keeping Of Wild Or Exotic Animals
10-2-6: Keeping Of Domestic Animals; Limits
10-2-7: Kennels Prohibited
10-2-8: Caring For Animals
10-2-9: Sanitation
10-2-10: Cruelty To Animals
10-2-11: Restraint And Confinement; Generally
10-2-12: Dogs In City Parks
10-2-13: Restraint Of Guard Dogs
10-2-14: Animal Bites; Report Notice
10-2-15: Animal Bites; Quarantine Required
10-2-16: Possession And Disposition Of Infected Animals
10-2-17: Vicious Animal; Complaint
10-2-18: Vicious Animal; Appeal
10-2-19: Viciousness Guidelines And Standards
10-2-20: Vicious Animals; Confinement And Supervision
10-2-21: Dangerous Or Nuisance Animals
10-2-22: Subsequent Attack
10-2-23: Return Of Animal To Owner
10-2-24: Licensing Of Dogs
10-2-25: License Tags; Identification
10-2-26: Impoundment
10-2-27: Notice To Owner And Redemption
10-2-28: Enforcement; Interference Prohibited; Authority Granted
10-2-29: Violations And Penalties
10-2-1: AUTHORIZATION:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the general police power and the authority
granted to cities by article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution and Idaho
Code section 50-319. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and the
general welfare of the residents of the city of Wendell and to foster the
humane treatment of animals by regulating the care and control of animals
within the city. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words, terms, and phrases, and their
derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any live creature, either domestic or wild, except humans or plants.
Animal includes fowl and reptiles, but shall exclude fish.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any employee or agent of the city, designated by the
mayor or city administrator to administer and enforce the licensing, inspection
and compliance requirements established by this chapter.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases and
injuries.
ANIMAL NUISANCE: Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or owning
of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of, an animal or animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated for the temporary care, confinement and
detention of animals and for the humane euthanizing and other disposition of
animals or any facility authorized by the mayor or his designee to impound,
confine, detain, care for or destroy any animal.
AT LARGE ANIMAL: An animal, excluding cats, that is off the premises of its
owner, or if on the premises of its owner or of another, with permission, is
not on a leash or otherwise suitably contained on the premises such that it is
under the immediate control of a person physically capable of restraining the
animal.
CRUELTY: Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide proper
drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a sanitary and safe
living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in a sufficient
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused,
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting, "cruelty" shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
DISPOSITION: Adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary custodianship or
placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal. "Disposition"
includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, pigs, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, nonpoisonous snakes less than three feet (3') in length,
pigeons, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits, pheasants,
and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in confinement.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, caiman, raccoon, skunk,
fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, nonpoisonous snakes more than three
feet (3') in length, members of the feline species other than domestic cat
(Felis domesticus), member of the canine species other than domestic dog (Canis
familiaris) or any other animal that by virtue of strength or inherent
temperament or disposition would require a standard of care and control greater
than that required for customary household pets sold by commercial pet shops or
domestic farm animals.
GUARD OR ATTACK DOG: A dog trained to attack on command or to protect persons
or property.
IMPOUNDMENT: The taking into custody of an animal by any law enforcement
officer, animal control officer, or any authorized representative thereof.
KENNEL: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or where three (3) or
more dogs, six (6) months or older, are maintained, harbored, possessed,
boarded, bred, trained or cared for.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong material designed to fasten over the
mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from barking or biting.
OWNER: Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights
to, any animal covered by this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered by any person or if the person purported to
be harboring claims to have custody or responsibility for the care of any
animal.
SANITARY: A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the possibility
of disease transmission and not producing adverse health or sensory conditions
for adjoining property owners.
UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal is secured by a leash or lead under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal, or securely enclosed
within the real property limits of the owner's premises.
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that attacks, bites, or physically
injures human beings, domestic animals, or livestock without adequate
provocation, or which, because of temperament or training, has a known
propensity to attack, bite, or physically injure human beings, domestic
animals, or livestock. Any wild animal or any animal that without adequate
provocation has bitten or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima
facie presumed vicious or dangerous.
WILD ANIMAL: Any live, nonhuman primate, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or
any other warm blooded animal that can normally be found in the wild state. The
term "wild animal" does not include domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with
wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or
margays), farm animals, rodents, any hybrid animal that is part wild, and
captive bred species of common cage birds. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-4: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property
located within the corporate limits of the city when the keeping of such
animal, or the manner thereof, violates the provisions of this chapter, or when
the owner neglects a duty established by this chapter or carries out conduct
which this chapter labels as unlawful, or engages in activities, actions or
behavior which violates a rule of conduct or requirement of this chapter or
which creates a menace to public health or safety so as to create a nuisance to
neighboring property owners or the public at large.
   (B)   Behavior and/or conditions which violate this chapter shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or
health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights
of citizens, other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property;
      2.   Any animal other than domestic cats found running at large;
      3.   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any property
other than that of its owner, except for horses being ridden on a designated
equestrian trail;
      4.   Any animal that makes disturbing or grunting noises, including, but
not limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other
utterances which cause annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to reasonable
neighbors or reasonable others in close proximity to the premises where the
animal is kept or harbored;
      5.   Any animal, that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored,
including neglect on the part of the owner to maintain, clean or otherwise
eliminate the waste which results from the containment of an animal;
      6.   Any animal in heat (estrus) that is not confined so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals;
      7.   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks, bites, menaces or otherwise interferes
with the freedom or movement of persons in a public right of way;
      8.   Any animal that chases motor vehicles on a public right of way;
      9.   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
      10.   Any owner or harborer of animals who causes or allows conditions
offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by virtue of the
number of animals maintained at a single residence or premises or because of
the inadequacy of the facilities. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-5: KEEPING OF WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor, or permit at large any wild or
exotic animal without the express written authorization of the Wendell city
council. Such authorization may be given only if it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the council that the animal will not constitute a threat to
public health or safety. The city council may conduct a public hearing to
obtain the opinions of adjoining residents and property owners when considering
such requests. The city council may charge an applicant for such authorization
an appropriate fee to recover the authorization processing costs incurred by
the city. Public educational institutions shall be exempt from the foregoing
authorization requirement. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-6: KEEPING OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS; LIMITS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any household to own, harbor, or possess more
domestic animals than authorized by this section or not in accordance with
limitations and licensing requirements established by this chapter. The
following domestic animals are allowed:
      1.   Dogs and cats, not exceeding the number limitations as set forth in
subsection (C) of this section.
      2.   Rabbit, guinea pig, hamster, gerbil, frog, ferret, mouse, rat, snake
or bird (except fowl, pigeons, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys) kept for the
sole purpose of an indoor family pet or for educational purposes at an
educational institution. It shall be the duty of all persons owning or
harboring such animals to keep and maintain such animals in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      3.   (a)   Rabbits, cattle, horses, goats, sheep, chickens, ducks and
geese may be kept on premises containing a minimum of three-fourths (3/4) acre
of securely fenced, irrigated open space, exclusive of a home site, and
containing at least one acre in total, maintained in compliance with this
chapter. Said fenced area shall be irrigated during the growing season to
sustain vegetation. The number of listed animals allowed on the original one
acre parcel and per acre on each succeeding acre of contiguous site which is
securely fenced and irrigated shall be as follows:
 
Cattle                       2
Chickens, ducks and/or geese 10
Goats and/or sheep           4
Horses or ponies             2
Rabbits                      10
 
         (b)   Owners of property less than the minimum premises size may
possess chickens, ducks, geese, and rabbits as outlined in subsection (A)3(a)
above. Property owners will be required to file a domestic animal registration
form with the Animal Control Officer within thirty (30) days of possession. It
will be the property owner’s responsibility to keep the premises free from
nuisance to the neighboring property owners or the general public.
            (1)   Owners shall file a domestic animal registration form within
thirty (30) days of ownership, which will include a list of the species and
number of animals kept on the property. The property may be subject to
inspection by the Animal Control Officer prior to registration approval.
            (2)   Domestic animal registration forms will be kept on file for
one year, and owners will be responsible to renew registration by January 31
every year after.
            (3)   If the city determines that the keeping of the animals is a
nuisance, the city shall give to the owner of the property thirty (30) days'
written notice to cure the nuisance. If the property owner does not cure the
nuisance within the thirty (30) days, the property owner shall be required to
bring the property into compliance with the limitations of subsection (A)3(a)
above.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any pigs,
hogs or roosters within the corporate limits of the city of Wendell.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all persons owning or harboring such animals
to keep them in secure confinement to prevent them from roaming onto adjacent
lands and to maintain such animals, and the grounds upon, and facilities
within, which they are housed, in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any household in a multi-family dwelling
housing unit to keep more than three (3) permitted animals as defined by
subsections (A)1 and (A)2 of this section. Each household in a detached single-
family dwelling shall keep no more than seven (7) animals permitted pursuant to
subsections (A)1 and (A)2 of this section, but not more than three (3) of any
species shall be allowed within such limitation; except that a litter of pups,
kittens or other young animals may be kept for a period of time not exceeding
five (5) months from birth. The restrictions of this subsection shall not apply
to any commercial establishment where such animals are legally kept for
breeding, sale, sporting purposes, or boarding. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012; amd.
Ord. 544-2022, 7- -2022)
10-2-7: KENNELS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Definition: As used in this section, except where the context
indicates otherwise, the following shall mean "kennel": A kennel shall be
construed to include any establishment possessing and/or owning more than three
(3) adult dogs for raising, training, boarding or selling of dogs, for hire or
profit.
   (B)   Prohibition: Kennels shall not be allowed within the incorporated
limits of the city of Wendell. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
or maintain a "kennel" as defined herein.
   (C)   Exception: Animal hospitals/clinics maintained by a veterinarian
licensed by the state of Idaho as part of the practice of veterinary medicine,
shall not be considered kennels. Animal rescue organizations and dog grooming
businesses with overnight boarding may also be exempt only upon prior approval
of the Wendell city council.
   (D)   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be punishable under the
terms of this chapter. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-8: CARING FOR ANIMALS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal to
refuse or fail to provide such animal with sufficient wholesome and nutritious
food, water, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, humane care and
treatment, or to unnecessarily expose any such animal to intolerably hot,
stormy, cold or inclement weather without adequate shelter.
   (B)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall abandon such animal on any
street, road, highway or public place, or on private property when not in the
care of another responsible person. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-9: SANITATION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and no owner or custodian of any animal shall
allow the owner's/custodian's animal to soil, defile or defecate on any public
property, street, sidewalk, public way, public play area or upon private
property other than that which is exclusively owned by the animal owner, unless
such owner or custodian immediately removes and disposes of all feces deposited
by such animal by the following method, except for horses being ridden on a
designated equestrian trail:
      1.   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and removal of such bag or container
to a waste disposal container lawfully available to the owner for sanitary
disposal of waste as permitted by law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and no person owning, harboring or keeping an
animal within the city shall permit any waste matter from the animal to collect
and remain on the property of the owner or custodian, or on the property of
others so as to cause or create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or
offensive living condition on the owner's or custodian's property, or upon the
abutting or nearby property of others.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and no person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any animal shall cause or allow the existence or maintenance of
unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or number
of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of the
facilities. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to strike, beat, abuse, or
intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or otherwise engage in any
act to cause or inflict unnecessary pain, injury, suffering or death to such
animal; except that reasonable force may be used to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals.
   (B)   No person, except a licensed veterinarian, or animal control officer
(for humanitarian purposes) shall administer poison to any animal, or knowingly
leave any poisonous or harmful substance of any kind or ground glass in any
place with the intent to injure any animal. The provisions of this section are
not applicable to licensed exterminators using poisons as part of a pest
control program or the use of commercial insecticides and rodent baits used to
control insects and/or wild rodents. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-11: RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT; GENERALLY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal, except cats, to fail
to keep such animal under restraint or permit such animal to run at large upon
the streets and public ways of the city or upon private property without
consent of the owner or present occupant. It shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section when an animal is found by an animal control officer
or law enforcement officer while it is away from its owner (or responsible
person).
   (B)   Any animal, while on a street, sidewalk, public way, or other public
space, or upon private property without the consent of the owner, shall be
secured by a leash or chain of sufficient tensile strength to restrain the
particular animal and be controlled by a person of sufficient age and strength
to control the animal. This shall not apply to animals prescribed by a doctor
for medical reasons or other properly trained assist dogs.
   (C)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care
and control of such animal to prevent the same from becoming a private or
public nuisance.
   (D)   Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a building or other
enclosed area in such a manner that such female animal cannot come into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-12: DOGS IN CITY PARKS:
   (A)   During Wendell Dairy Days and Independence Day celebrations each year
it shall be unlawful for any person to take or allow a dog whether it is on a
leash or not upon the premises of the city park located on East Main Street
between East Avenue A and 1st Avenue East.
   (B)   The city council may specify additional times when it is unlawful for
a person to take or allow a dog whether it is on a leash or not upon the
premises of a particular park.
   (C)   The prohibition in this section will not apply to a service dog needed
to assist an individual with a disability or to a dog used by a police officer
in the line of duty.
   (D)   Vendors or others with special circumstances may apply to the city
clerk for an exemption from this section. The exemption may be granted upon
conditions being imposed for the protection of the public. If an exemption is
granted, a certificate shall be given by the city clerk stating the exemption
and its conditions.
   (E)   During Wendell Dairy Days and Independence Day celebrations and
whenever dogs are not allowed in a city park for a particular period, the park
shall be conspicuously posted with notices that no dogs are allowed in the city
park and that a violation of the prohibition is a misdemeanor.
   (F)   City police officers are authorized to enforce this section and to
eject from a city park any person violating this section.
   (G)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-13: RESTRAINT OF GUARD DOGS:
   (A)   Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep such dog confined in a
building, compartment or other enclosure. Any such enclosure shall be
completely surrounded by a fence at least six feet (6') in height and shall be
topped with an anticlimbing device to prevent the animal from exiting the top
of the enclosure.
   (B)   Such areas of confinement shall all have gates and entrances thereto
securely closed and locked, and all fences shall be properly maintained and
escapeproof. Such premises shall be clearly posted to warn of the presence of
guard dogs.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-14: ANIMAL BITES; REPORT NOTICE:
   (A)   Any person owning, possessing or harboring any animal that bites any
person, any person bitten by such animal, or any physician attending such,
shall immediately report the same to the animal control officer or law
enforcement officer, but in no case longer than within eight (8) hours of the
time of the bite or of learning of the bite, giving his/her full name, age, and
address, the circumstances surrounding the bite and the extent of the bite, the
medical treatment given and the name and address of the owner or person having
custody or possession of the animal. The owner of the animal in question shall
release, to the animal control officer or law enforcement officer upon request,
all information about the animal needed to complete the investigation. This
section shall not apply to veterinarians that are bitten while providing
veterinarian services to an animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person having knowledge of the existence
of an animal apparently afflicted with rabies to report immediately to the
animal control officer the existence and description of such animal, the place
where sent, the name of the owner or persons having custody of the animal, if
known, and the symptoms suggesting rabies. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-15: ANIMAL BITES; QUARANTINE REQUIRED:
No person owning or having custody or possession of any animal shall fail,
refuse or neglect to isolate and quarantine an animal that has bitten a human
or other animal for at least ten (10) days in such manner as may be specified
by the animal control officer or a law enforcement officer or for such period
and in such manner as may otherwise be required by a public official with
lawful authority. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-16: POSSESSION AND DISPOSITION OF INFECTED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal to keep such animal if it is
known to have a contagious disease unless the animal is under the current
treatment of a licensed veterinarian. If any animal impounded under the
provisions of this chapter is found to be suffering from rabies or is inflicted
with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease, it shall not
be released. The animal control officer may order that an incurably contagious
or harmful animal be destroyed, subject to appeal to the city mayor. An owner
wishing to appeal the order of the animal control officer must file a written
appeal with the city clerk within forty eight (48) hours of the order being
served on the owner. The city mayor, or the mayor's designee, shall hear the
appeal within three (3) business days of a timely appeal. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-
2012)
10-2-17: VICIOUS ANIMAL; COMPLAINT:
Any person reasonably apprehensive over the safety of his person, family or
property because of the threatening, predatory, menacing, destructive or
vicious actions of any animal may make a complaint to the animal control
officer providing such information as the animal control officer requires. Such
proceedings may also be initiated by an animal control officer upon information
developed in the course of his duties. The animal control officer, after
investigation and consultation with the owner or custodian, and upon finding
that there is good cause to believe that an animal poses a threat of injury to
persons, animals or property, may declare such animal vicious. The owner of
such animal shall immediately be notified in writing of the declaration and
shall immediately thereafter maintain said animal in an enclosed cage or other
secure enclosure as required by this chapter or by the lawful directives of the
animal control officer. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-18: VICIOUS ANIMAL; APPEAL:
Any owner aggrieved by the classification of his animal as vicious, may
request, in writing, a hearing before the city council at the next regularly
scheduled meeting at which the appeal request may be accommodated. The request
for appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the
date on the declaration of the animal as vicious. Notice of any such appeal
hearing shall be provided by mail or personal delivery to any complaining party
or adjoining property owner at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the
appeal hearing. Subject to procedural rulings by the mayor, any appealing
party, as may those opposing such appeal, may present witnesses, evidence, and
argument in support of the appeal, and the council shall by a vote of the
majority of the members present either affirm or reverse the findings of the
animal control officer. The mayor may establish time limits and procedural
standards for presentation of any such appeal. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-19: VICIOUSNESS GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS:
   (A)   In determining whether or not an animal is vicious, the animal control
officer shall be guided by the following:
      1.   Whether or not the animal has bitten or attempted to bite any person
or persons;
      2.   Extraneous circumstances surrounding the occasion indicating the
temper or potential ferocity of the subject animal; or
      3.   Its general menace to the public or to specific individuals.
      4.   The potential for the animal to attack or menace again.
      5.   The record or history of compliance with animal regulations by the
animal's owner.
      6.   The propensity of the breed of animal, according to documented
authority, to display aggressive or vicious characteristics.
   (B)   These provisions shall apply to dogs even though the dog in question
has been vaccinated and licensed as required by this chapter. (Ord. 512-2012,
5-17-2012)
10-2-20: VICIOUS ANIMALS; CONFINEMENT AND SUPERVISION:
   (A)   Every animal declared vicious shall be confined by its owner or
authorized agent of its owner within a building or secure enclosure which
complies with this chapter. The secure pen or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides, or in the alternative to a secure top,
the sides must be of such height that the enclosed animal could not, under any
foreseeable circumstances in the opinion of the animal control officer, escape
by jumping or otherwise. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the
sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot (1'),
or be otherwise designed to prevent any possibility of escape by digging by the
animal. All such pens, enclosures or structures must be adequately lighted, be
kept clean and in sanitary condition and comply in all respects with applicable
zoning and building codes.
   (B)   A vicious animal may be temporarily allowed out of said secure
enclosure if such freedom from confinement occurs when accompanied at all times
by a person large and strong enough to control the animal and if securely
muzzled. Every person harboring a vicious animal is charged with an affirmative
duty to confine the animal in such a way that children, other than those of the
owner, do not have access to such animal and that the animal cannot access
others, either adults or children. The pen, enclosure or structure shall be
locked and shall have displayed in a prominent place a clearly visible sign, at
least eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size, in at
least two (2) conspicuous locations on the property, indicating that there is a
vicious animal on the premises. The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer
or permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the owner unless the animal
is caged or securely muzzled and restrained by a chain or leash not more than
three feet (3') in length, and under the physical restraint of a person large
enough and strong enough to control the animal. The muzzle shall be made in a
manner that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or animal.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner of a declared vicious animal to
furnish the animal control officer or law enforcement officer with the
residence location of said animal unless or until the vicious designation is
removed, even if such location is not within the city of Wendell.
   (D)   The owner of an animal declared vicious pursuant to this chapter must
secure and maintain general liability insurance, in an amount of not less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), which insures against the liabilities
which derive from custody of the vicious animal. Proof of this insurance shall
be displayed to any animal control officer or law enforcement officer upon
demand. Said insurance shall be obtained within ten (10) days from the date
that the animal is declared vicious. Noncompliance with the requirements of
this section by any owner of an animal designated as vicious shall constitute a
violation of this chapter subject to all penalties or methods of enforcement
authorized hereby.
   (E)   The owner of an animal declared vicious pursuant to this chapter shall
have a microchip inserted into the animal and include in the information
associated with that microchip that the animal has been declared vicious. The
information regarding the declaration of the animal as a vicious animal shall
not be removed or altered until the designation is removed by the city. (Ord.
512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-21: DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE ANIMALS:
Any animal which has been at large in excess of two (2) times within any twelve
(12) month period or which has been at large and has proven menacing or
threatening when at large may be declared a nuisance or dangerous, as
appropriate, by the animal control officer. An animal may be designated as
dangerous even though it has not behaved in a manner severe enough to warrant
designation as a vicious animal. Upon making such a declaration, the animal
control officer may prescribe the actions which the animal owner must take to
abate the nuisance or to protect the public from the menacing characteristics
of an animal so designated. Such restrictions may include additional fencing,
security measures, repair of containment facilities, additional supervision or
other measures intended to address the nuisance or danger involved. Such
designation may be applied for a certain designated time frame such that the
restrictions serve as a probation for the animal or animal owner in question.
Violation of any restrictions set forth in a written order of the animal
control officer pursuant to this section shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, subject to all penalties and enforcement measures authorized hereby.
Upon petition and demonstration of compliance with applicable requirements, the
animal control officer may revise the designation of a vicious animal to
nuisance or dangerous status if the animal control officer believes that such
designation will fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Any decision concerning
classification of an animal as a nuisance or dangerous may be appealed by the
animal owner in accord with the procedures established in this chapter
regarding vicious animals. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-22: SUBSEQUENT ATTACK:
Should any animal attack or bite a person or another animal, after the owner or
harborer of such animal has been notified that the animal has been declared
vicious, dangerous or nuisance, such animal shall be impounded, held for
observation and shall not be returned to its owner until the animal control
officer can be assured that the insecurity which allowed the animal to go free
has been remedied and will remain so. If any declared vicious animal is found
at large and cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such animal may be
summarily destroyed by any law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
Failure to maintain security for vicious, dangerous or nuisance animals shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-23: RETURN OF ANIMAL TO OWNER:
If the name of the owner or custodian of an animal found at large is known or
can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the animal control officer may
attempt contact with such owner and advise the owner of the location of the
animal and attempt to make arrangements to return the animal. If the animal
owner is not available, the animal control officer may provide written notice
to the registered owner explaining who the owner must contact to reclaim the
animal. The officer may remove the animal to the nearest shelter that will
accept the animal. The ultimate responsibility for locating an impounded animal
is the owner's. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-24: LICENSING OF DOGS:
   (A)   Annual License Required: No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog
over the age of six (6) months within the city unless such dog is licensed as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Application: Application for such license shall be made by the owner
at Wendell City Hall, or such other place designated by the city, on a form to
be provided by the city within ten (10) days after acquiring any dog over six
(6) months of age or within ten (10) days after a dog becomes six (6) months of
age; provided that any owner moving to the city for the purposes of
establishing residence or becoming a resident as a result of any annexation,
and otherwise required to obtain a license, shall have until thirty (30) days
after establishing residence to obtain such license.
   (C)   Proof Of Rabies Vaccination Required: All owners applying for a
license must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the
animal for which the license is being obtained has been inoculated against
rabies within the last two (2) years.
   (D)   Proof Of Sterilization: Any owner claiming that his dog has been
spayed or neutered must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority
that the operation has been performed.
   (E)   Payment Of License Fee: A license fee shall be paid to the city of
Wendell, or the entity designated by the city to license dogs on behalf of the
city, at the time of making application. The license fee for dogs shall be
established by the city council by resolution. Such fee may be different
depending upon the altered status or other relevant characteristics of the
animal.
   (F)   Exemption From License Fee: License fees shall not be required for
seeing eye dogs, dogs prescribed by a doctor for medical reasons, government
police dogs or dogs belonging to a nonresident of the city (which are licensed
elsewhere) and kept within the boundaries of the city for not longer than
thirty (30) days; provided that all dogs not subject to payment of the license
fee shall at the time of entry into the city be properly vaccinated against
rabies, and while kept within the city, meet all other requirements of this
chapter. Any owner claiming any of these exemptions has the burden of proving
to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the dog in question is
entitled to such exemption.
   (G)   Penalties: Any owner of a dog over the age of six (6) months who fails
to obtain a license within the time period specified in this chapter shall be
subject to prosecution for violation of this chapter as otherwise provided
herein. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-25: LICENSE TAGS; IDENTIFICATION:
   (A)   Upon payment and acceptance of the license fee, a durable license tag,
stamped with an identification number for the animal for which the license has
been obtained will be issued. Any license issued for the keeping of a dog shall
take effect on the date of issuance and shall be valid for the period of time
paid for and shown on the receipt issued by the licensing authority. Every dog
for which the owner is required to obtain a license must wear a valid license
tag at all times when the animal is off the premises of its owner.
   (B)   No person may use a license for any animal other than the animal for
which the license was issued. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove
from the neck of any dog the license tag issued pursuant to this section or to
alter such tag in any manner.
   (C)   Any dog license issued in reliance of false or inaccurate information
may be revoked. Anyone who knowingly submits false information to obtain a
license or to obtain a license without paying the appropriate fee shall be
deemed to have violated this chapter and shall be subject to all potential
penalties therefor. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-26: IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, an animal
control officer or a law enforcement officer may seize, impound and humanely
confine to an animal shelter or hospital any of the following animals:
      1.   Any animal at large;
      2.   Any animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to
the public;
      3.   Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement
order of the Wendell police department, a Wendell animal control officer or any
standing quarantine or confinement order of any public officer;
      4.   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of
care;
      5.   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
      6.   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      7.   Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous, or
dangerous where the city council or animal control officer determines that
there is a threat to public health and safety, including illegal, exotic and
wild animals;
      8.   Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered
impounded or destroyed;
      9.   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or has been evicted
from his regular place of residence;
      10.   Any animal that has been declared vicious and the owner or harborer
fails to adhere to the established guidelines set forth in the vicious animal
guidelines as set forth in this chapter;
      11.   Any dog without a valid license tag and that is not on the property
of its owner. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-27: NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION:
   (A)   Upon impoundment of an animal, the animal control officer may attempt
to notify the owner by telephone or mail. If the owner is unknown or cannot be
contacted, the animal control officer shall provide to the city, no later than
the next business day after the animal is impounded, written notice to be
posted by the city at Wendell City Hall describing the animal and the time and
place of taking. Any telephonic or written notice to the owner may also include
the location of the shelter or hospital where the animal is confined, hours
during which the animal can be reclaimed, and the fees to be charged to the
owner. The owner may also be advised that the failure to claim the animal
within three (3) business days may result in the destruction or other
disposition of the animal.
   (B)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay the impound fees
charged by the shelter.
   (C)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within three (3) business days
shall be subject to placement for adoption in a suitable home or euthanized in
a manner prescribed by the city. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-28: ENFORCEMENT; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED; AUTHORITY GRANTED:
Animal control officers and law enforcement officers shall be the enforcement
officials for this chapter. These officials shall have the authority to act on
behalf of the city in investigating complaints, impounding and destroying
animals, issuing citations, and taking other lawful actions, as required, to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. It shall be a violation of this chapter
to interfere with an animal control officer or other enforcement official in
the performance of his duties. Animal control officers are hereby authorized to
take such actions as they deem appropriate to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public, whether expressly authorized by this chapter, or not.
(Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
10-2-29: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
      1.   Fail to comply with any provision of this chapter, that is, to do
that which is described as unlawful or to violate the requirements established
by this chapter.
      2.   Fail to comply with any lawful order of the animal control officer
or law enforcement officer, unless such order is lawfully stayed or reversed.
   (B)   Any person that is convicted or pleads guilty to allowing a domestic
animal, except for a cat, to run at large shall be guilty of an infraction
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense and one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense within one year, and guilty of
a misdemeanor for the third and subsequent offenses within one year of the
first offense. Any person that is convicted or pleads guilty to allowing a wild
or exotic animal to run at large or who violates any other provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Should any person be found
guilty in any court of competent jurisdiction, the court may order the animal
involved to be destroyed by the animal control officer.
   (C)   The city may undertake civil legal action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek to enjoin conduct which violates the provisions of this
chapter and/or to recover the reasonable costs of actions deemed necessary to
bring about compliance herewith. (Ord. 512-2012, 5-17-2012)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTIONS:
10-3-1: Definitions
10-3-2: Hours Of Operation
10-3-3: Violation; Penalty
10-3-4: Enforcement
10-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
PUBLIC PARK: Shall refer to any park owned by the City.
(Ord. 550-2023, 5-4-2023)
10-3-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Public parks shall be open from five o’ clock (5:00) A.M. to eleven o’ clock
(11:00) P.M. daily. No person shall be or remain in such parks after eleven o’
clack (11:00) P.M. and before five o’clock (5:00) A.M. except in the course and
scope of employment by the City of Wendell or by a Law Enforcement Agency.
(Ord. 550-2023, 5-4-2023)
10-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute an infraction and be subject to the
violation and penalty criteria set-forth below:
   (A)   1st Offense: A first offense shall be an infraction punishable by a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00)
   (B)   2nd Offense: A second offense shall be an infraction punishable by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (C)   3rd and Subsequent Offenses: All third and subsequent offenses within
one year of the first offense will be punishable by a misdemeanor. (Ord. 550-
2023, 5-4-2023)
10-3-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Citations for violations under this chapter shall be issued by the Gooding
County Sheriff or other appropriate Law Enforcement Officer or agency. (Ord.
550-2023, 5-4-2023)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
10-4-1: Curfew Hours For Minors
10-4-2: Runaway Or Incorrigibility
10-4-3: Compulsory School Attendance
10-4-4: Responsibility Of Parents Or Other Persons
10-4-5: Penalties
10-4-1: CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS:
   (A)   Definitions: In this section:
   CURFEW HOURS: One minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until five
o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step- parent of another
person; or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common area of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
      3.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
      4.   It shall also be unlawful for any person by any act to knowingly
encourage, aid, or otherwise facilitate the violation of any subsection of this
section by any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   (C)   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (B) of this section
that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
         (j)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (B)3 of this
section that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the police department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
subsection (C) of this section is present. (Ord. 496, 7-16-2009)
10-4-2: RUNAWAY OR INCORRIGIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years,
living or found within the city, to run away from his or her parents, legal
guardian, or other legal custodian, or to be or remain a person who has run
away from his or her parents, legal guardian, or other legal custodian, or
commit any act or acts which render him or her to be incorrigible or otherwise
place him or her beyond the control of his or her parents, legal guardian or
other legal custodian; provided, however, that such minor fleeing from physical
abuse shall not be in violation when such abuse is immediately reported to law
enforcement. (Ord. 442, 11-4-2004)
10-4-3: COMPULSORY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE:
   (A)   School Attendance And Truancy: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to fail to attend, or otherwise be truant
from, a public, private or home school, when there is no legitimate reason for
nonattendance or absence. If the minor is not enrolled in any public, private
or home school, the minor shall be determined to be a student of the Wendell
school district, or the school district in which they would be served, as
determined by their geographical location, address and/or school district
boundaries. This section shall not preclude school sponsored educational
activities performed outside of school properties.
   (B)   Daytime Curfew: It shall be unlawful for any minor person under the
age of eighteen (18) years who is enrolled in any school, yet temporarily
suspended from attendance for whatever reason, to loiter, idle, wander, stroll,
play or otherwise be upon the public streets, highways, roads, sidewalks,
alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, or public places, buildings
or other property generally open to public use, or vacant lots within the city
during the hours in which school is in session as determined by their local
school district.
   (C)   Exceptions: Any person subject to this section shall not be in
violation under any of the following circumstances if he or she:
      1.   Has dropped out of, or otherwise quit school within the limits of
state law.
      2.   Has been expelled from school.
      3.   Is absent under the direction of their parent, legal guardian or
other custodian for legitimate reasons. (Ord. 442, 11-4-2004)
10-4-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS OR OTHER PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful for the parents or legal guardian of a minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years to knowingly permit such minor to be in violation of any
section of this chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person by any act to
knowingly encourage, aid or otherwise facilitate the violation of any section
of this chapter by any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 442,
11-4-2004)
10-4-5: PENALTIES:
Any person in violation of any section or provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of any section of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 442, 11-4-2004)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
10-5-1: Impound And Storage Fees
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
10-5-1: IMPOUND AND STORAGE FEES:
The city council may establish, upon motion duly made, seconded and carried,
impound fees and storage fees relating to the impounding and storage of
vehicles and city owned property at city owned impound yards. (Ord. 362, 3-12-
1992; amd. Ord. 428, 6-26-2002)
CHAPTER 6
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose, Nonliability For Damage
10-6-2: Definitions
10-6-3: Procedure During Blackout
10-6-4: Vehicular, Pedestrian Traffic Restricted
10-6-5: False Air Raid Alarm
10-6-1: PURPOSE, NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGE:
This chapter is enacted for the protection, health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city, and neither the city nor any lawfully authorized or
deputized individual enforcing, or aiding and assisting in the enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter shall be liable in a suit for damages in
connection therewith. (Ord. 130, 3-13-1942)
10-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be defined as and shall
have the meanings specified in this section:
ALERT SIGNAL: An alert signal or alarm consists of two (2) wailing blasts of
the fire siren, and any other available whistles and alarms of one minute each,
with a ten (10) second pause between blasts.
ALL CLEAR SIGNAL: The all clear signal shall consist of one even blast one
minute long.
BLACKOUT: The blackout signal or air raid alarm shall consist of a series of
short quick blasts, and a blackout period shall continue from the sounding of
such signal until the all clear signal is given.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported, propelled or drawn upon or over any street, alley, highway or
ground. (Ord. 130, 3-13-1942)
10-6-3: PROCEDURE DURING BLACKOUT:
During the period of any "blackout", as defined in section
10-6-2 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to make or show any visible fire
or light, and the same is hereby prohibited, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make, or permit to be seen or shown, any light
from any window, door, opening or other place, or from any ground, room,
residence, building, sign, structure, vehicle or other property, public or
private.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to light or strike any match or other fire, or to
smoke any pipe, cigar or cigarette, in any outdoor place or in any vehicle in
the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to light or use any flashlight, torch or other
light in any outdoor place or in any vehicle in the city. The intermittent use
of flashlights, vehicle lights or any other outdoor lights is specifically
prohibited.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to burn or have lighted any lamp, flashlight,
candle, electric bulb, tube, sign, device or other light in any residence,
store, hotel, theater, barn, shed, garage or other building or any structure
whatsoever, unless within an inner room or place, and/or in such manner as
completely to shield and prevent such light from being visible in any manner
outdoors. (Ord. 130, 3-13-1942)
10-6-4: VEHICULAR, PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC RESTRICTED:
   (A)   During the period of any blackout, and during the period of any air
raid alarm, whether in the daytime or the nighttime, and until the all clear
signal is given, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move any
vehicle upon or along any street, alley or public highway in the city, and all
drivers of automobiles or other vehicles shall immediately stop and park the
same at the nearest available place outside of the lanes of traffic and remain
there with all lights on said vehicle extinguished; and it shall be unlawful to
double park, or to stop or park any vehicle on any bridge or the approach
thereto, or in front of any fireplug, fire exit, hospital entrance, or at the
entrance to any street or alley, or in any street except at the curb or extreme
side thereof, or in any manner so as to obstruct, impede or hinder any fire
engine, police car, ambulance or other duly authorized emergency vehicle.
During the period of any blackout in the city, all incoming vehicular traffic
shall stop at the city limits, extinguish all vehicle lights, and remain
stationary until the blackout is ended, and no vehicle shall enter the city
during the period of any blackout.
   (B)   During the period of any blackout, all pedestrian traffic within the
city is hereby prohibited and declared unlawful; provided, that immediately
upon the sounding of any air raid alarm, pedestrians shall take shelter.
   (C)   The provisions of subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to
any fire engine or firetruck, police car, ambulance, vehicle of the armed
forces of the United States of America, vehicles used in the line of duty by
any duly licensed physician, surgeon or nurse, or to any duly authorized
emergency vehicle operating in the necessary line of duty, but all such
vehicles shall proceed with due caution under the circumstances, and in all
cases shall be equipped with dim headlight and rear light coverings approved by
the chief of police, and no other lights shall be used on any such vehicle.
   (D)   The provisions of subsection (B) of this section shall not apply to
any firefighter, police officer, members of the armed forces of the United
States of America, duly licensed physicians, surgeons and nurses, and other
officially authorized persons, if and when acting in the line of their
respective duties. (Ord. 130, 3-13-1942)
10-6-5: FALSE AIR RAID ALARM:
Any person who shall operate a whistle, siren or other audible device in such
manner as to simulate an alert signal or air raid alarm shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 130, 3-13-1942)
TITLE 11
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Definitions
11-1-2: Officers Authorized To Regulate Traffic
11-1-3: Limitations On Backing
11-1-4: Emergency Equipment, Right Of Way
11-1-5: Parking Lanes Designated
11-1-6: Parking Restrictions, Certain Vehicles
11-1-7: Compression Or Exhaust Brakes
11-1-8: Obstructing Streets Prohibited
11-1-9: Emerging From Alley Or Private Driveway
11-1-10: Driving On Right Side, Exceptions
11-1-11: Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections
11-1-12: Drivers Qualified Under State Laws
11-1-13: Vehicle Equipment
11-1-14: Accidents, Procedure
11-1-15: Interfering With Vehicles
11-1-16: Leaving Running Car Unattended
11-1-17: Compliance With Signs, Signals, Officers
11-1-18: Causing Injury To Pavement
11-1-19: U-Turns, Change Of Direction
11-1-20: Hitching Onto Vehicle
11-1-21: Impaired Visibility Of Driver
11-1-22: Persons In Or On Certain Vehicles Restricted
11-1-23: Following Fire Apparatus
11-1-24: Speed Restrictions
11-1-25: Reckless, Inattentive Driving
11-1-26: Driving Under Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs
11-1-27: Driving, Riding Vehicles On Sidewalks
11-1-28: Stop And Yield Signs
11-1-29: Penalty
11-1-30: Street Designations
11-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
DRIVER: Shall mean and include the operator of any such vehicle, the rider or
driver of an animal, and the rider of a bicycle.
VEHICLE: Shall mean and include every device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn on a public street, public way,
alley or roadway, including self-propelled vehicles commonly referred to as
motor vehicles, also including motorcycles, motor scooters and bicycles, but
does not include or mean devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-2: OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REGULATE TRAFFIC:
Drivers within the city limits must at all times comply with any direction by
voice or hand of any member of the city or state police force or the sheriff of
Gooding County, or his deputies, who are hereby given power and authority to
regulate and control traffic to the extent of clearing any street, or part
thereof, of vehicles and diverting traffic therefrom; also as to the placing,
stopping, starting, approaching or departing of any vehicle from any place; and
the manner of taking up or setting down passengers, loading or unloading goods
in any place. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-3: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (Ord.
217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-4: EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT, RIGHT OF WAY:
The fire department, police department, ambulances when operated on official
business, and when the operator thereof shall sound an audible signal by bell,
siren or exhaust whistle, and funeral processions, shall have the right of way
in any street or through any procession, in the order named. (Ord. 217, 7-24-
1969)
11-1-5: PARKING LANES DESIGNATED:
   (A)   The chief of police is hereby authorized to cause lanes or markings to
be painted or placed upon the curbs and/or upon the streets, designating the
parking space of each vehicle, which said lanes or markings shall be so painted
or placed as to show either parallel or diagonal parking at such places. It
shall be unlawful, where such spaces are designated, to park any vehicle across
any such lane or markings or to park any vehicle in such position that the same
shall not be entirely within the space so designated by such lanes or markings.
Where such spaces are not designated, it shall be unlawful to park except when
headed with the traffic, parallel with the edge of the curb, or other street
property, and with the curbside edge of the vehicle within twelve inches (12")
of the curb or other street boundary.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle parking in an area which has been designated
as diagonal, shall turn his vehicle to the right and toward the right hand curb
so that the vehicle will make an angle of approximately forty five degrees
(45°) with the curb, with the right hand side of said vehicle to the curb and
shall bring the same to a stop so that the right front wheel of the vehicle
shall not be more than one foot (1') from the curb. (Ord. 317, 10-9-1980)
11-1-6: PARKING RESTRICTIONS, CERTAIN VEHICLES:
No truck, vehicle or combination of vehicles having a total length of more than
twenty feet (20') between its or their front and rear extremities, or between
the front and rear extremities of any load upon said vehicle shall be parked no
longer than fifteen (15) minutes for any period of time upon any of the
following portions of the city: Idaho Street between Avenue F and 8th Avenue
between the hours of five o’clock (5:00) A.M. until eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
Any person to be found guilty or who pleads guilty to violating this section
shall be guilty of an infraction and shall pay a fifty three dollar ($53.00)
fine. (Ord. 502-2010, 6-24-2010; amd. Ord. 560-2025, 1-2-2025)
11-1-7: COMPRESSION OR EXHAUST BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to use compression or exhaust brakes within the city
limits of the city of Wendell, Idaho. Any person to be found guilty or who
pleads guilty to violating this section shall be guilty of an infraction and
shall pay a fifty three dollar ($53.00) fine. (Ord. 503-2010, 6-24-2010)
11-1-8: OBSTRUCTING STREETS PROHIBITED:
No vehicle shall so occupy any street as to interfere with or interrupt the
passage of other cars or vehicles. No vehicle, unless in an emergency, or to
allow another vehicle or pedestrian to cross its path, shall stop in any street
or highway, except near the right hand curb thereof, so as not to obstruct the
same. No vehicle shall be left standing in front of sidewalk openings where
supplies are taken into buildings or within fifteen feet (15') of a fire
hydrant. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-9: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY:
The driver of any vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, building or private
place of business shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a
sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway,
and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and upon entering the street
or roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on such
street or roadway. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-10: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE, EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-11: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   (A)   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-12: DRIVERS QUALIFIED UNDER STATE LAWS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle in the city who is not
duly qualified and a holder of a driver's or chauffeur's license under the laws
of the state. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-13: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Lights: Every vehicle upon the streets of the city, during the period
from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise,
and at any time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
discernible any person on the streets at a distance of two hundred feet (200')
ahead, shall be equipped with lighted front and rear lamps as required of each
vehicle according to the motor vehicle laws of the state; provided, that
whenever a vehicle meets another vehicle on any street in the city, the driver
is hereby required to tilt the beam of the headlamps downward.
   (B)   Mufflers Required, Cutouts Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to drive a
motor vehicle on any street of the city unless such vehicle is equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise. A muffler cutout shall not be used on any motor vehicle on any
street in the city.
   (C)   Horns And Warning Devices: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
upon the streets or alleys of the city unless the same is equipped with a horn
in good working order capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions
at a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), and it shall be
unlawful for any vehicle to be equipped with or for any person to use upon any
vehicle, except fire equipment, police cars and ambulances, any siren, exhaust,
compression or spark plug whistle or for any person at any time to use a horn
otherwise than as a reasonable warning or to make any unnecessary or
unreasonable loud, or harsh sound by means of a horn or other warning device.
(Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-14: ACCIDENTS, PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Duty To Stop In Event Of: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury or death to any person, or damage to property,
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident.
   (B)   Duty To Give Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury or death to any person, or damage to property, shall give
his name, address and the registration number of his vehicle, and exhibit his
operator's or chauffeur's license to the person struck or the driver or
occupants of the vehicle collided with; and shall render to any person or
persons injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying
of such person to a physician or surgeon for medical or surgical treatment, if
it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or is requested so to do by any
such injured person.
   (C)   Immediate Notice Of Accident: The driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident in the city resulting in injury or death of any person, or total
property damage to an apparent extent of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more, shall
immediately, by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such
accident to the local police department, otherwise to the office of the county
sheriff or to the nearest office of the state police. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-15: INTERFERING WITH VEHICLES:
No person not the owner or operator thereof, shall tamper, meddle or interfere
with any vehicle, or start or attempt to start the machinery thereof while the
same is standing still, or puncture or otherwise mutilate the tires, scratch,
mark or otherwise deface the body or apparatus thereof or take and remove from
such vehicle any portion of the machinery, equipment or other portion thereof
or throw, cast or hurl any stones, rocks, glass or other missile at any vehicle
or the occupants thereof. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-16: LEAVING RUNNING CAR UNATTENDED:
No driver of any automobile or other vehicle shall leave the same unattended
upon any street, avenue, alley or other public place while any part of its
machinery is running or in motion. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-17: COMPLIANCE WITH SIGNS, SIGNALS, OFFICERS:
   (A)   Drivers, Pedestrians Obey Signs, Officers: It shall be unlawful for a
driver of any vehicle or any pedestrian within the city to fail to comply with
any traffic sign, traffic signal, traffic light, local parking or other special
traffic regulation, or direction given by any authorized official of the city;
provided, that such regulations shall not be enforceable against an alleged
violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation, an appropriate
sign, marking or light giving notice thereof is not in proper position to be
seen, or direction so given that it may be seen or heard, by an ordinarily
observant person.
   (B)   Signals By Hand And Arm Or Signal Device: Any stop or turn signal,
when required herein, shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by
a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then said signal must be given by such lamp
or lamps or signal device.
   (C)   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decreased speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
   (D)   Barriers And Signs Observed: No vehicle shall be driven over or upon
any street or pavement, at which a person, barrier or sign is stationed or
located, warning traffic from such street or pavement. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-18: CAUSING INJURY TO PAVEMENT:
   (A)   Injurious Materials On Thoroughfares:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or roadway any
glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or roadway.
      2.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street in the city any trash, refuse, rubbish or any substance, object or
objects of any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
      3.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from any street or
roadway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
   (B)   Hauling Heavy Objects: It shall be unlawful for any person to drag,
transport or haul any buildings or similar heavy objects which are not on
wheels over, across or through the streets or alleys of the city.
   (C)   Lug Wheels Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
or move over the streets of the city any vehicle having on the periphery of any
of the road wheels any lug, flange, cleat, ridge, bolt or any projection of
metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of
such wheel, unless the streets are amply protected by such operator, or such
wheels are equipped with caterpillar treads or similar devices to protect the
street surface. (Ord. 109, 12-11-1933)
11-1-19: U-TURNS, CHANGE OF DIRECTION:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned around upon any street in the city unless
said vehicle shall first proceed to a street intersection. Such turn shall be
made to the left after reaching the center of such intersection and keeping
within the intersection while making such turn; provided, however, that no such
turn shall be made at any intersection where the same has been posted
prohibiting such turns by authority of the mayor and city council. In no event
shall a U-turn be made at the intersection of Idaho and Main Streets. (Ord.
217, 7-24-1969)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to execute a U-
turn on any street, within the city limits, or to change the course of
direction while traveling on any street within the city limits, except at an
intersection, as provided in subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 286, 2-24-
1977)
11-1-20: HITCHING ONTO VEHICLE:
No person riding any vehicle, sled or other conveyance shall hitch or hold onto
any part of any other vehicle with or without the consent of the driver
thereof. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-21: IMPAIRED VISIBILITY OF DRIVER:
No person shall drive a vehicle on any street in the city that is so closed in
or constructed as to prevent the driver from having a sufficient view of the
traffic at the sides of such vehicle, as well as the front thereof; and the
driver must have vision to the rear by a mirror suitably mounted on or in said
vehicle. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-22: PERSONS IN OR ON CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
No more than two (2) persons shall ride a motorbike or motor scooter at any one
time, and no person shall ride in front of the driver of such motorbike, or on
the handlebars of any bicycle or in any other position that will interfere with
the driver's control and management of the machine in a careful and prudent
manner; nor shall the number of persons in a motor vehicle ever exceed that
number which can safely ride in said vehicle without obstructing the vision of
the driver of the said vehicle or without obstructing or interfering with the
safe operation of the said vehicle by the driver thereof. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-23: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle within the corporate limits
of the city, other than on official business, to follow any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm, closer than five hundred feet (500'), or
to drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-24: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle upon any street, road, alley, or
highway of any description at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential
hazards then existing. Consistent with the foregoing, every person shall drive
at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an intersection
or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding highway, and
when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by
reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (B)   Where no special hazard or condition exists that requires lower speed
for compliance with subsection (A) of this section, the limits as hereinafter
authorized shall be the maximum lawful speeds upon all streets, roads, alleys,
or highway of any description, and no person shall drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of the maximum limits.
Street Speed Limit
Street                                  Speed Limit
Idaho Street from H Avenue to C Avenue  35 mph (or as set by ITD)
Idaho Street from C Avenue to 5th       25 mph (or as set by ITD)
Avenue
Idaho Street from 5th Avenue to 8th     35 mph (or as set by ITD)
Avenue
West Main Street from Idaho Street to   25 mph (or as set by ITD)
Wallace Street
West Main Street from Wallace Street to 35 mph (or as set by ITD)
Hagerman Street
West Main Street from Hagerman Street   45 mph (or as set by ITD)
to I-84
East Main Street from Idaho Street to   25 mph
Wendell Street
East Main Street from Wendell Street to 20 mph (7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday -
city limit east boundary                Friday)
8th Avenue West from Idaho Street to    35 mph
Hagerman Street
F Avenue East from Pocatello Street to  35 mph
Gooding Street
H Avenue West from Idaho Street to West 35 mph
Main Street
2nd Avenue East from Idaho Street to    20 mph (7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday -
Pocatello Street North                  Friday)
3rd Avenue East from Boise Street North 20 mph (7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday -
to Pocatello Street North               Friday)
4th Avenue East from Idaho Street to    20 mph (7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday -
Pocatello Street North                  Friday)
Pocatello Street North from 2nd Avenue  20 mph (7:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday -
East                                    Friday)
All other streets within the city       25 mph
limits
Future annexed streets and roads within
a subdivision or otherwise enclosed     25 mph
area of travel
Future annexed streets and roads not
within a subdivision or otherwise       Per Idaho Code 49-654
enclosed area of travel
 
   (C)   Violations of speed limits as outlined by this section shall be
subject to penalty as outlined by Idaho law. (Ord. 449A, 9-5-2013; amd. Ord.
556-2023, 9-7-2023)
11-1-25: RECKLESS, INATTENTIVE DRIVING:
   (A)   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street or
alley of the city carelessly and heedlessly, or without due caution and
circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property, or who passes when there is a line in his lane
indicating a sight distance restriction, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
   (B)   Inattentive Driving: Any person who drives a vehicle upon any street
or alley of the city, in a careless or inattentive manner, or in disregard of
the safety of persons or property, shall be guilty of inattentive driving.
(1977 Code)
11-1-26: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS:
   (A)   It is unlawful and punishable for any person who is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor to drive or be in actual physical control of
any vehicle on any street or alley or other public place within the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful and punishable for any person who is a habitual user
of, or under the influence of any narcotic drug or who is under the influence
of any other drug to a degree which renders him incapable of safely driving a
vehicle on any street or alley or public place within the city. (Ord. 217, 7-
24-1969)
11-1-27: DRIVING, RIDING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or use a bicycle, motorcycle, motor
scooter or automobile or other vehicle or apparatus upon any of the sidewalks
of the city; and provided further, that any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor
scooter or bicycle or apparatus that is operated, driven or ridden through the
streets of the city during the nighttime shall be equipped with sufficient
light to give warning of its presence and approach. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-28: STOP AND YIELD SIGNS:
Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal,
every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop
sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection. (Ord. 342, 7-9-1987)
11-1-29: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that upon conviction of driving a vehicle while
the driver is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, the court shall
demand the delivery of the driver's license as provided in section 49-561,
Idaho Code; and provided further, that upon conviction of reckless driving or
negligent driving, the court shall demand delivery of the driver's license as
provided in sections 49-562 and 49-562A, Idaho Code. (Ord. 217, 7-24-1969)
11-1-30: STREET DESIGNATIONS:
   (A)   F Avenue East, from Idaho Street to its intersection with 3000 South,
is hereby designated as a collector street.
   (B)   F Avenue East from Idaho Street to its intersection with 3000 South,
8th Avenue West from Idaho Street to Hagerman Street, H Avenue West from Idaho
Street to West Main and East Main, West Main from Idaho Street to Interstate I-
84, East Main in its entirety from Idaho Street to the Wendell City limit
boundary, and North and South Idaho Street is hereby designated as the truck
route.
   (C)   Commercial trucks, vehicles commonly referred to as semitrucks and
tractor trailers with four (4) or more axles or that is capable of having a
gross weight capacity in excess of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds, or is
registered to transport sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds or more, are
prohibited from using any other streets within the Wendell city limits, except
those streets designated in subsection (B) of this section, or for the purpose
of local pick up and delivery upon otherwise prohibited streets.
   (D)   Any person to be found guilty or who pleads guilty to violating this
section shall be guilty of an infraction and shall pay a fifty three dollar
($53.00) fine. (Ord. 501-2010, 6-24-2010; amd. Ord. 533-2018, 2-1-2018; Ord.
555-2023, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-2: General Parking Restrictions
11-2-3: Authority To Issue Parking Tickets
11-2-4: Form Of Ticket
11-2-5: Weight Restrictions
11-2-6: Penalties
11-2-7: Responsibility
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When the following words or terms are used in this chapter they shall have the
following meaning:
 
ACTUAL PHYSICAL CONTROL:          Sitting in the drivers position with the
                                  vehicle running.
                                  All signs, signals, markings and devices
                                  placed or erected by the authority of the
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: City of Wendell or by any other official
                                  having jurisdiction for the purpose of
                                  regulating warning or guiding traffic.
                                  Any person who shall drive or operate a
OPERATOR:                         vehicle upon any street or alley in the City
                                  of Wendell or who is in actual physical
                                  control of the vehicle.
                                  The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
                                  or not, other than temporarily for the
PARK OR PARKING:                  purpose of and while actively engaged in
                                  loading or unloading goods, merchandise or
                                  persons.
                                  Every device in, upon, or by which any person
                                  or property is, or may be transported or
VEHICLE:                          drawn upon a street or alleyway, except
                                  devices used exclusively upon stationary
                                  rails or tracks. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
 
11-2-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Any person who parks a vehicle, except when necessary to allow movement of
other vehicular traffic or pursuant to the direction of a peace officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following designated places, shall be
guilty of an infraction, to-wit:
   (A)   On a public sidewalk.
   (B)   Within any portion of a public or private driveway or entrance to a
public street.
   (C)   Within an intersection.
   (D)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   (E)   Within a crosswalk.
   (F)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk located at any intersection.
   (G)   Within thirty feet (30') of the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal.
   (H)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
   (I)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
or within seventy-five feet (75') of such entrance when parking on the side of
the street opposite such entrance, when regulatory signs indicate such
prohibition.
   (J)   Upon any street or portion thereof in a manner which blocks or
interferes with the regular flow of vehicular traffic.
   (K)   At any place where official traffic control devises prohibit such
parking. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
11-2-3: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PARKING TICKETS:
The City of Wendell, Idaho, through its designated police or contract sheriff's
department, has the authority to issue infraction parking tickets to persons
violating the provisions of this chapter. Said tickets shall be administrative
and payable through the Wendell City Clerk's Office. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
11-2-4: FORM OF TICKET:
The designated police or contract sheriff's department, upon observing a
vehicle parked in violation of this chapter, to leave upon such a vehicle a
separate infraction ticket. For each posted time period, or as frequently as
every two (2) hours that such vehicle has been parked in violation of this
chapter. Each infraction notice issued by the designated police or contract
sheriff's department, shall bear the date and hour of the leaving the same at
or upon the vehicle, the make of the vehicle, the vehicle's license number or
VN, the specific section of Wendell City Code violated and the amount of the
penalty (fine), and shall instruct the owner or operator of such vehicle to pay
the penalty at the Wendell City Clerk's Office, on or before a certain date,
not to exceed fifteen (15) days from the date of issuance of the infraction
notice. One (1) copy of each infraction notice shall be filed with the Wendell
City Clerk' Office. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
11-2-5: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall park any commercial vehicle with four (4) or more axles or that
is capable of having a gross weight capacity in excess of sixteen thousand
(16,000) pounds, or is registered to transport sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds
or more, whether attended or unattended, upon any streets or alleyways in any
residentially zoned area within the city limits of the City of Wendell, Idaho,
except:
   (A)   For the purpose of loading and unloading materials or merchandise or,
   (B)   For any purpose incident to any lawful construction project located
with the immediate vicinity of such parked vehicle.
   (C)   For any purpose incident to a lawful commercial operation located in
any residential or commercial zone within the immediate vicinity of such parked
vehicle.
   (D)   For unloading passengers and or equipment from vehicles rated for
passenger transportation.
   (E)   For less than fifteen (15) minutes on Idaho Street between Avenue D
and 4th Avenue between the hours of five o’clock (5:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock
(11:00) P.M. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
11-2-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   All parking infractions issued under this chapter shall be a ninety
dollar ($90.00) fee or assessment.
   (B)   In the event an infraction ticket is not paid within fifteen (15)
business days, an additional five dollars ($5.00) shall be added per day to the
penalty.
   (C)   The failure of any owner or operator to make such payment to the City
of Wendell within thirty (30) days shall give rise to a civil cause of action
against the owner or operator for the amount of the penalty plus late fees,
filing fees and attorney fees. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
11-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY:
If any vehicle is found stopped, standing or parked in any manner violating any
part of the provisions of this chapter, and the identity of the operator cannot
be determined, the owner in who's name the vehicle is registered or the named
lessee in a rental or leased vehicle shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation. (Ord. 504-2019, 9-5-2019)
 
