CITY CODE
OF
WINCHESTER, IDAHO
Code current through:
Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2021
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Ste. 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Winchester, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 298, passed November 8, 2021. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 289
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3-4-2 OF THE REVISED AND COMPILED ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WINCHESTER, IDAHO RELATING TO AND REGULATING RECREATIONAL AND OTHER
OUTDOOR FIRES.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WINCHESTER, IDAHO:
   SECTION 1: That Section 3-4-2 of the Revised and Compiled Ordinances of the
City of Winchester, Idaho, be and the same hereby amended to read as follows:
   3-4-2: RECREATIONAL FIRES, BON FIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES:
      A.    Permits Required: No person shall kindle or maintain any
recreational fire, bon fire or rubbish organic yard waste fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, alley, road
or other public ground without a permit or other proper authorization.
      B.   Portable Outdoor Fireplaces: Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be
used in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated
within 15 feet of a structure or combustible materials.
      B C.     Location Restricted: No person shall kindle or maintain any
recreational fire, bon fire or rubbish organic yard waste fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land unless: 1) the
location is not less than fifty feet (50’) twenty five feet (25’) of any
structure and be no more than three (3’) feet in diameter and two (2’) feet in
height and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within
fifty feet (50’)    twenty five feet (25’) of any structure. Adequate
provisions include the following: Fire extinguishing equipment, such as a 4-
A rated fire extinguisher, dirt, sand or garden hose shall be available for
immediate utilization. Or 2) the fire is contained in an approved waste burner
with closed top, located safely not less than fifteen feet (15’) from any
structure. (1990 Code 7-501; amd. 2018 Code)
         1. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread outside the
designated fire area          shall be eliminate prior to ignition.
         2. Recreational fires and portable outdoor fireplaces shall be
constantly attended          by an adult until the fire is completely
extinguished.
         3. It is unlawful for any person to allow the production or
continuation of             excessive quantities of smoke which may be emitted
by wood burning appliances,          including fireplaces and recreational
fires which disturbs, injures or endangers the          comfort, repose,
health, peace, safety and welfare of any person or persons of             any
area within the city.
         4. Recreational fires adhering to these guidelines are allowed year-
round within          the City limits, unless temporarily closed by the Fire
Chief during times of Very             High Fire Danger or other times of
emergency. Recreational fire permits are             required June 20th to
October 20th each year to burn within the city. These free             permits
are available at City Hall.
      C D.   Authority of Chief: The Chief of the Fire Department may at his
discretion prohibit, restrict, or make other allowances on a case by case basis
or require a permit for any or recreational fires, bonfires and outdoor
rubbish organic yard waste fires when atmospheric conditions make such fires
hazardous. (1990 Code Section; amd. 2018 Code)
   SECTION 2. Any person who violates any provisions of this ordinance or fails
to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this ordinance shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and effect
from and after its passage, approval and publication in one issue of the Lewis
County Herald, a newspaper having general circulation within the City and being
the official newspaper thereof.
   PASSES under suspension of rules upon which a roll call vote was taken and
duly enacted an Ordinance of the City of Winchester, Lewis County, Idaho at a
convened meeting of the City of Winchester Council held on the 4 th day of June
2020
               
                        ________________________________
Miriam J Youngren, Mayor
City of Winchester
ATTEST:
 
 
___________________________________
LeAnn J Trautman, City Clerk
City of Winchester
 
SUMMARY ORDINANCE NO. 289
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING AMENDING SECTION 3-4-2 OF THE REVISED AND COMPILED
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF WINCHESTER, IDAHO RELATING TO AND REGULATING
RECREATIONAL OUTDOOR FIRES AND THE REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS FOR ALL BURNING
WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS OF THE CITY OF WINCHESTER.
PASSES under suspension of rules upon which a roll call vote was taken and duly
enacted an Ordinance of the City of Winchester, Lewis County, Idaho at a
convened meeting of the City of Winchester Council held on the 4 th day of June
2020.
Miriam J. Youngren, Mayor
LeAnn J Trautman, City Clerk
 
CERTIFICATION OF CITY ATTORNEY
 
   I, the undersigned attorney at law, duly licensed in the State of Idaho and
serving as Counsel to the City of Winchester, hereby certify that I have read
the attached Summary of Ordinance No 289 of the City of Winchester and that the
same is true and complete and provides adequate notice to the public of its
contents of said ordinance.
   Dated this ____ day of _________________, 2020.
 
___________________________________
Adam Green, Attorney at Law
ORDINANCE NO. 302
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 4 ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS CODE. THIS
ORDINANCE REDEFINES THE PERMITTED USES IN R-1, R-2 AND MULTIPURPOSE DISTRICTS
AND THE SPECIAL USE IN LAR DISTRICT FOR THE KEEPING OF HORSES AND REMOVES THE
KEEPING OF COWS. PROVIDES FOR A PROCESS FOR THE KEEPING OF PIGS, GOATS AND
SHEEP AS A SEASONAL SPECIAL USE FOR 4H ANIMALS, WITH PRIOR APPROVAL OF ADJACENT
PROPERTY OWNERS AND THE CITY COUNCIL.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WINCHESTER, IDAHO.
SECTION 1.     That Section 8-4A-3 be amended to read as follows:
8-4A-3: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as special uses in the
LAR District:
Churches.
Library.
Nursery for flowers, plants, or trees.
Nursery schools and daycare centers provided there is established and
maintained in connection therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on the
premises with a minimum play area of four hundred (400) square feet for each
child.
Parks and playgrounds.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public utility and communication facilities.
Two (2) horses may be maintained when the facilities are approved by the City
Council and does not cause offensive odors or disturbances to people in the
neighborhood.
Property owners may keep one equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200)
square feet of exclusive property per animal. Said property cannot contain any
residence, garage, or any other outbuilding, except for a stable or other
shelter for the animal(s). Fencing must be setback fifteen (15) feet from
neighboring property lines. This setback area is included in the fourteen
thousand two hundred (14,200) square foot per equine requirement. Manure piles
are to be kept at least thirty (30) feet from any neighboring property and
removed from the property no less than two (2) times per week to discourage
odors, insects, vermin, and other nuisances. All animal feed must be stored in
such a way as to discourage vermin.
 
Property owners may not keep pigs, goats, or sheep, except as seasonal special
use for 4H animals, with prior approval of the City Council and owners of
adjacent properties.”   Additionally, permitted will be the raising of up to
twenty-five (25) poultry, fowl, or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
 
Equine that are kept on leased or rented property must have a written approval
letter from the landowner. Such approval letter should refer to/include the
regulations set forth in the City Code.
If two (2) or more written complaints (from separate individuals neighboring
the property) are received by the City Council in any 3-month period, the
animal owner/property owner will be asked to remove the animals from the
property. The animal owner/property owner may present to the council a written
response which will detail the actions taken to correct the matter currently
and in the future. This response may include written testimony in support of
the animals from neighboring properties residents. The Winchester City Council,
at its discretion, may grant or deny that request.
Other uses consistent with section 8-6-3 of this title, and the Comprehensive
Plan.
 
SECTION 2.   That Section 8-4B-2 be amended as follows:
8-4B-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In an R1 District, the following buildings and uses are permitted, subject to
general provisions and exceptions set forth in this article, and regulations
set forth in chapter 5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
A. Accessory buildings will not be located in any required front yard area; and
B. Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
C. If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
A. Tongue: The tongue of all mobile homes shall be removed or camouflaged to
the extent that it is exposed.
B. Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a foundation
constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications of the
manufacturer.
C. Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is flush to
ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is similar
material, color, and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured home.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off-street parking.
Keeping of one cow or equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square
feet (keeping of pigs, goats, and sheep will not be permitted in this
district), Property owners may keep one equine per fourteen thousand two
hundred (14,200) square feet of exclusive property per animal. Said property
cannot contain any residence, garage, or any other outbuilding, except for a
stable or other shelter for the animal(s). Fencing must be setback fifteen (15)
feet from neighboring property lines. This setback area is included in the
fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square foot per equine requirement.
Manure piles are to be kept at least thirty (30) feet from any neighboring
property and removed from the property no less than two (2) times per week to
discourage odors, insects, vermin, and other nuisances. All animal feed must be
stored in such a way as to discourage vermin.
Property owners may not keep pigs, goats, or sheep, except as seasonal special
use for 4H animals, with prior approval of the City Council and owners of
adjacent properties. Additionally, permitted will be the raising of up to
twenty-five (25) poultry, fowl, or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
Equine that are kept on leased or rented property must have a written approval
letter from the landowner. Such approval letter should refer to/include the
regulations set forth in the City Code.
If two (2) or more written complaints (from separate individuals neighboring
the property) are received by the City Council in any 3-month period, the
animal owner/property owner will be asked to remove the animals from the
property. The animal owner/property owner may present to the council a written
response which will detail the actions taken to correct the matter currently
and in the future. This response may include written testimony in support of
the animals from neighboring properties residents. The Winchester City Council,
at its discretion, may grant or deny that request.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms are
to be permitted per dwelling.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities: Also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes).
 
SECTION 3. That Section 8-4C-2 of the City of Winchester, Idaho Code be and the
same is hereby amended to read as follows:
8-4C-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In an R2 District, the following uses are permitted, subject to the general
provisions set forth in this article, and the regulations set forth in chapter
5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
    A. Accessory buildings will not be located in any required front yard area;
and
    B. Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
    C. If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
    A. Tongue: The tongue of all mobile homes shall be removed or camouflaged
to the extent that it is exposed.
    B. Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a
foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications
of the manufacturer.
    C. Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is flush
to ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is similar
material, color, and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured home.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off-street parking.
Keeping of one cow or equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square
feet (keeping of pigs, goats, and sheep will not be permitted in this
district). Property owners may keep one equine per fourteen thousand two
hundred (14,200) square feet of exclusive property per animal. Said property
cannot contain any residence, garage, or any other outbuilding, except for a
stable or other shelter for the animal(s). Fencing must be setback fifteen (15)
feet from neighboring property lines. This setback area is included in the
fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square foot per equine requirement.
Manure piles are to be kept at least thirty (30) feet from any neighboring
property and removed from the property no less than two (2) times per week to
discourage odors, insects, vermin, and other nuisances. All animal feed must be
stored in such a way as to discourage vermin.
 
Property owners may not keep pigs, goats, or sheep, except as seasonal special
use for 4H animals, with prior approval of the City Council and owners of
adjacent properties.”
 
Additionally permitted will be the raising of up to twenty-five (25) poultry,
fowl, or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
Equine that are kept on leased or rented property must have a written approval
letter from the landowner. Such approval letter should refer to/include the
regulations set forth in the City Code.
If two (2) or more written complaints (from separate individuals neighboring
the property) are received by the City Council in any 3-month period, the
animal owner/property owner will be asked to remove the animals from the
property. The animal owner/property owner may present to the council a written
response which will detail the actions taken to correct the matter currently
and in the future. This response may include written testimony in support of
the animals from neighboring properties residents. The Winchester City Council,
at its discretion, may grant or deny that request.
Multiple dwelling structures or groups of structures, including triplex and
four-plex dwelling structures and multiple apartments in which units are rented
on a permanent basis. Exception: Not including motel or other facilities
offered on a transient tenancy basis.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms are
to be permitted per dwelling.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities; also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
 
SECTION 4. That Section 8-4E-2 of the City of Winchester code be and the same
is hereby amended to read as follows:
8-4E-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In an MP District, the following uses are permitted, subject to the general
provisions set forth in this article, and the regulations set forth in chapter
5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
    A. Accessory buildings will not be in any required front yard area; and
    B. Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
    C. If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
    A. Tongue: The tongue of all mobile homes shall be removed or camouflaged
to the extent that it is exposed.
    B. Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a
foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications
of the manufacturer.
    C. Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is flush
to ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is of similar
material, color, and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured home.
Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off-street parking.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities.
    A. Site development shall include adequate off-street parking for visitors,
employees, loading, and other services.
    B. Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet for each bed in the facility (or ratio required by Idaho Code,
whichever is more restrictive).
    C. No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
    D. Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Keeping of one cow or equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square
feet (keeping of pigs, goats and sheep will not be permitted in this
district) Property owners may keep one equine per fourteen thousand two hundred
(14,200) square feet of exclusive property per animal. Said property cannot
contain any residence, garage, or any other outbuilding, except for a stable or
other shelter for the animal(s). Fencing must be setback fifteen (15) feet from
neighboring property lines. This setback area is included in the fourteen
thousand two hundred (14,200) square foot per equine requirement. Manure piles
are to be kept at least thirty (30) feet from any neighboring property and
removed from the property no less than two (2) times per week to discourage
odors, insects, vermin, and other nuisances. All animal feed must be stored in
such a way as to discourage vermin.
 
Property owners may not keep pigs, goats, or sheep, except as seasonal special
use for 4H animals, with prior approval of the City Council and owners of
adjacent properties.
Additionally permitted will be the raising of up to twenty-five (25) poultry,
fowl, or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
Equine that are kept on leased or rented property must have a written approval
letter from the landowner. Such approval letter should refer to/include the
regulations set forth in the City Code.
If two (2) or more written complaints (from separate individuals neighboring
the property) are received by the City Council in any 3-month period, the
animal owner/property owner will be asked to remove the animals from the
property. The animal owner/property owner may present to the council a written
response which will detail the actions taken to correct the matter currently
and in the future. This response may include written testimony in support of
the animals from neighboring properties residents. The Winchester City Council,
at its discretion, may grant or deny that request.
Multiple dwelling structures or groups of structures, including triplex and
four-plex dwelling structures and multiple apartments in which units are rented
on a permanent basis. Exception: Not including motel or other facilities
offered on a transient tenancy basis.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purpose shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private, and parochial schools provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary school students.
RV parks: Must comply with title 7, chapter 6 of this Code and subsection 8-5-
3C of this title, as amended.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or other similar facility.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms
shall be permitted per dwelling.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities. Also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes).
Other uses consistent with section 8-6-3 of this title, and the Comprehensive
Plan.
SECTION 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect from and after its passage, approval, and publication in one issue of
the Lewis County Herald, a newspaper having general circulation within the
City, and being the official newspaper thereof.
   PASSED under suspension of the rules and regulations of this City Council
upon which proper roll call votes were taken and duly enacted an Ordinance of
this City at a regular meeting of the Mayor and City Council of Winchester,
Idaho held on the _____ day of ________________, 20______.
 
 
________________________________      ___________________________________
LeAnn J Trautman, City Clerk            Miriam J Youngren, Mayor
 
CITY OF WINCHESTER
SUMMARY ORDINANCE NO. 302
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING WINCHESTER CITY CODE, CHAPTER 4 ZONING DISTRICTS
REGULATIONS BY REDEFINING THE KEEPING OF EQUINE AND COWS WITHIN THE CITY
LIMITS, AND SETTING RULES FOR SPACE AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUINE. THIS AMENDMENT
ALSO ESTABLISHES A METHOD FOR THE KEEPING OF PIGS, SHEEP AND GOATS SEASONALLY
FOR 4 H ANIMALS. The ordinance provides an effective date of the first day of
the month following this publication.
The full test of this ordinance is filed in the office of the City Clerk and is
available for inspection and/or copying during normal business hours.
Dated this 5th day of January , 2023.
 
__/s/ LeAnn J Trautman____
LeAnn J Trautman, City Clerk
 
CITY ATTORNEY’S CERTIFICATION OF SUMMARY
The undersigned, being duly appointed and acting City Attorney for the City of
Winchester, Idaho, hereby certifies that he has examined the above ordinance
summary prepared for publication and certifies that in his opinion summary is
true, complete and provides adequate notice to the public of the contents of
the ordinance described therein.
 
Dated this _____ day of ____________, 20_____.
 
 
___________________________________
Andrew Pluskal, City Attorney
City of Winchester, Idaho
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
WINCHESTER CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official City Code of Winchester. This Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the WINCHESTER CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents.
(2018 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title.
(2018 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2018 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to the Office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer when directed so to do by order of the City Council. (2018
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances.
   B.   Appropriation ordinances.
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
   F.   Salary ordinances.
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
   H.   Improvement ordinances.
   I.   Bond ordinances.
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections.
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the City.
   L.   All special ordinances.
(2018 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2018 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The City Council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and City Council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   F.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   G.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   H.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   I.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the City of Winchester".
   J.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   K.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(2018 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The City of Winchester, County of Lewis, State of Idaho.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Winchester.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of
Winchester.
COUNTY: The County of Lewis, State of Idaho.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall commence on October 1 of each
year.
GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and City Council of the City of Winchester.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, limited liability
partnership, trust, association, limited liability company, organization,
government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
(1990 Code §1-103; amd. 2018 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees
1-4-4: Intent To Defraud
1-4-5: Liability Of Employers And Agents
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by City ordinance, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both, together with
such costs as may be required by law. These punishments shall comply with Idaho
Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is limited by State law, such
violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum permitted by State
law.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, such offense is punishable
only by a penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no
incarceration may be imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the City is participating in a
Federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the City may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses.
(2018 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(2018 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
(2018 Code)
1-4-4: INTENT TO DEFRAUD:
Whenever, by any of the provisions of this Code, an intent to defraud is
required in order to constitute an offense, it is sufficient if an intent
appears to defraud any person, association or body politic or any combinations
of persons.
(1990 Code §1-103)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF EMPLOYERS AND AGENTS:
When the provisions of an ordinance or this Code prohibit the commission or
omission of an act, not only the person actually doing the prohibited thing or
omitting the directed act, but also the employer and all other persons
concerned or aiding or abetting the person shall be guilty of the offense
described and liable to the penalty set forth in this Code.
(1990 Code §1-103)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Official Newspaper
1-5-3: Depository For City Funds
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The common, corporate and official Seal of the City shall be
circular in form with inner and outer circles. The outer circle shall be one
and one-half inches (11/2") in diameter and the inner circle shall be one inch
(1") in diameter. It shall bear upon the upper portion of space between the two
(2) circles, the words "City of Winchester", and upon the lower portion of
space between the two (2) circles, the words "Lewis County, Idaho". Upon and
across the center of the space within the inner circle, shall be the word
"Seal". (1990 Code §1-401)
   B.   Adoption Of Seal: The seal described in subsection A of this section is
hereby adopted as the official common and corporate Seal of the City. (1990
Code §1-402)
   C.   Custodian Of Seal: The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of
the corporate Seal of the City, and shall affix said seal imprint upon all
official City documents, records and licenses.
(1990 Code §1-403)
1-5-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Lewis County Herald, a weekly newspaper, printed and published in Lewis
County, is hereby appointed, designated and constituted the official newspaper,
and such other writings as are required under and by virtue of the Governing
Body of the City shall be given publication in said newspaper.
(1990 Code §1-501)
1-5-3: DEPOSITORY FOR CITY FUNDS:
Wells Fargo, Lewiston, Idaho, is hereby designated as the depository for the
City and the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby ordered, required and directed to keep
monies belonging to or in the care of the City coming into his hands and into
the hands of the City in the depository herein named.
(1990 Code §1-601; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: Duties Of Council Members
1-6-3: Duties Of Mayor
1-6-4: Council President
1-6-5: Departments Created
1-6-6: Vacancies
1-6-7: Council Meetings
1-6-8: Quorum And Discipline
1-6-9: Funds, Records And Accounts
1-6-10: Ordinances
1-6-11: Continuity Of Government
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The legislative authority of the City shall be vested in a City Council
consisting of four (4) members, qualified as provided by law. (1990 Code §1-
901)
1-6-2: DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The members of the City Council, the legislative and policy making branch of
the government of the City, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They
shall attend all meetings of the Council unless lawfully excused therefrom by
the Mayor or by a majority of the remaining members, perform all duties
required of them by law and as may be assigned committees to which they may
severally be appointed by the Mayor. (1990 Code §1-902)
1-6-3: DUTIES OF MAYOR:
   A.   The Mayor, the Superintendent and Administrative Officer of the City,
shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his office as an efficient
and faithful discharge of his duties may require. He shall preside at all
meetings of the Council and shall have a vote when the Council is equally
divided, and may call special meetings of the Council when necessary. He shall
appoint all officers and employees of the City, subject to the approval of the
Council, and have such other powers as provided by law. He shall from time to
time provide for the Council such information and recommend such measures as he
may deem beneficial to the City. He shall examine the grounds of all complaints
against any officer of the City to determine existence of a violation or
neglect of duty and report to the Council the evidence thereof, if deemed
sufficient for the removal of said officer. He shall require that every
officer, on the expiration of his term of office or resignation, or removal,
deliver to his successor all assets belonging to such office. He shall perform
all other duties required and necessary for the efficient operation of the
business of the City, and all other duties imposed by laws of the State of
Idaho.
   B.   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to sign, for and in behalf of the
City, all contracts, documents and papers to which the City is a party, and to
require that the conditions in any instrument are faithfully performed.
   C.   The Mayor may borrow money on the credit of the City when so authorized
by the Council.
   D.   The Mayor, whenever he deems it expedient, is hereby empowered to offer
a reward not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the arrest and
conviction of any person charged with violating any of the ordinances of the
City.
   E.   The Mayor is empowered to grant a pardon to any person imprisoned for a
violation of any of the ordinances of the City, and to remit so much of any
fine or forfeiture as in his judgment he may deem just and reasonable and he
shall report such remittance or pardon to the Council at its next meeting.
   F.   The Mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within five (5) miles
of the corporate limits of the City for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinances or regulation and shall have jurisdiction in all matters,
excepting taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits.
   G.   The Mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the
City Council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed
over his veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
Council, notwithstanding the veto, and should the Mayor neglect or refuse to
sign any ordinance and return the same with his objections, in writing, at the
next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become a law without his
signature.
   H.   The Mayor shall have the power, when he deems it necessary, to require
any officer of the City to exhibit his accounts or other papers, or to make
reports to the Council in writing, touching any subject or matter pertaining to
his office. (1990 Code §1-903)
   I.   The Mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant in the
City over eighteen (18) years of age and under fifty (50) years to aid in
enforcing the laws.
(1990 Code §1-903; amd. 2018 Code)
1-6-4: COUNCIL PRESIDENT:
   A.   At the first meeting of the Council in January following a general City
election, the Council shall, from its members, elect one Council member to be
elected President of the Council.
   B.   The President of the Council shall have all powers of the Mayor when
serving in that office due to absence of the Mayor or vacancy of the Office of
Mayor.
(1990 Code §1-904)
1-6-5: DEPARTMENTS CREATED:
For the purposes of better administration of the City, the Council shall divide
the administrative duties of the City into the following departments:
Department of Public Utilities, Public Property, Public Protection, Public
Works and Finance.
(1990 Code §1-905)
1-6-6: VACANCIES:
In the event an office of the Council shall become vacant, through death,
removal of residence, or for any other cause, the Mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the Council, a resident of the City to fill the unexpired portion
of the term until the next general election at which such vacancy shall be
filled for the balance of the original term.
(1990 Code §1-908)
1-6-7: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Council shall hold regular meetings on the first
Thursday of each month. Such meetings shall be held in the fire station and
shall commence at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. If the regular meeting day of any
month is a holiday, the meeting shall be held on the following Thursday at the
same time and place. (1990 Code §1-909; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: The Mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the Council may call special meetings, the object of which must
be submitted to the members in writing and the call, object and the disposition
thereof shall be entered upon the journal by the Clerk-Treasurer. (1990 Code
§1-909)
1-6-8: QUORUM AND DISCIPLINE:
   A.   At all meetings of the Council, a majority of the full Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; unless otherwise provided
by law, a question before the Council shall be decided by a majority of the
members present including by phone or other means approved by Idaho Code. (1990
Code §1-910; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   For the purpose of holding regular or special meetings, a number less
than a majority may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and
under such penalties as the Council may by ordinance have previously
prescribed. Regular or special meetings of the Council may be recessed until
further notice. (1990 Code §1-910)
1-6-9: FUNDS, RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Care Of Funds: The City Council shall make provision for the care and
safekeeping of all public funds of the City and for the deposit of the same.
(1990 Code §1-911)
   B.   Records: The City Council shall make provisions for an adequate record
system and, by ordinance, establish a classification for retention of records
in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code title 50. (1990 Code §1-912)
   C.   Examination Of Accounts Of Officers: At least once in each quarter of
each year, the Council shall examine, either in open session or by committee,
the accounts and doings of all officers and other persons having the care,
management or disposition of monies, property or business of the City. (1990
Code §1-913)
1-6-10: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Presentation And Passage:
      1.   All ordinances of the City shall be typewritten or printed and
presented to the Council by a member at any regular or special meeting. Every
such ordinance shall be read at the meetings of the Council on three (3)
different days. At each reading, it shall be open to discussion and amendment
or may be referred to a committee unless by a majority vote other disposition
is made. All ordinances which have been amended shall, after the second
reading, be engrossed by the Clerk- Treasurer as amended. On final passage, the
yeas and nays shall be called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of
the full Council shall be required for passage; provided, however, that on the
vote, one-half (1/2) plus one members of the Council may dispense with the
portion of this section requiring all ordinances to be read on three (3)
different days, and on the vote upon the motion to dispense with this rule, the
yeas and nays shall be called and recorded.
      2.   When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer, and the date of its passage by the Council shall be added thereto,
and it shall within three (3) days thereafter be presented to the Mayor, or, in
the case of his absence from the City, to the President of the Council for his
approval. If he approves the same, he shall attach his signature thereto. (1990
Code §1-914)
   B.   Passage Over Veto:
      1.   Should the Mayor not approve the ordinance, he shall before the next
regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him for his approval,
return the ordinance to the Council with his objections in writing. When any
ordinance is so returned by the Mayor, it shall be reconsidered by the Council
at the first regular meeting thereafter. If, on such reconsideration, one-half
(1/2) plus one of the members of the full Council shall vote in the
affirmative, the ordinance shall become law notwithstanding the Mayor's vote.
The Clerk-Treasurer, in such cases, shall annex a certificate to the ordinance
stating the same was vetoed by the Mayor, and that, on its reconsideration, it
received the required majority of votes.
      2.   Should the Mayor refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and return
the same with his objections in writing at the next regular meeting after the
same has been presented to him, it shall become law without his signature. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall annex to such ordinance a certificate to the effect that
the Mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has, therefore, become a
law without his signature. (1990 Code §1-915)
   C.   Preservation: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk- Treasurer to keep
the original ordinances as engrossed, and after final passage he shall copy the
same at length in a book to be known as Ordinance Book No. 1, which book is to
be provided by the Council for the purpose and shall be kept as a permanent
record of the City. (1990 Code §1-916)
1-6-11: CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT:
As provided in the Idaho State Constitution, article III, section 27, there is
hereby established the following procedure for filling the offices of the
elected officials in the event of an emergency or disaster. In the event of a
vacancy in the Office of Mayor only, the Council member having the greatest
years of tenure as an elected official shall succeed to that office. In the
event there are, in addition to the Mayor, also vacancies on the Council, the
Mayor shall be elected from and by the new Council. 
(1990 Code §1-917; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointments By Mayor
1-7-2: Terms Of Office; Removal
1-7-3: Salaries
1-7-1: APPOINTMENTS BY MAYOR:
The Mayor shall appoint all employees of the City, subject to the approval of
the Council. (1990 Code §1-1001)
1-7-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVAL:
All appointive officers shall hold office for the term for which they were
appointed and qualified; provided, that any appointive officer may at any time
be removed by the action of a majority of the City Council; provided further,
that all employees holding positions by virtue of appointment only may be
removed and discharged at the pleasure of the appointing power. (1990 Code §1-
1002)
1-7-3: SALARIES:
   A.   Elective Officials:
      1.   Salaries: The salary of the Mayor shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per
month and the salary of Council members shall be five dollars ($5.00) per
month. (1990 Code §1-701)
      2.   Change In Salary: The salaries of the Mayor and the Council members
may be changed from time to time in accordance with State Statute. (1990 Code
§1-703; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Appointive Officials: The salaries or other remuneration of appointive
officials shall be fixed by resolution of the City Council, unless their
salaries are elsewhere provided for in this Code. (1990 Code §1-702)
ARTICLE A.CITY CLERK-TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment
1-7A-2: Duties
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor shall appoint the City Clerk-Treasurer, subject to the approval of
the City Council. (1990 Code §1-1101)
1-7A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Keep Seal, Ordinances And City Records:
      1.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be custodian of the seal and affix same to
documents as provided.
      2.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also be custodian of all public records,
documents, ordinances, resolutions and orders of the Council, and such other
papers and documents as may be delivered into his custody.
   B.   Attend Meetings Of Council; Keep Minutes And Records: The Clerk-
Treasurer shall attend all sessions of the Council, keep a correct journal and
shall keep in a separate book a record of ordinances passed by the Council and
of the titles of such ordinances; and all ordinances not published in book form
shall be carefully indexed alphabetically. The Clerk-Treasurer shall see that
each ordinance is published as required by law, and shall keep on file the
proof of such publication.
   C.   Report To City Council: The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and present
to the Council at its regular meeting each month a full and complete statement
of the financial transactions of the office during the month preceding; in
which said statements shall be set forth all receipts for licenses issued;
money received with applications for licenses which are to come before the
Council; all other funds received by him as Clerk-Treasurer, and said report
shall give a detailed explanation of disbursements redeemed including a
statement of the aggregate of warrants of each fund issued, of warrants
redeemed during the month and warrants outstanding against each fund at the
close of such month. He shall also, at the close of each fiscal year, present
to the Council an annual report covering the operations of the entire year,
which report shall contain a description of the bonds issued and sold during
the year, and the term of sale; and shall itemize each and every expense
thereof. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also make additional reports and furnish
such other data from the records and files of the office as may be requested by
the City Council or be required by law.
   D.   Furnish Copies Of City Records: It shall be the duty of the Clerk-
Treasurer to furnish any City officer with a certified copy of any record,
paper or public document on file in his office or in his custody, for the use
of such officer in the discharge of his official duties, and he shall also
furnish a certified copy of any such record, paper or document to any person
not an officer of the City upon the payment in advance of fifteen cents ($0.15)
per copy.
   E.   Keep Books And Records: The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep such books and
permanent records of the transactions and business of his office as may be
necessary to accurately disclose all transactions and business of his office.
He shall also countersign all warrants, and keep a "Warrant Register and
Abstract of Expenditures", showing the number and amount of warrants issued and
the person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the interest paid, and the
several funds against which each of said warrants is drawn.
   F.   Issue Licenses: The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue all licenses, a
duplicate of which shall be kept on file, but no license shall be issued to any
person unless fees and charges fixed by law shall have first been paid, for
which payment the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt in duplicate. The
Clerk- Treasurer shall endorse upon the receipt and duplicate receipt the
number of the license issued, the number of the application for license, and
the duplicate of such receipt so issued shall be kept on file with the
duplicate license.
   G.   Keep Record Of City Bonds: The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep records of
outstanding bonds of the City, showing the number and amount of each, for what
and to whom said bonds were issued, and when any of said bonds are purchased or
paid or canceled, said record shall show the fact, and in his report at the
close of each fiscal year, he shall describe particularly the bonds issued and
sold during the year, the terms of sale, and itemize each and every expense
thereof.
   H.   City Warrants:
      1.   Information Concerning Fund Drawn Upon And Amount Appropriated To
Such Fund: Each warrant shall show the fund upon which the same is drawn and if
against any fund based upon an appropriation, shall show the amount
appropriated to such fund and the amount expended therefrom after deducting the
amount of such warrant.
      2.   Calling Of Outstanding Warrants: Outstanding warrants shall be
called for payment in their order whenever the fund upon which such warrants
are drawn is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more; provided, that if the
aggregate of such warrants is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), they
may be called at any time that the money is available to pay the same.
      3.   Order Of Payment; Registration: Every fund in the hands of the
Clerk-Treasurer shall be paid out in the order in which the warrants are
presented for payment; provided, that applicable to the payment of any warrant
when presented, the Clerk-Treasurer shall endorse on the same "Not Paid for
Want of Funds", and enter the same in a book to be kept for such purpose known
as the "Warrant Register", and thereafter said warrants shall bear interest at
the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum until there are funds in the hands of
the Clerk- Treasurer with which to pay the same.
   I.   Claims:
      1.   Claims Filed With City: All claims against the City must be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer in writing, and by him presented to the Governing Body
for their auditing, with a full account of the items, verified by the oath and
the claimant or his agent, that the sale is correct, reasonable and just, and
that it nor any part thereof has not been paid, and no claims or demands shall
be audited or allowed unless presented and verified as provided in this
section.
      2.   Claims For Damages: All claims for damages against the City must be
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
time when such claims for damages shall have accrued, specifying the time,
place, character, and cause of said damages. No action shall be maintained
against the City for any claim for damages until the same has been presented to
the Governing Body, and until sixty (60) days have elapsed after such
presentation. The allowance of any or all damage claims against the City shall
be by ordinance and not otherwise.
   J.   Attest Documents: The City Clerk-Treasurer, when authorized and
directed by the City Council, shall attest and place the City Seal officially
and in behalf of the City on all contracts, including deeds, bonds, bills, note
obligations and other agreements, ordinances, documents and papers to which the
City is a party and, where required, shall prepare certified copies of the
same.
   K.   Receive And Safely Keep Funds: It shall be the duty of the Clerk-
Treasurer to receive and safely keep in designated depositories, as required by
law, all monies or funds belonging to the City, which may come into his hands;
to disburse the same upon an appropriation by ordinance or resolution of the
Governing Body after audit and allowance by the Governing Body of claims
therefor, and upon warrant of the Mayor, countersigned by the Clerk-Treasurer,
and not otherwise. Securities belonging to the City, incapable of deposit in a
checking account, shall be kept by the Clerk- Treasurer in a safety deposit box
in some banking institution designated by the Governing Body. All bonds or
securities delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer by any designated depository of
City funds as security for such funds shall be deposited with the County
auditor or other public official as may be provided by law.
   L.   Keep Proper Books And Records: The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep in a
suitable book or books a full and accurate account of City money and funds
received by him, showing the date of the receipt thereof, the person from whom
received, on what account, and to what fund the same is credited with date of
disbursement, the person to whom disbursed, on what account and against what
fund.
   M.   Deliver Books And Papers To Successors: The Clerk-Treasurer shall
deliver to his successor in office all books, monies, papers, and other
property pertaining to his office.
   N.   Publish Quarterly Reports Of Receipts And Expenditures: It shall be the
duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to cause to be published for at least one insertion
in the official newspaper of the City, between the first and third Mondays of
May, August, November and February of each and every year a full statement of
receipts and expenditures of the City, giving the source from hence received,
to what purpose applied and to whom paid.
   O.   Collect All Monies: The Clerk-Treasurer shall receive all monies due
the City on any account whatsoever.
   P.   Make Monthly Report To Governing Body: The Clerk-Treasurer shall, at
the end of each and every month, and at other times when required by the
Governing Body, render an account, including in a showing, under oath, the
condition of the Treasury at the date of such account, including in said
statement the balance of money in the Treasury with a detailed statement of the
specified amount in each designated depository and of the amount and class of
security held to guarantee each deposit. Such account shall also contain a
statement of such receipts and disbursements and all warrants redeemed and paid
by him, which said warrants, with all vouchers held by him, shall be filed with
any and all books or papers in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the
purpose of inspection or examination. (1990 Code §1-1102)
ARTICLE B. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment
1-7B-2: Duties
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor shall appoint the City Attorney, subject to the approval of the
Council. (1990 Code §1-1201)
1-7B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Legal Advisor: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City
Council.
   B.   Defend Suits And Actions: He shall commence, prosecute and defend all
suits and actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf
of the City, or that may be ordered by the City Council.
   C.   Attend Council Meetings: When requested, he shall attend meetings of
the City Council and give them his opinion upon any matters submitted to him.
(1990 Code §1-1202)
ARTICLE C. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment
1-7C-2: Duties
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor shall appoint the Public Works Director, subject to the approval of
the Council. (1990 Code §1-1301)
1-7C-2: DUTIES:
The Public Works Director shall have charge of the superintending of all City
work as follows:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: He shall supervise the grading, surfacing, repairs
and maintenance of all streets and alleys. (1990 Code §1-1302)
   B.   Sewer: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all sewer
lines in the City and the treatment plant, except the installation of sewer
projects which are accomplished by contract, and shall maintain State required
licensing.
   C.   Water: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all water
mains and water services, except the installation of water mains so
accomplished by contract, and shall maintain State required licensing. (1990
Code §1-1302; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Parks: He shall have charge of the care and maintenance of the City
parks.
   E.   Equipment: He shall have charge of and supervise the repair and upkeep
of all City works equipment.
   F.   Employment And Supervision: He may employ, with the consent of the
Governing Body, such help as is needed to carry on the work of the City, such
help to be directly under the supervision of his office.
   G.   Other Duties: The Director shall be responsible for the accomplishment
of such other work of the City which the Governing Body may from time to time
assign to him.
   H.   Report To Governing Body: The Director shall present to the Governing
Body at its regular meeting each month either a verbal or written report of the
City work accomplished the preceding month and also, as far as can be foreseen,
City work planned for the current month. (1990 Code §1-1302)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCES AND FEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Fees For Zoning Related Change Requests
1-8-1: FEES FOR ZONING RELATED CHANGE REQUESTS:
Whenever any written petition, application or request is tendered to a City
official from any person or entity asking for the change in the permitted use
of any real property, whether the request be by way of rezoning, variance,
special use permit, vacation of streets or alleys, or otherwise, the
responsible official shall not receive and file the application unless there is
tendered therewith a fee in the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) to defray
the indirect costs of processing the request, together with an additional sum
to pay for any required newspaper publication or postage for required mailing
to neighboring property owners. These costs shall also include publications of
ordinances and/or ordinance summaries in addition to publications of notices.
The amount for direct costs required to be tendered shall be estimated by the
City Clerk-Treasurer, and the estimated amount shall be collected at the same
time as the seventy five dollar ($75.00) fee for indirect costs. Provided,
however, any money collected in excess of the estimate shall be refunded upon
the completion of the process upon the request of the applicant, and any direct
costs incurred by the City in excess of the estimate shall be paid by the
applicant upon the presentation of a bill for the same. (Ord. 223, 9-3-1996)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Applications
2-1-2: Persons Subject To License
2-1-3: Forms
2-1-4: Signatures
2-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
2-1-6: Term Of License
2-1-7: Building And Premises
2-1-8: Change Of Location
2-1-9: Nuisances
2-1-10: Posting Of License
2-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
2-1-12: Penalty
2-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer or his designee, unless otherwise
specifically provided by law. Each application shall state the name of the
applicant, the permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the
time covered and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such
additional information as may be required by the issuing official. (2018 Code)
2-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to this
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the City. (2018 Code)
2-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk- Treasurer. (2018 Code)
2-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the City Clerk-
Treasurer or his designee in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(2018 Code)
2-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where laws of the
City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of
the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. (2018 Code)
2-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on December 31, where no provision to the
contrary is made. (2018 Code)
2-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the City. (2018 Code)
2-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the City Clerk-Treasurer; and further
provided, that the building requirements of this Code are complied with. (2018
Code)
2-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2018 Code)
2-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City
to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business, or to carry such license on his person if there is no
premises on which to display such license. (2018 Code)
2-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   City Authority: Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be
revoked by the City Council, after adequate opportunity for a hearing, during
the life of such license or permit. Such revocation may be in addition to any
fine imposed. The City Council shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business, the closing of the premises, and the suspension of any
business license or permit for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the City
Council after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the City.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this Code. (2018 Code)
2-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, is subject to revocation of his license, and
shall be fined as provided in section 1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE
ARTICLE A. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Policy Of City
2-2A-2: Definitions
2-2A-3: License Issuance; Conditions And Restrictions
2-2A-4: Application For License
2-2A-5: Investigation Of Applicant
2-2A-6: Form Of License
2-2A-7: Transfer Of License; Fee
2-2A-8: License Fee; Term Of License
2-2A-9: Premises And Location Requirements
2-2A-10: Hours Of Sale
2-2A-11: Gambling Prohibited
2-2A-12: Restriction Of Sales By Licensee
2-2A-13: Purchase By Unqualified Person
2-2A-14: Intoxicated Persons
2-2A-15: Restrictions On Sales And Advertising
2-2A-16: Unlicensed Rooms Unlawful
2-2A-17: License Revocation Or Cancellation; Hearing
2-2A-18: Penalty
2-2A-1: POLICY OF CITY:
It is hereby declared as the policy of the City under its police powers
authorizing and regulating the sale of liquor by the drink, and the licensing
of dealers licensed by the State of Idaho to sell liquor by the drink as
provided under the provisions of Idaho Code section 23-901 et seq., as amended,
that the Mayor and the City Council be empowered and authorized to grant
licenses to persons qualified under this article to sell liquor by the drink
and to provide restrictions, regulations and provisions as provided by the law
as aforesaid, and it is further declared as an additional exercise of the
police powers of the City that the number of outstanding licenses issued
hereunder shall not exceed two (2) such licenses at any one time.
(1990 Code §5-401; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms, words and phrases used in this article, and not herein specifically
defined, but defined in Idaho Code section 23-902, as amended, shall be given
the meanings as set out in said statute. (1990 Code §5-423)
All words and phrases used in this article, the definition of which is not
hereby given, shall be given the ordinary and commonly understood and accepted
meaning.
The following words and phrases used in this article shall be given the
following interpretations:
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the State of Idaho and this article.
LICENSE: A license issued by the City to a qualified person under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the drink at
retail as provided by this article and as provided by law.
LICENSEE: A person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a State liquor store of the State of
Idaho.
PERSON: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article.
Any individual, partnership, corporation, organization or association holding a
State retail liquor license, whether conducting the business singularly or
collectively. (1990 Code §5-402)
2-2A-3: LICENSE ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Issuance To State Licensees: The Clerk-Treasurer, upon the approval of
the Governing Body, is hereby authorized and directed to issue licenses to
qualified applicants to whom licenses to sell retail liquor by the drink shall
have been issued by the Director of Idaho State Police. (1990 Code §5-403; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   Separate Licenses: Every license issued under the provisions of this
article is separate and distinct and no person except the licensee therein
named shall exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder. (1990 Code §5-
408)
   C.   Applicable Premises Only: All licenses issued under the provisions of
this article shall be applicable only to the premises in respect to which they
have been issued. (1990 Code §5-409)
   D.   Disqualified Persons: No license shall be issued to any person, firm,
corporation, association or other group defined as not being qualified to be
licensed under the provisions of Idaho Code section 23-910, as amended. (1990
Code §5-411)
2-2A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a license shall file with the City Clerk- Treasurer an
application in writing, verified by an affidavit, setting forth the following
facts: (1990 Code §5-404)
   A.   That he is the lawful holder of a license issued by the Director of
Idaho State Police pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 23-901 et
seq., as amended, and the licensee shall also present a copy of the State
license. (1990 Code §5-404; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Description of premises for which the license is sought and its
location, and the name of the owner of said premises; such description shall
set forth as a fact that there are windows and/or doors to said premises on the
street side thereof, and that such windows and/or doors have clear window glass
therein permitting an unobstructed view of the interior of said premises from
the abutting street, except when the same are covered by blinds or shades.
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on, in and/or upon the licensed
premises, whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional
sales contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts, incurred in the ordinary course of business and the amounts of such
interests.
   D.   If the premises described in the license application are not owned by
the applicant, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate of the
owner of the premises expressing such owner's consent to the sale of liquor by
the drink on such premises.
   E.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association and the officers and members of the governing
board of a corporation.
   F.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of subsections A through E of this
section, the licensee shall forthwith make a certified report of such change to
the City Clerk-Treasurer. (1990 Code §5-404)
2-2A-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license under this article,
accompanied by the necessary license fee, the City Council may make such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it shall deem proper. If the
Council shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that his premises are
suitable for the carrying on of the intended business, and that the
requirements of this article have been met and complied with, a license shall
be issued; otherwise the application shall be denied and the license fee
returned. (1990 Code §5-405)
2-2A-6: FORM OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under this article shall set forth the name of the person
to whom issued, the location by street and number, or other definite
designation of the premises; if issued to a partnership, the name of the
persons constituting the partnership shall be herein set forth; if issued to a
corporation or association, the names of the principal officers and the
governing board shall be therein set forth. Such license shall be signed by the
licensee. (1990 Code §5-406)
2-2A-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   No license granted under the terms of this article, when transferred by
process of law or otherwise, shall authorize the transferee, including any
executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the licensee,
to retail liquor thereunder until the transferee shall have filed application
therefor containing substantially the same information required of an applicant
for a license, and if the transferee possesses the qualifications and none of
the disqualifications for a license as herein provided, the City shall approve
such transfer and amend the license so to show.
   B.   Such transferee shall accompany each such application for transfer
with, and shall pay, the sum of five dollars ($5.00). (1990 Code §5-407)
2-2A-8: LICENSE FEE; TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fee: Each licensee to whom a license is issued under the provision of
this article shall pay to the City in advance, an annual license fee of two
hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00). (1990 Code §5-410)
   B.   Term: All licenses issued hereunder shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight on January 31st of the calendar year for which issued. The license
fee shall be for the entire year and shall not be prorated but shall be paid in
full at the beginning of each year. (1990 Code §5-410; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Refund: No refund shall be allowed for any canceled, revoked or unused
license. No rebate or discount of annual license fee shall be granted or
allowed for any year. (1990 Code §5-410)
2-2A-9: PREMISES AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitation: All licensed premises shall be maintained in sanitary
condition according to the requirements of Idaho Department of Health and
Welfare licensing requirements, as amended. (1990 Code §5-412; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Location Restrictions; Exceptions: No license shall be issued for any
premises in any neighborhood which is predominantly residential or within two
hundred feet (200') of any public school, church or any other place of worship,
measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance to the licensed premises;
provided, that this limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed premises
that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area, but
subsequent to the licensing came therein. (1990 Code §5-413)
   C.   Examination Of Premises: Any officer of the City, Sheriff, Constable or
police officer of the State of Idaho shall have the right at any time to make
an examination of the premises of any licensee to ascertain whether the laws of
the State of Idaho, the County of Lewis or the United States of America and
this Code are being complied with, and it shall be unlawful to refuse such
officer the right to admittance or access to such premises. It is hereby made
the duty of such officers knowing of any violation of this article, to make
complaints before the proper officers and to assist in the prosecution and
conviction of offenders. (1990 Code §5-420)
2-2A-10: HOURS OF SALE:
It shall be unlawful to sell liquor or offer liquor for sale or otherwise
dispose of the same, or permit liquor to be consumed upon any premises operated
under licenses issued in accordance with the provisions of this article,
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on
any day. (2018 Code)
2-2A-11: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, conduct, play, carry on, open
or cause to be opened any gaming in or upon licensed premises or in or upon any
premises directly connected by a door, hallway or other means of access from
the licensed premises, except such forms of gaming as are authorized by the
laws of the State of Idaho and the City. (1990 Code §5-415)
2-2A-12: RESTRICTION OF SALES BY LICENSEE:
No licensee or his or its employees, agents, servants or bartenders shall sell,
deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered, or given away
any liquor to:
   A.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   C.   An interdicted person. (1990 Code §5-416)
2-2A-13: PURCHASE BY UNQUALIFIED PERSON:
Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or other person who knowingly
misrepresents his or her qualifications for the purpose of obtaining liquor
from such licensee shall be equally guilty with such licensee and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code §5-417)
2-2A-14: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No intoxicated person shall be permitted to remain in, loiter or loaf in the
place of business of any licensee and the licensee and his agents, servants or
bartenders shall give any and all necessary and required assistance to any
police of the County or State in evicting and removing said person from the
premises. (1990 Code §5-418)
2-2A-15: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES AND ADVERTISING:
   A.   Liquor In Original Containers: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to
sell, keep for sale, dispense, give away or otherwise dispose of any liquor in
the original containers or otherwise than by retail sale by the drink for
consumption only upon the licensed premises.
   B.   Liquor Purchased From State Liquor Dispensary: No liquor shall be sold
by any licensee, except the same which has been purchased by the licensee from
the Idaho Liquor Dispensary through its regular retail stores and distributors.
   C.   Advertising: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to adopt or use any
name, sign or advertisement outside of the licensed premises advertising the
handling or sale of liquor therein. (1990 Code §5-419)
2-2A-16: UNLICENSED ROOMS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any room or premises in
which liquor is received or kept, whether owned by such person or by another,
or to which liquor is brought, for consumption on the premises by members of
the public or of any club incorporated or unincorporated or a corporation or
association, unless such person and the premises are licensed under this
article. (1990 Code §5-421)
2-2A-17: LICENSE REVOCATION OR CANCELLATION; HEARING:
The right shall be, and at all times shall remain, vested in the City Council
to revoke or cancel the license of any person licensed hereunder for any
violation of this article, and upon verified complaint filed with the Council,
the Council shall, by written notice, cause such alleged offender to appear
before said Council and be heard upon said complaint. A copy of such complaint
shall be served with such notice, and the day and hour of the hearing, which
shall be at least five (5) days hence, shall be specified in such notice, and
such hearing shall be had in City Hall unless a different place shall be
specified in such notice. If at said hearing upon the taking of evidence on
behalf of the City and such alleged offender, it shall appear to said Council
that cause exists for the cancellation or revocation of such license, the same
may be canceled or revoked without further process of law. Upon such
cancellation or revocation, no refund of any unexpired portion of the license
fee shall be made to the licensee; and the fact of such revocation shall
immediately be certified to the Director of Idaho State Police by the City
Clerk-Treasurer, and, if any conviction is had hereunder in the Police Court
for Lewis County, a certified copy of the judgment therein shall be immediately
certified to said Director. (1990 Code §5-422; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2A-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §5-424)
ARTICLE B. BEER
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Definitions
2-2B-2: Alcoholic Content
2-2B-3: Licensing Requirements
2-2B-4: Application For License; Conditions And Requirements
2-2B-5: Qualifications Of Licensee
2-2B-6: License Fees; Term Of License
2-2B-7: Transfer Of License; Fee
2-2B-8: Power To Refuse, Revoke And Inspect
2-2B-9: Serving Underage Person
2-2B-10: Drinking Beer In Unlicensed Public Places
2-2B-11: Beer Sales At Dances Or Dance Halls; Permit
2-2B-12: Hours Of Sale
2-2B-13: Penalty
2-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
YEAR: A calendar year.
(1990 Code §5-301; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2B-2: ALCOHOLIC CONTENT:
   A.   Beer containing not more than six percent (6%) of alcohol by weight may
be manufactured, imported and/or sold and distributed in and into this City or
possessed therein in the manner and under the conditions prescribed in this
article and not otherwise.
   B.   Beer containing more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight shall
be considered and taxed as wine. (1990 Code §5-302; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2B-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell beer, or offer beer for sale at retail to the consumer
without first obtaining a license therefor from the City, and a separate
license shall be required for each place of business where beer is sold. (1990
Code §5-303)
   B.   Separate Licenses: Separate licenses shall be obtained and required for
each place of business operated by any retailer. (1990 Code §5-308)
   C.   Posting Of License: It shall be the duty of each person to whom a
license is issued under this article to keep the same displayed in a
conspicuous place within the premises for which issued. (1990 Code §5-309)
   D.   Fractional Licenses: No fractional or part time licenses shall be
issued. (1990 Code §5-310)
2-2B-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
All applications for licenses shall be in writing and filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer upon forms to be furnished by said Clerk-Treasurer, and such
application must be accompanied by the license fee prescribed therein and shall
meet the following specifications and conditions:
   A.   All applications for beer licenses shall, accompanied by the prescribed
fees, be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer, who shall note thereon the date
and hour of receipt. The Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon examine the
application for completeness and proper form. If it is deemed insufficient, it
shall be forthwith returned to the applicant with a written statement of
deficiencies and may be resubmitted at any time thereafter. When deemed to be
in proper form by the Clerk- Treasurer, the consideration of said application
shall be placed upon the agenda for the next meeting of the City Council, but
in no event later than thirty (30) days following the acceptance of said
application by the Clerk-Treasurer. The Council shall render a decision upon
the application at the first meeting that it appears on the agenda unless
consideration is tabled for good cause shown, but in no event later than sixty
(60) days following the acceptance of the application by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   B.   In all cases where the Council is considering the application for a new
beer license or the renewal of an existing beer license, a transcribable
verbatim recording of the proceedings shall be made as well as keeping minutes
of the proceedings. These records shall be retained for no less a period of
time than that which may be prescribed by the laws of the State of Idaho.
   C.   Whenever the City Council shall deny an application hereunder, the
Council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant would take to obtain the
license or renewal thereof. (1990 Code §5-304)
2-2B-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No retail license shall be issued to an applicant who is not a person of good
moral character and/or repute, and twenty one (21) years of age or older, nor
shall any such license be granted to any applicant who is not a citizen of the
United States, or has not been a bona fide resident of the State of Idaho for a
period of thirty (30) days prior to the date of making application, or who
shall have been convicted for the violation of any law of the State of Idaho or
the United States of America or of this City regulating, governing or
prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages, or intoxicating liquor; provided,
however, in case the applicant is a partnership, the requirements relative to
residence shall be deemed satisfied when any member of the partnership or the
actual manager thereof has been a bona fide resident of the State of Idaho for
a period of thirty (30) days prior to the date of making such application, and
if the applicant is a corporation, such corporation shall be qualified to do
business within the State of Idaho, and the manager of such business place
shall be such citizen and shall have been such resident; nor shall any person
be permitted to receive or hold a license under this article for use in
connection with any business not under the personal supervision, management and
control of said person to whom said license is issued. (1990 Code §5-305)
2-2B-6: LICENSE FEES; TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fees: The annual license fees shall be as follows:
      1.   The license fee for any retailer selling beer, any of which is
consumed or to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be one hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00) per year or any part thereof.
      2.   The license fee for any retailer selling beer, none of which is
consumed or to be consumed on the premises where sold, is hereby fixed at fifty
dollars ($50.00) per year or any part thereof. (1990 Code §5-306)
   B.   Term: All licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on January 31st of the year in which
issued. (1990 Code §5-306; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Refunds: No refunds shall be allowed for any canceled, revoked or
unused licensee. (1990 Code §5-311)
2-2B-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   No license granted under the terms of this article, when transferred by
process of law or otherwise, shall authorize the transferee, including any
executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the licensee,
to retail beer thereunder until the transferee shall have filed application
therefor containing substantially the same information required of an applicant
for a license, and if the transferee possesses the qualifications and none of
the disqualifications for a license as herein provided, the City shall approve
such transfer and amend the license so to show.
   B.   Such transferee shall accompany each such application for transfer
with, and shall pay, the sum of five dollars ($5.00). (1990 Code §5-307)
2-2B-8: POWER TO REFUSE, REVOKE AND INSPECT:
   A.   Council Authority: The City Council shall have the power to refuse a
license to any applicant, and/or revoke a license at any time when in the
judgment of the said Council the business interests and the welfare of the
City, and/or the inhabitants thereof, will be best served by the denial or
revocation thereof; and for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not any
licensee is conforming with this or any other articles or chapters of this
Code, as well as the laws of the State of Idaho, the police shall have the
right, at all reasonable times, to inspect the places where beer is sold under
the licenses issued. Provided further, that any license issued under the
provisions of this article shall be forfeited, canceled and revoked by order of
the City Council, if, after the issuance thereof and during the period for
which said license shall have been issued, the holder thereof shall fail to
possess all the qualifications enumerated as prerequisites to then obtaining of
such license. The City Clerk-Treasurer, upon such revocation, shall, in
writing, send by United States certified mail a notification to the other
issuers of other retailer's license to such licensee, stating sufficient facts
for identification of the licensee, and the grounds and date of such
revocation.
   B.   Investigation: No license shall be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer
until each applicant has been properly and adequately investigated by the
County Sheriff, and the prior approval of the City Council has been obtained.
(1990 Code §5-312)
2-2B-9: SERVING UNDERAGE PERSON:
It shall be unlawful to sell or serve beer to any minor under the age of twenty
one (21) years. (1990 Code §5-313)
2-2B-10: DRINKING BEER IN UNLICENSED PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall drink beer upon any public highway or street or other public
place within the limits of the City unless said place has been licensed by the
City Council as a place where beer may be sold at retail. (1990 Code §5-314)
2-2B-11: BEER SALES AT DANCES OR DANCE HALLS; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful to sell beer or offer beer for sale or otherwise dispose
of the same at any public dance, or at any public dance hall within the City
unless there shall have been issued a proper catering permit under the State
law for such time, place and event. (1990 Code §5-315)
2-2B-12: HOURS OF SALE:
It shall be unlawful to sell beer or offer beer for sale or otherwise dispose
of the same, or permit beer to be consumed upon any premises operated under
licenses issued in accordance with the provisions of this article, between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day. (1990
Code §5-316)
2-2B-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section 1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §5-318)
ARTICLE C. WINE
SECTION:
2-2C-1: Definitions
2-2C-2: Licensing Requirements; Fee
2-2C-3: Sale Of Wine
2-2C-4: License Issuance; Investigation
2-2C-5: Transfer Of License; Fee
2-2C-6: Off-Premises Consumption
2-2C-7: Restrictions On Sales And Advertising
2-2C-8: Drinking Wine In Unlicensed Public Places
2-2C-9: Restrictions Concerning Underage Persons
2-2C-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Hearing
2-2C-11: Violation A Misdemeanor
2-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this article, the definition of which is not
herein given, shall be given their ordinary and commonly understood and
accepted meanings.
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON: An individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation, or any
group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as the
singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the City authorizing a person to sell
wine at retail for off-premises consumption only.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued hereunder.
STATE LICENSE; COUNTY LICENSE: "State license" shall mean a retail wine license
issued by the Director of Idaho State Police, and "County license" shall mean a
retail wine license issued by the Board of County Commissioners of Lewis
County, Idaho.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar.
(1990 Code §5-501; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2C-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall sell wine at retail unless he
possesses a valid license therefor, issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article. (1990 Code §5-503)
   B.   Application For License: All applications for a license hereunder shall
be made on forms provided by the City Clerk- Treasurer and shall be accompanied
by the appropriate fee. (1990 Code §5-508)
   C.   State And County Licenses Required: No retail wine license issued by
the City Council shall authorize the retailer to sell wine at retail unless
such person possesses a State and County license. (1990 Code §5-510)
   D.   License Fee: There is hereby established a license fee of one dollar
($1.00). (1990 Code §5-504)
   E.   Separate License For Each Premises: A separate retail wine license
shall be required for each premises; provided, however, nothing herein shall
prohibit a distributor or retailer from possessing licenses for more than one
premises. (1990 Code §5-505)
   F.   Fractional Licenses: No fractional or part year licenses shall be
issued. All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on January 31st at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight in the year following the year in which it is issued.
(1990 Code §5-507; amd. 2018 Code)
   G.   Posting Of License: All licenses issued hereunder shall be on forms
provided by the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be posted by the licensee in a
conspicuous place in his place of business. (1990 Code §5-509)
2-2C-3: SALE OF WINE:
   A.   Retailers holding valid licenses for the retail sale of liquor by the
drink pursuant to article A of this chapter may sell wine for consumption on or
off the licensed premises.
   B.   Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of
liquor by the drink shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed
premises and may sell the wine only in its original unbroken container. (1990
Code §5-514)
   C.   Wine sold for consumption on the retailer's premises may be sold only
during hours that beer can be sold pursuant to the laws of this State. (1990
Code §5-514; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Wine sold by a retailer for consumption off the premises of the
retailer may be sold only during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to
the laws of this State. (1990 Code §5-514)
2-2C-4: LICENSE ISSUANCE; INVESTIGATION:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license under this article,
accompanied by the necessary fee, the City Council may make such investigation
of all matters pertaining thereto as it shall deem proper. If the Council shall
determine that the contents of the application are true, that such applicant is
qualified to receive a license, that the premises are suitable for the carrying
on of the intended business, and that the requirements of this article have
been met and complied with, a license shall be issued; otherwise, the
application shall be denied and the license fee returned. (1990 Code §5-511)
2-2C-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   No license granted under the terms of this article, when transferred by
process of law or otherwise, shall authorize the transferee, including any
executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the licensee,
to retail wine thereunder until the transferee shall have filed application
therefor containing substantially the same information required of an applicant
for a license, and if the transferee possesses the qualifications and none of
the disqualifications for a license as herein provided, the City shall approve
such transfer and amend the licenses so to show.
   B.   Such transferee shall accompany each such application for transfer
with, and shall pay, the sum of five dollars ($5.00). (1990 Code §5-506)
2-2C-6: OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION:
The sale of wine at retail within the corporate limits of the City, for off-
premises consumption only, is hereby authorized, subject to the provisions of
this article. (1990 Code §5-502)
2-2C-7: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES AND ADVERTISING:
Any ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding, including, but not limited to,
subsection 2-2A-15B of this chapter, the holder of a license for the retail
sale of liquor by the drink as defined in article A of this chapter, is hereby
authorized to purchase wine from persons holding valid wine distributors'
licenses or wine retailers' licenses. (1990 Code §5-513)
2-2C-8: DRINKING WINE IN UNLICENSED PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall drink wine upon any public highway or street or other public
place within the limits of the City unless said place has been licensed by the
City Council as a place where liquor by the drink may be sold at retail for on-
premises consumption. (1990 Code §5-515)
2-2C-9: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or to any agent or employee of such retailer that he
or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age for the purpose of inducing such
retailer or his agent or employee to sell, serve or dispense wine to such
person. (1990 Code §5-516)
2-2C-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
The right shall be, and at all times shall remain, vested in the City Council
to revoke, cancel or suspend the license of any person licensed hereunder for
any violation of this article or of any violation of any County ordinance,
State or Federal law relating to the sale of wine; and, upon verified complaint
filed with the Council, the Council shall, by written notice, cause such
alleged offender to appear before such Council and be heard upon said
complaint. A copy of such complaint shall be served with such notice, and the
day, hour and place of hearing, which shall be at least five (5) days hence,
shall be specified in such notice. If at such hearing, upon the taking of
evidence on behalf of the City and such alleged offender, it shall appear to
said Council that cause exists for the cancellation or revocation of such
license, the same may be canceled, revoked or suspended without further process
of law, and the fact of such cancellation, revocation or suspension shall
immediately be certified to the Director of Idaho State Police and the Board of
Commissioners of Lewis County. (1990 Code §5-512; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2C-11: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (1990 Code §5-517)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Nuisance Defined
3-1-2: Destruction Of Dilapidated Or Unsafe Buildings
3-1-3: Maintaining Nuisance Prohibited
3-1-4: Liability For Abatement
3-1-5: Abatement By City
3-1-6: Garbage And Refuse On Streets, Sidewalks Or Public Grounds
3-1-7: Trash And Junk On Private Property; Abatement
3-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or which is indecent or
offensive to the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or which
unlawfully obstructs free passage or use in the customary manner of any street,
alley, sidewalk or public park, or injures any street or alley, or disturbs the
peace and quiet, is hereby declared to be a "nuisance". (1990 Code §6-601)
3-1-2: DESTRUCTION OF DILAPIDATED OR UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Prohibited Condition; Council Authority: It shall be unlawful to
maintain any building or property so dilapidated or in such condition as to
menace the public health or safety, and the City Council may cause the
destruction or removal of the same at the expense of the person creating,
causing or maintaining the building or property.
   B.   Special Assessment: The City may impose a special assessment on the
land or premises where such building or property is situated, sufficient to
defray the cost of abating the nuisance thereby created. (1990 Code §6-602)
3-1-3: MAINTAINING NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain any nuisance to be
created, maintained or to exist on premises owned by him or under his control.
(1990 Code §6-605)
3-1-4: LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the owner of any property whereon any nuisance exists
or of the lessee, manager or person in charge thereof to remove, abate or
destroy the same without delay. (1990 Code §6-603)
3-1-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Whenever any nuisance exists for the abatement, creation or removal of which no
responsible person can be found, it shall be the duty of the properly
designated City officer to remove, abate or destroy the same or cause the same
to be done. (1990 Code §6-604)
3-1-6: GARBAGE AND REFUSE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR PUBLIC GROUNDS:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall willfully or negligently
throw, dump, store or deposit upon any sidewalk, street, alley or public place,
or any portion thereof, any glass, nails, tacks, hoops, cane, barbed wire,
boards, or any other substance or material which would be likely to injure any
animal, vehicle or person traveling thereon, or which obstructs or impedes the
free passage of pedestrians or public travel upon such sidewalk, street, alley
or public place, or any portion thereof, shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter. (1990 Code §6-606)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, keep or leave upon any of
the streets, highways, alleys or public grounds within the corporate limits of
the City any manure, stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables, decayed or
decaying substances, slops, swill, garbage, scrap iron, junk, car bodies or
filth of any kind, the same of which are hereby declared to be a nuisance and a
violation of this chapter. (1990 Code §6-607)
3-1-7: TRASH AND JUNK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to
accumulate in or upon any yard, lot, place or premises owned or occupied by
him, or for which he may be the agent, within the corporate limits of the City,
any manure, stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables, decayed or decaying
substances, slops, swill, garbage, scrap iron, junk, car bodies or filth of any
kind, or permit or suffer such yard, lot, place or premises to be or remain in
such condition as to cause or create a noisome or offensive smell or
atmosphere, and the existence of such condition is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and a violation of this chapter. Provided, that no person shall be
prosecuted for a violation of this subsection unless such violation continues
for twenty four (24) hours after he has received the notice provided in
subsection B of this section. (1990 Code §6-608)
   B.   Notice And Abatement: Whenever the City shall have been informed of the
violation of any of the provisions of subsection A of this section, he shall
immediately make or cause to be made an examination of the yard, lot, place or
premises on which it is charged that such violation is suffered or permitted,
and if it is found that there is such a violation, he shall forthwith give or
cause to be given, to either the owner, agent or occupant of such yard, lot,
place or premises or to all of them, a notice in writing to abate such nuisance
and to remove such manure, stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables,
decayed or decaying substances, slops, swill, garbage, scrap iron, junk, car
bodies, or filth of any kind, and if the same is not so removed within twenty
four (24) hours after such notice, the Lewis County Sheriff shall cause the
owner, occupant, or agent of such premises to be arrested, and if he shall be
convicted, shall cause the same to be removed, and the expenses of the removal
thereof shall be paid by the City in the first instance, but the same shall be
taxed as part of the costs in such prosecution. (1990 Code §6-609)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definition; Prohibition
3-2-2: Owner Or Occupant Responsibility
3-2-3: Removal By City; Cost Assessment
3-2-1: DEFINITION; PROHIBITION:
   A.   Weeds, within the meaning of this chapter, includes all vegetable
growth that is unsightly, troublesome, useless or noxious.
   B.   All weed and vegetable growth that has been declared noxious,
destructive or detrimental to the agricultural interests shall be completely
and effectually destroyed. It shall be a sufficient compliance with this
chapter if all other kinds not so declared noxious are kept closely cut to the
ground. (1990 Code §9-401)
3-2-2: OWNER OR OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY:
All owners or occupants of any lot, block or subdivision of land are hereby
required to cut and remove all weeds therefrom. The said persons shall also
remove all weeds up to the center of the street or alley, along, in front of,
or abutting said premises and to keep the same free from weeds. (1990 Code §9-
401)
3-2-3: REMOVAL BY CITY; COST ASSESSMENT:
Whenever the growth of weeds advances to or becomes in a condition prohibited
by this chapter, the City or any of its officers shall notify such owner or
occupant to remove such growth and, in default of this being done, the City
shall remove and cut such weeds or do any other work necessary to place said
premises in good condition. The Clerk-Treasurer shall then certify the cost of
the same and the cost therein occurred shall be a lien upon the property. (1990
Code §9-401)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Fireworks
3-3-2: Transportation Of Explosives
3-3-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: The term "pyrotechnics" shall mean any sparkler, squib,
rocket, firecracker, roman candle, fire balloon, signal light, railroad track
torpedo, flashlight composition, pistol, cane, cannon or other appliances using
blank cartridges or caps, fireworks or other devices or compositions used to
obtain visible or audible pyrotechnic displays. (1990 Code §7-201)
   B.   Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions: No person, firm or corporation shall,
within the City, have, keep, store, use, manufacture, sell or offer for sale,
handle or transport any pyrotechnics; provided, however:
      1.   That nothing in this section shall be held to apply to the
possession or use of signaling devices for current daily consumption by
railroads, trucks, and others requiring them.
      2.   That the Chief of the Fire Department or the Clerk-Treasurer may,
upon due application, issue a permit to a properly qualified person for giving
a pyrotechnic display of fireworks in the public parks or other open places.
(1990 Code §7-202)
3-3-2: TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Explosives shall not be transported or carried on or in any conveyance
carrying passengers for hire. (1990 Code §7-301)
   B.   Every vehicle, while carrying explosives, shall be marked or placarded
on each side and the rear with the word "explosives" in letters not less than
eight inches (8") high, and there shall be displayed on the rear of the vehicle
a red flag not less than twenty four inches (24") square, marked with the word
"danger" in white letters six inches (6") high. Also, the vehicle shall be
equipped with not less than two (2) fire extinguishers, filled and ready for
immediate use, and placed at a convenient point on the vehicle. (1990 Code §7-
301; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of a vehicle containing
explosives to smoke in, upon or near such vehicle; to drive, load or unload the
vehicle while intoxicated; to drive the vehicle in a careless or reckless
manner, or to unload such vehicle in a careless or reckless manner.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or carry, or cause to be
placed or carried, any metal tool or other similar piece of metal, in the bed
or body of a vehicle containing explosives.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or carry or cause to be
placed or carried, in the bed or body of a vehicle containing explosives, any
exploders, detonators, blasting caps, or other similar explosive material, or
to carry in or upon any such vehicle any matches. (1990 Code §7-301)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
3-4-1: Smoking Prohibited Under Certain Conditions
3-4-2: Bonfires And Outdoor Rubbish Fires
3-4-3: Lighting Fire Upon Land Of Others
3-4-4: Deposits Of Hot Ashes And Other Dangerous Materials
3-4-5: Accumulating Waste Materials
3-4-6: Handling Of Combustible Materials
3-4-7: Storage Of Combustible Materials; Permit
3-4-8: Flammable Decorative Materials In Stores
3-4-9: Safe Condition Of Chimneys And Heating Appliances
3-4-10: Paint Removal With Torches Or Flame Producing Devices
3-4-11: Fire Protection Equipment
3-4-12: Fire Hazard Inspection Authorized
3-4-1: SMOKING PROHIBITED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
   A.   Definition: The term "smoking" shall mean and include the carrying of
lighted pipe, vaping devices, cigarette or tobacco in any form. (1990 Code §7-
701; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Designation Of No Smoking Areas:
      1.   Where conditions are such as to make smoking a hazard in any areas
of warehouses, stores, industrial plants, institutions, places of assembly, and
in open spaces where combustible materials are stored or handled, the Chief of
the Fire Department is empowered and authorized to order the owner or occupant
in writing to post "No Smoking" signs in each building, structure, room or
place in which smoking shall be prohibited.
      2.   The Chief of the Fire Department shall designate specific safe
locations, if necessary, in any building, structure or place in which smoking
may be permitted. (1990 Code §7-702)
   C.   No Smoking Signs: "No Smoking" signs required in accordance with
subsection B of this section shall read "By Order of the Chief of the Fire
Department". (1990 Code §7-703)
   D.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any
legally required "No Smoking" sign or to smoke in any place where such signs
are posted. (1990 Code §7-704)
3-4-2: BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in
any public street, alley, road or other public ground without a permit or other
proper authorization.
   B.   Location Restricted: No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any
private land unless: 1) the location is not less than fifty feet (50') from any
structure and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to
within fifty feet (50') of any structure; or 2) the fire is contained in an
approved waste burner with closed top, located safely not less than fifteen
feet (15') from any structure. (1990 Code §7-501)
   C.   Authority Of Chief: The Chief of the Fire Department may prohibit,
restrict or require a permit for any or all bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(1990 Code §7-501; amd. 2018 Code)
3-4-3: LIGHTING FIRE UPON LAND OF OTHERS:
No person shall kindle a fire upon the land of another without permission of
the owner thereof or his agent. (1990 Code §7-502)
3-4-4: DEPOSITS OF HOT ASHES AND OTHER DANGEROUS MATERIALS:
No person shall deposit hot ashes or cinders, or smoldering coals, or greasy or
oily substances liable to spontaneous ignition, into any wooden receptacle, or
place the same within ten feet (10') of any combustible materials, except in
metal or other noncombustible receptacles. Such receptacles, unless resting on
a noncombustible floor or on the ground outside the building, shall be placed
on noncombustible stands, and in every case must be kept at least two feet (2')
away from any combustible wall or partition. (1990 Code §7-503)
3-4-5: ACCUMULATING WASTE MATERIALS:
Accumulations of waste paper, hay, grass, straw, weeds, litter or combustible
or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind shall not be permitted to remain upon
any roof or in any court, yard, vacant lot or open space. All weeds, grass,
vines or other growth, when same endangers property, or is liable to be fired,
shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the property upon
which same is located. (1990 Code §7-504)
3-4-6: HANDLING OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS:
   A.   No person making, using, storing or having in his charge, or under his
control any shavings, excelsior, rubbish, sacks, bags, litter, hay, straw or
combustible waste materials shall fail or neglect at the close of each day to
cause all such material which is not compactly baled and stacked in an orderly
manner to be removed from the building or stored in suitable vaults or in metal
or metal lined, covered, receptacles or bins.
   B.   The Chief of the Fire Department shall require suitable baling presses
to be installed in stores, apartment buildings, factories and similar places
where accumulations of paper and waste materials are not removed at least every
second day. (1990 Code §7-505)
3-4-7: STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS; PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall store in excess of two thousand five
hundred (2,500) cubic feet gross volume of combustible empty packing cases,
boxes, barrels or similar containers, or rubber tires, or baled cotton, rubber
or cork, or other similarly combustible material without a permit from the
Chief of the Fire Department.
   B.   Storage Requirements: Storage in buildings shall be orderly, shall not
be within two feet (2') of the ceiling, and not so located as to endanger exit
from the building. Storage in the open shall not be more than twenty feet (20')
in height, shall be so located, with respect to adjacent buildings, as not to
constitute a hazard, and shall be compact and orderly. (1990 Code §7-506)
3-4-8: FLAMMABLE DECORATIVE MATERIALS IN STORES:
Cotton batting, straw, dry vines, leaves, trees, or other highly flammable
materials shall not be used for decorative purposes in show windows or other
parts of stores unless flameproofed; provided, however, that nothing in this
section shall be held to prohibit the display of saleable goods permitted and
offered for sale. (1990 Code §7-507)
3-4-9: SAFE CONDITION OF CHIMNEYS AND HEATING APPLIANCES:
   A.   All chimneys, smokestacks or similar devices for conveying smoke or hot
gases to the outer air and the stoves, furnaces, fire boxes or boilers to which
they are connected shall be constructed and maintained in such a manner as not
to create a fire hazard.
   B.   To have any combustible substance such as wood, paper or cloth of any
kind nearer than three inches (3") of any stove, furnace, fireplace or range or
pipe as a permanent fixture in any building in the City is hereby prohibited.
(1990 Code §7-508)
3-4-10: PAINT REMOVAL WITH TORCHES OR FLAME PRODUCING DEVICES:
Any person using a torch or other flame producing device for removing paint
from any building or structure shall provide one approved fire extinguisher or
water hose connected to the water supply on the premises where such burning is
done. In all cases, the person doing the burning shall remain on the premises
one hour after the torch or flame producing device has been used. (1990 Code
§7-509)
3-4-11: FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Chief Survey Premises; Specify Needed Equipment: The Chief of the Fire
Department shall survey each mercantile and manufacturing establishment,
school, place of assembly, place of detention, hotel and multi-family house,
and shall specify suitable fire detecting devices or extinguishing appliances
which shall be provided, in or near boiler rooms, kitchens of restaurants,
clubs and like establishments, storage rooms involving considerable combustible
material, rooms in which hazardous manufacturing processes are involved, garage
sections, and other places of a generally hazardous nature. Such devices or
appliances may consist of automatic fire alarm systems, automatic sprinkler or
water spray systems, standpipe and hose, fixed or portable fire extinguishers
of a type suitable for the probable class of fire, or suitable asbestos
blankets, manual or automatic covers, or carbon dioxide or other inert gas
extinguishing systems. In specially hazardous processes or storages, appliances
of more than one type or special systems may be required. (1990 Code §7-601)
   B.   Maintenance Of Equipment: Sprinkler systems, standpipe systems, fire
alarm systems, and other fire protective or extinguishing systems or appliances
which have been installed in compliance with any permit or order, or because of
any law or ordinance shall be maintained in operative condition at all times,
and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to reduce the effectiveness
of the protection required; except, that this shall not prohibit the owner or
occupant from temporarily reducing or discontinuing the protection where
necessary to make tests, repairs, alterations or additions. The Chief of the
Fire Department shall be notified before such tests, repairs, alterations or
additions are started unless the work is to be continuous until completion.
(1990 Code §7-602)
3-4-12: FIRE HAZARD INSPECTION AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Fire Chief May Inspect: Authority is hereby given to the Chief of the
Fire Department to inspect or cause to be inspected by the Fire Department
officers or members, as often as may be necessary, all buildings, premises and
public thoroughfares, except the interior of private dwellings, for the purpose
of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause
fire, or any violations of the provisions or intent of any laws of the City
affecting the fire hazard. (1990 Code §7-801)
   B.   Hazard Removal Upon Order Of Chief: Whenever an officer or member shall
find in any building, upon any premises or other place, combustible matter or
dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of waste paper,
boxes, shavings, or any other highly inflammable materials especially liable to
fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property, or shall find
obstruction to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows liable
to interfere with the operation of the Fire Department, or egress of occupants
in case of fire, he shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such
order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such
premises or buildings, subject to appeal within twenty four (24) hours to the
City Council, who shall within five (5) days review such order and file its
decision thereon, and, unless the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain
in full force and be obeyed by such owner or occupant. (1990 Code §7-802)
   C.   Failure To Remove Hazard: Any owner or occupant failing to comply with
such order within ten (10) days after the service of said order shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code §7-803)
   D.   Serving Of Order: The service of any such order shall be made upon the
occupant of the premises to whom it is directed by either delivering a true
copy of the same to such occupant personally or by delivering same to and
leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or in case no such
persons are found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the said premises. Whenever it
may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of the premises, such
order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with said person a true
copy of the said order, or if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the
officer making the order, by mailing him such copy to the owner's last known
post office address. (1990 Code §7-804)
TITLE 4
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Enforcement By County
4-1-1: ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY:
The City hereby appoints the Sheriff of Lewis County and his duly appointed
deputies as police officers for the City, with all of the powers and duties as
provided by law for such police officers within the territorial jurisdiction of
the incorporated limits of the City, as they now or shall hereafter encompass.
(1990 Code §3-101)
CHAPTER 2
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-2-1: Department Created; Supervision
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Department Officers
4-2-4: Social Officers
4-2-5: Duties Of Chief
4-2-6: Duties Of Assistant Chief, Captain
4-2-7: Membership; Authority
4-2-8: Compensation
4-2-9: Equipment
4-2-10: Mutual Aid Agreements
4-2-11: General Requirements And Restrictions
4-2-12: Violations; Enforcement
4-2-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; SUPERVISION:
A department to be hereinafter known as the Winchester Volunteer Fire
Department, the object of which shall be prevention of fire and protection of
life and property within the City limits, is hereby created. The Fire
Department shall be a division of the Department of Public Protection and shall
be under the supervision of the City Council. (Ord. 266, 2-2013; amd. 2018
Code)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CITY: The City of Winchester, Idaho.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of Winchester, Idaho.
DEPARTMENT: The Winchester Volunteer Fire Department.
FIRE CHIEF: The appointed Chief of the Winchester Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 266, 2-2013)
4-2-3: DEPARTMENT OFFICERS:
   A.   Composition: The department shall consist of a Chief, an Assistant
Chief, a Captain, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as the
Chief and the City Council may deem necessary for the effective operations of
the department.
   B.   Chief Of Department:
      1.   The Volunteer Fire Department shall elect from their own membership,
a person to be recommended to the City Council for appointment as Chief of the
Department. The person chosen shall be elected by a majority of the membership
of the department present and voting at said election. The person so
recommended shall, upon confirmation and approval of the City Council, be
appointed by the Council as Chief of the Department. The Chief shall be
technically qualified by training and experiences and shall have the ability to
command men and women, and hold their respect and confidence.
      2.   The Chief shall serve for a term of two (2) years and may be, from
time to time, re-recommended and re-appointed.
      3.   The Chief shall be accountable to the City Council only, and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as the Council may require.
      4.   The Chief cannot be removed from the office during his term except
by a written notice served upon the Fire Chief setting forth the grounds and
charges against him, the grounds and charges may be preferred by the City
Council, or by a majority of the membership of the Volunteer Fire Department,
and then the said Fire Chief cannot be removed unless he shall have a hearing
with the right to defend himself against the charges and a vote of a majority
of the members of the City Council.
   C.   Selection Of Officers; Removal; Terms: The Assistant Chiefs, Captain,
and all other departmental officers except the Chief shall be elected by the
members of the Volunteer Fire Department from its own membership and said
persons shall be chosen by a majority vote of members present and voting at
said election and shall be accountable to the Chief and subject to removal by
majority vote of the members of the Volunteer Fire Department. The Assistant
Chiefs, Captain, and all other departmental officers shall be elected for a
term of two (2) years. (Ord. 266, 2-2013)
4-2-4: SOCIAL OFFICERS:
   A.   The department may elect a President, Vice President, Secretary and
Treasurer, to be known as Social Officers. Such officers may be elected in any
manner and for any term the membership may decide upon, and their duties shall
be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored by the
department.
   B.   The functions and duties of said Social Officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the department. (Ord. 266, 2-
2013)
4-2-5: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   The Chief shall be responsible to the City Council for the personnel,
morale, and general efficiency of the department.
   B.   The Chief shall, at least twice monthly, conduct suitable drills and
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment; first aid in rescue
work, salvage, a study of the buildings in the City, fire prevention, water
supplies and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire. When weather conditions
do not permit drills, meetings shall consist of discussion of firefighting
equipment and apparatus.
   C.   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
   D.   The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises at any reasonable hour for the purposes of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found.
Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazards shall comply
therewith and promptly notify the Chief.
   E.   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the department.
   F.   The Chief shall report quarterly to the City Council the condition of
the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the quarter, their
location and cause, the date of same and the loss occasioned thereby, the
number and purpose of all other runs made; the number of members responding to
each fire or other run and any changes in membership.
   G.   The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the City Council at
the last meeting at the close of the fiscal year, such report to include the
information specified in subsection F of this section, together with
comparative data for previous years and recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of the department.
   H.   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be the Chief Executive Officer
of the department, subject to the rules and regulations and orders of the Fire
Department and the City Council and shall have under such conditions control
and command of all property belonging to the department and of all subordinates
in the service. He shall enforce the faithful observance of the ordinances of
the City, and the rules and regulations of the Fire Department.
   I.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to see that
all property and apparatus provided for the use of the Fire Department is
protected from violence and kept clean, and in good repair for immediate use.
   J.   At all fires, the Chief of the Fire Department shall have sole command
and all members of the Fire Department and the County Sheriff and his duly
appointed deputies shall, during the continuance of any fire, be subject to his
order. He may, when deemed necessary for extinguishment of any fire, call to
his aid any person present, and it shall be the duty of every person so called
upon by the Chief of the Fire Department to render him prompt service;
provided, however, that in the absence of the Chief or Assistant Chiefs or
Captain, the first fire personnel to arrive upon the scene of said fire shall
be in command therewith until the arrival of the Chief or Assistant Chiefs or
superior officer in the Fire Department. (Ord. 266, 2-2013)
4-2-6: DUTIES OF ASSISTANT CHIEF, CAPTAIN:
   A.   The Assistant Chief and Captain shall report to the Chief at fires and
assist him in the discharge of his duties.
   B.   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
   C.   In the absence of both the Chief and Assistant Chief, the Captain shall
command the department with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Ord. 266, 2-2013)
4-2-7: MEMBERSHIP; AUTHORITY:
   A.   The membership of the department shall consist of as many able bodied
individuals who live in or around the City within a reasonable travel distance
as possible. The department resources shall be the limiting factor in
membership size.
   B.   Any member of the department may be suspended or discharged from the
department on charges preferred by the Chief to the membership of the
department at any time the Chief may deem such action necessary for the good of
the department, and at a regular meeting, shall vote by secret ballot to
discharge such member from membership.
   C.   The Volunteer Fire Department is hereby authorized to adopt bylaws,
rules and regulations for the administration of the department not in conflict
with the laws of the State or the ordinances of the City. These bylaws, rules
and regulations shall be effective when approved by the City Council and a copy
filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The membership of the Volunteer Fire
Department shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof,
adopt a set of bylaws, rules and regulations for the department. (Ord. 266, 2-
2013)
4-2-8: COMPENSATION:
The compensation to be paid by the City to the Fire Department shall be in
addition to such other compensations elsewhere granted in other ordinances of
the City, as follows:
   A.   The Fire Department shall receive for each member attending each drill
or lecture meeting the sum of fifty cents ($0.50). Attendance shall be
determined by roll call by the Secretary or Treasurer forthwith after the
meeting has been called to order. The department shall receive no compensation
for members not present at said drill or meeting.
   B.   For services when actually engaged in fighting fires or when responding
to a fire alarm, the department shall receive one dollar ($1.00) for each
member who actually engages in firefighting or responds to a fire alarm. (Ord.
266, 2-2013)
4-2-9: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The department shall be equipped with the firefighting apparatus and
equipment as the City now owns and that which may be acquired from time to time
to maintain its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   B.   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by the
Chief and, after approval by the City Council, shall be purchased in such
manner as may be designated by the City Council. (Ord. 266, 2-2013)
   C.   All equipment of the department shall be safely and conveniently housed
in such places as may be designated by the Fire Chief.
   D.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose without proper authority nor shall they take away or conceal any
article used in any way by the department.
   E.   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless
accompanied by, or having special permission of, any officer or authorized
member of the department.
(Ord. 266, 2-2013; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-10: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
   A.   The Fire Department of the City is hereby authorized to enter into
agreements or contracts with nearby incorporated City, County, State, Tribal,
or Federal agencies in the establishment of a mutual aid system. All contracts
and agreements shall have the proper approval of the City Council before they
shall become effective.
   B.   The department shall respond to all incidents in accordance with an
established Response Guideline mutually approved by both the City Council and
the department. This protocol may be revised as necessary to best protect the
City, but has full force of this chapter and department. (Ord. 266, 2-2013)
4-2-11: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Right-Of-Way: All emergency vehicles shall have the right- of-way over
all other traffic when responding to an alarm, in accordance with State traffic
laws.
   B.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire
hose except upon specific orders from the Chief or other officers in charge
where the hose is used.
   C.   Parking Near Fire Station Or Fire Hydrant: No person shall park any
vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to be placed within twenty feet
(20') of the entrance to any fire station or other place where fire apparatus
is stored, or within fifteen feet (15') of any fire hydrant or cistern.
   D.   Following Fire Apparatus; Parking Near Fire: No unauthorized person
with any vehicle shall follow within five hundred feet (500') of any apparatus
belonging to the department, nor park any vehicle within five hundred feet
(500') of a fire.
   E.   False Alarm: No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned
in a false alarm. (Ord. 266, 2-2013; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-12: VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of subsections
4-2-5D,
4-2-9D and E, and
4-2-11C, D, and E of this chapter shall be referred to the Lewis County
Sheriff's Office for prosecution according to applicable State laws.
   B.   All regularly appointed members of the department are hereby given the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 266, 2-2013)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Aid In Breach Of Peace
4-3-2: Aid To An Offense
4-3-3: Assault Or Battery
4-3-4: Disorderly Conduct
4-3-5: Disturbing The Peace
4-3-6: Drunkenness
4-3-7: Obscenity; Lewd Conduct
4-3-8: Prostitution; House Of Prostitution
4-3-9: False Pretenses
4-3-10: False Representation
4-3-11: Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of Admission Fees
4-3-12: Gambling
4-3-13: Resisting An Officer
4-3-14: Offenses Concerning Prisoners
4-3-15: Keeping Of Junk Restricted
4-3-16: Abandoned Refrigerators, Other Containers
4-3-17: Deposits Of Injurious Materials On Thoroughfares
4-3-18: Malicious Injury To Property
4-3-19: Riot
4-3-20: Unlawful Assembly
4-3-21: Noise
4-3-22: Radio And Television Interference
4-3-23: Weapons And Firearms; Shooting Galleries
4-3-24: Trespassing
4-3-25: Vagrancy
4-3-1: AID IN BREACH OF PEACE:
Any person who shall aid or countenance in making any improper noise, riot or
breach of the peace or diversion in the streets or elsewhere within the City to
the annoyance or disturbance of citizens or travelers shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1990 Code §6-101)
4-3-2: AID TO AN OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way or manner, aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein, or in any manner encourage the commission of such
offense hereby defined. (1990 Code §6-103)
4-3-3: ASSAULT OR BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ASSAULT: An unlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a
violent injury on the person of another.
   BATTERY: Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person
of another.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit assault
or battery. (1990 Code §6-105)
4-3-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion, or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, to be guilty of
any incident, insulting or immoral conduct or behavior. (1990 Code §6-108)
4-3-5: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace, quiet or order by
violent, tumultuous or offensive conduct or acts or by unseemly, profane,
obscene or offensive language calculated to provoke a breach of the peace, and
any person who shall permit any such conduct in or upon any house or premises
owned by or controlled by him so that others in the vicinity are disturbed
thereby, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code §6-110)
4-3-6: DRUNKENNESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other public
place. (1990 Code §6-111)
4-3-7: OBSCENITY; LEWD CONDUCT:
   A.   Distribution Of Obscene Literature: It shall be unlawful for any person
to exhibit, pass, give or deliver to another any obscene, lewd or indecent
book, pamphlet, picture, card, print, paper, writing, mold, cast or figure, or
to have same in his possession, unless it be shown that the possession is for
lawful purposes. (1990 Code §6-109)
   B.   Indecent Exposure: It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a
state of nudity in any public place, or in any such place to make any indecent
exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof, or the private parts of
another, or to conduct himself or herself in a lewd or lascivious manner. (1990
Code §6-120)
   C.   Lewd Or Obscene Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any person to write
or print any lewd or obscene language or to draw any lewd or obscene pictures
on any building, wall, fence, railing or other place where it may be seen or
read by others. (1990 Code §6-122)
   D.   Obscene Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or
stool in any place open to public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious
or obscene conduct, or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words
in any public place, or any other place where other persons are present. (1990
Code §6-124)
4-3-8: PROSTITUTION; HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Any person who pursues or advertises her vocation as a prostitute, and
every person who advertises the vocation of a prostitute or solicits for a
prostitute, and every person guilty of prostitution, upon conviction thereof,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Every person who keeps or assists in the keeping of a house of ill fame
or prostitution, or who knowingly resides therein or who knowingly rents,
leases or permits any person to occupy any house or room owned, leased or
controlled by him, to use for this purpose, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1990 Code §6-125)
4-3-9: FALSE PRETENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares, or
merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments, or food or other articles and receive the same and refuse to pay
for the same, or depart without paying for same or satisfying the person from
whom he received the food, refreshments, goods, wares or merchandise. (1990
Code §6-114)
4-3-10: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself to be an
officer of the City, or to attempt to impersonate any such officer, or, without
authority, perform any official act therein on behalf of an officer. (1990 Code
§6-115)
4-3-11: FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter without payment of
the proper admission fees any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties, to any place of public
entertainment or amusement. (1990 Code §6-116)
4-3-12: GAMBLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play, or conduct, either as owner,
employee or lessee, whether for hire or not, any games of faro, monte,
roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, rondo, Indian stick game, or any game
played with cards, dice or any other device for money, checks, credit or other
representative of value. (1990 Code §6-118)
4-3-13: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, resist, delay, obstruct,
molest or threaten to molest any officer of the City in the exercise of his
official duties. (1990 Code §6-126)
4-3-14: OFFENSES CONCERNING PRISONERS:
   A.   Aid In Escape: It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any
person to escape from lawful confinement, or to assist any person to escape
from the custody of any peace officer. (1990 Code §6-102)
   B.   Escape From Custody: It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of
any offense or in lawful custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(1990 Code §6-112)
   C.   Furnishing Weapons And Other Articles To Prisoners: It shall be
unlawful for any person to furnish, or attempt to furnish, or take into jail,
or to deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any prisoner therein confined, or in
the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug or
other article without the consent of the officer in charge. (1990 Code §6-117)
4-3-15: KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classed as junk, adjacent to or in close proximity to
any school house, church, public park, public grounds, business buildings or
residence without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of
the same. (1990 Code §6-121)
4-3-16: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS, OTHER CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave or permit to
remain outside any dwelling, building or other structure or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his control
in a place accessible to children, or to deposit in the City refuse disposal
dump, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container which has a door, lid, snap lock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside without first removing said door, lid, snap
lock or other locking device, or by first fastening, bolting or locking the
same in such a manner that it is impossible to open the same by the use of the
hands. (1990 Code §6-401)
4-3-17: DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON THOROUGHFARES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or
upon public thoroughfares any material or substances injurious to person or
property. (1990 Code §6-107)
4-3-18: MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously injure, deface,
mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with or molest or
secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or under the
control of any person. (1990 Code §6-123)
4-3-19: RIOT:
It shall be unlawful when two (2) or more persons assemble for the purpose of
disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or for
any such person to fail or refuse to immediately disperse upon an order to do
so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for any person, except public
officers and persons assisting in preserving the peace, to remain present at
the place of such riot, rout or unlawful assembly. (1990 Code §6-127)
4-3-20: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assembly together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act, and to not disperse upon the command of an officer so to do. (1990 Code
§6-130)
4-3-21: NOISE:
   A.   Purpose; Council Authority: The purpose of this section is the
protection of health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City. It is
determined that sound can and does constitute a hazard to the health, safety,
welfare and the quality of life of the residents of the City. The Mayor and
Council, by way of Idaho Code section 50-308, are empowered to impose
reasonable limitations and regulations upon the production of sound to reduce
the harmful effect thereof.
   B.   Definition: "Loud or offensive noise" is that which is plainly audible
within any place of residence, business, hospital, farm property with animals
or restaurants other than the source of the sound, or upon a public right-of-
way or street at a distance of one hundred feet (100') or more from the source
of the sound.
   C.   Public Noise Prohibited: Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
one day and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the next day, it shall be unlawful for
any person or business to make, cause, or allow loud or offensive noise by
means of voice, musical instrument, horn, radio, loudspeaker, automobile,
machinery or other sound amplifying equipment or any other means which disturbs
the peace, quiet and comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness
residing in the area.
   D.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 283, 11-2-2017)
4-3-22: RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Interference Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly
to operate, cause to be operated or permit the operation of any wire for
carrying electric energy or any fixtures, machine, device, apparatus or other
instrument, the operation of which shall cause reasonable preventable
electrical interference with radio or television reception. (1990 Code §4-201)
   B.   Inspection: The City Clerk-Treasurer or the County Sheriff or any other
designated person of the City, shall have the right at any reasonable hour to
enter upon and into any premises for the purpose of inspecting or locating any
wires, fixtures, machines, devices, apparatus, or other instruments which are
or may be kept or operated in violation of the provisions of this section.
Should any inspection disclose that any equipment described in this section be
defective, then the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify in writing the owner or
occupant of said premises, or the operator of said equipment, of the defects
and suggest steps to be taken to remedy such defects. Upon receipt of such
written notice, such owner, occupant or operator shall forthwith take effective
steps to remedy such defects. (1990 Code §4-202; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3-23: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS; SHOOTING GALLERIES:
   A.   Definition: Whenever the term "firearms" is used in this section, the
term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets
or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by
the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and
including what are commonly known as air rifles and BB guns. (1990 Code §6-201)
   B.   Concealed Weapons: Concealed weapons regulations shall be in accordance
with State Statute. (2018 Code)
   C.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
firearms of any kind or description within the limits of the City; provided,
however, that this shall not apply to police officers in the discharge of their
duties. (1990 Code §6-203)
   D.   Shooting Galleries Or Gun Clubs: The City Council may, at any time upon
application, grant permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for
shooting within the City limits in fixed localities and under fixed rules. Such
permits shall be in writing attested by the Clerk-Treasurer conforming to such
requirements as the City Council shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall
be subject to revocation at any time by action of the City Council. (1990 Code
§6-204)
4-3-24: TRESPASSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down any
bars, or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the consent
of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof. (1990 Code §6-129)
4-3-25: VAGRANCY:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: Every person without visible means of support, lawful
occupation or employment, who has a physical ability to work, and who does not
seek employment or labor, nor labor when employment is offered him; every
person who shall be found seeking alms as a business or means of support; or
who associates with known thieves or persons of questionable character or
occupation, or who lodges in any other place than is kept for lodging purposes
without the permission of the owner of the property or the person in possession
thereof; every male person who lives in or about houses of ill fame or bawdy
houses, or for any person to habitually consort with common prostitutes,
habitual drunkards, or any user of narcotics, is hereby defined to be a
vagrant.
   B.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person who shall be convicted of being a
vagrant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code §6-131)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Curfew
4-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Prohibited Hours: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any minor
(male or female), seventeen (17) years of age or under to be in any public
place or to be upon any street, alley or public grounds within the City between
the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on
the nights of Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Friday
and Saturday except under the following conditions:
      1.   In attendance at or going to or from a recognized school function.
      2.   In attendance at or going to or from a supervised public, fraternal
or church activity.
      3.   With written permission from a parent or legal guardian for a
specific purpose, and only for a specific date and time. Any blanket permission
shall be considered as being no permission.
      4.   Any proven emergency situation.
      5.   When accompanied by parent(s) or legal guardian.
   B.   Responsibility Of Parents And/Or Guardians: Any parent, parents, legal
guardian or other adult persons having custody or control of any minor or
minors permitting, allowing or abetting said minor or minors to violate
subsection A of this section on a second or subsequent occasion shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the Youth Rehabilitation Act relating to "encouraging
violations", and the finding that said minor or minors have violated said
section for a second or subsequent time shall be presumptive proof of the
encouraging of a violation of the Youth Rehabilitation Act by said minor or
minors.
   C.   Presumption Of Presence On Street:
      1.   The finding of any minor seventeen (17) years of age or under upon
the streets, alleys or public places within the City during the prohibited
hours without written permission or without a lawfully appearing excuse shall
be prima facie showing of a violation of this section, and upon such showing,
any police officer shall detain said minor or minors for a reasonable time in
order to notify said minor's parent, parents, legal guardian or other adult
having custody or control to pick up said minor or minors at the place of
detention, and a written record, constituting a warning, shall be maintained by
the County Sheriff's Department.
      2.   Upon a second or subsequent violation of this section, minor/minors
and the parent, parents, legal guardian or other person having custody may be
charged with the misdemeanor violation of this section or the laws of the
State. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Animals And Poultry Running At Large
4-5-2: Tying Livestock
4-5-3: Impounding Animals
4-5-4: Sale Of Impounded Animals
4-5-5: Freeing Impounded Animals Prohibited
4-5-6: Animals On Sidewalks
4-5-7: Cruelty To Animals
4-5-8: Dead Animals
4-5-1: ANIMALS AND POULTRY RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any horse,
cattle, goats, sheep, pigs or hogs or other livestock to run at large in the
City at any time during the year, and it shall be unlawful for anyone to herd
or drive any of the above named animals through the streets without having said
animals under control by means of rope, strap or other device by which they may
be led, unless such animal is being driven in harness or hauled. (1990 Code §6-
501)
   B.   Poultry Or Fowl: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep fowl or
poultry unless such fowl or poultry are at all times kept upon his own premises
and in enclosures. (1990 Code §6-502)
4-5-2: TYING LIVESTOCK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tie livestock within reach of any
sidewalk or crosswalk or within reach of the fences, buildings, improvements,
trees or shrubbery of any other person within the City or tie livestock to any
telephone or utility pole within the City. (1990 Code §6-503)
4-5-3: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS:
If any animal shall be found running at large contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, it is hereby made the duty of the County Sheriff or Deputy
Sheriff to take and corner the same in a secure place or other place provided
for that purpose and such animal taken up and confined shall not be released
until the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof shall pay to the
officer having such animal in keeping the following: In addition to the cost of
advertising and keeping each animal taken up under this chapter the County
Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff shall collect three dollars ($3.00) for impounding
the same, said fee to be retained by him for his services and also one dollar
($1.00) for each day he shall have kept the same and ten percent (10%) of the
sales, and the same shall be turned into the Treasury. (1990 Code §6-504; amd.
2018 Code)
4-5-4: SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Notice And Sale: If the owner or person entitled to the possession of
an animal within five (5) days from the time it is so taken into custody does
not pay the charges and take it away, it shall be lawful for the County Sheriff
or Deputy Sheriff, having such animal in a cage, to sell at public auction said
animal; having given at least five (5) days' notice of the time and place of
said sale by posting the same in five (5) public places in the City, and a copy
of said notice shall also be served upon the owner or possessor of any said
animal if known, at least five (5) days before the sale, but any such animal
may be redeemed at any time before the sale by the payment to the officer or
his assistant, fees, expenses and charges heretofore provided herein. (1990
Code §6-505; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Revenue From Sale: In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter be sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges
aforesaid, such excess shall be by the office or his assistant making the sale,
deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer which shall be paid upon an order of the
City Council to the owner of such animal or animals or to the person entitled
to the possession of the same upon claim and proper proof within six (6) months
from the date of said sale. (1990 Code §6-506)
4-5-5: FREEING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to break open or in any manner, directly or indirectly,
aid or assist in breaking open a pen or enclosure with intent of releasing any
animal confined therein pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code
§6-507)
4-5-6: ANIMALS ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, lead or drive any horse, mule,
sheep, pig, goat or cattle upon any sidewalk within the City. (1990 Code §6-
104)
4-5-7: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to overdrive, overload, or drive when
overloaded, or overwork, or cruelly beat, mutilate, torture, torment or deprive
of sustenance or abandon, or neglect any animal. (1990 Code §6-106)
4-5-8: DEAD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dead animal in the City to leave the
carcass thereof exposed. (1990 Code §6-113)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Purpose
4-5A-2: Definitions
4-5A-3: Licensing Requirements; Fees
4-5A-4: License And Nonlicense Tags; Transfers
4-5A-5: Maximum Number Of Dogs Per Household
4-5A-6: Rabies Quarantine
4-5A-7: Impoundment Of Dogs; Disposition; Fees
4-5A-8: Running At Large Prohibited
4-5A-9: Female Dogs In Heat; Destruction Of Certain Dogs
4-5A-10: Dangerous Dogs; Restrictions; Licensing
4-5A-11: Enforcement; Animal Control Officers
4-5A-12: Interference Prohibited
4-5A-13: Kennel License
4-5A-14: Additional Offenses
4-5A-15: Violations And Remedies Cumulative
4-5A-16: Penalties For Violations
4-5A-17: Liability For Damage To Property
4-5A-18: City Immunity
4-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for regulation of the harboring of
dogs within the City limits, to promote public safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City, and to promote the welfare of dogs harbored within the
City limits. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise indicates, the following words and terms used in
this article shall mean:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   The Lewis County Sheriff or Deputy; and
   B.   Any other person(s) designated by resolution of the City Council of
Winchester, as an animal control officer as provided in this article.
AT LARGE/RUN AT LARGE: A dog is "at large" or "running at large" if it is off
its harborer's premises and not under control of a person.
BITE: Any closure by an animal's mouth causing a redness, breaking, or tearing
of the skin of any person or which materially damages or destroys the personal
property of another.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog declared dangerous as provided in this article.
DOG: Any member, male or female, of the family of Canis Familiaris.
HARBOR/HARBORING: To own or keep a dog within the City limits of the City of
Winchester. It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is harboring a dog
for the purposes of this article if the person: a) is listed as the owner or
harborer of the dog within the City of Winchester on any application for dog
licensing; b) is over eighteen (18) years of age and resides at or is in
physical control of a premises, or part thereof, on which a dog remains or to
which it customarily returns daily for food or shelter for three (3)
consecutive days or more.
HARBORER: Any person who owns a dog or keeps a dog within the City limits of
the City of Winchester.
HARBORER'S PREMISES: All real property under a harborer's ownership, lease, or
control inside the inner line of a sidewalk, or if there is no sidewalk, inside
of the curb, ditch or shoulder marking the edge of the traveled or used portion
of the public right-of-way. Premises also includes the inside of a closed motor
vehicle.
KENNEL: Any premises, other than a veterinary office, animal shelter, grooming
facility, or pet shop, on which three (3) or more dogs are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for.
LEASH: A leash, lead cord, which may not be more than ten feet (10') in length,
by which a dog is physically controlled by the person accompanying it.
NEUTERED DOG: Any male or female dog rendered incapable of reproducing
offspring by surgery or other veterinary medical procedure.
OWNER: Legal owner of a dog.
UNDER CONTROL: A dog is under control if:
   A.   The dog is confined within the boundaries of the harborer's premises;
or
   B.   The dog is not on the harborer's premises but is: 1) confined within a
vehicle; or 2) in the control of a responsible person by use of a leash not
exceeding ten feet (10') in length.
VETERINARY CLINIC OR HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnosis, treatment,
and care of diseased or injured animals.
(Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a dog within the City
limits not licensed as provided by this article.
      2.   No license shall be required for dogs which are harbored within the
City limits by the owner thereof if the owner: a) is not a resident of the
City; and b) the dog is harbored less than thirty (30) consecutive days within
the City; and c) the dog is validly licensed by another government licensing
authority.
   B.   Application And Information Required:
      1.   All licenses required under this article shall be issued by the City
Clerk-Treasurer. In addition to payment of all required fees, all applicants
for dog licenses shall provide the following information to the Clerk-Treasurer
as a condition precedent to issuance of a license:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the owner; and
         b.   The name, address and phone number of the harborer if different
from the owner; and
         c.   The name, age, breed and gender of the dog; and
         d.   An accurate photograph of the dog or a written description of the
weight, size, color and distinguishing characteristics of the dog; and
         e.   Whether the dog has been neutered; and
         f.   Proof of current rabies vaccination; and
         g.   Whether the dog has been declared a dangerous or vicious dog by
any government authority.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly provide false
information on any application or in applying for any license under this
article.
   C.   Denial Of License:
      1.   Except as may be directed by resolution of the City Council, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall refuse to issue or renew any license to any person
who:
         a.   Fails to provide any information required to be submitted under
subsection B1 of this section or fails to pay the required license fee; or
         b.   Knowingly provides false information in making application for
any license under this article; or
         c.   Applies for licensing of a dog that has been declared a dangerous
or vicious dog by any governmental authority if disclosed by the applicant or
otherwise made known to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Nothing herein shall require
the Clerk- Treasurer to undertake any independent inquiry of this issue with
any person or governmental authority other than the applicant.
      2.   In the event the City Clerk-Treasurer shall deny the applicant a
license or renewal, the applicant may apply to the City Council for issuance of
a license. The City Council may issue said license by resolution of the Council
on such terms and conditions as the City Council shall deem in the best
interest of the City.
   D.   License Fees:
      1.   The license fees for dogs shall be as follows:
         a.   Neutered dog: Five dollars ($5.00) per year.
         b.   Unneutered dog: Seven dollars ($7.00) per year.
         c.   Replacement tag: Two dollars ($2.00) per year.
         d.   Kennel: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year.
      2.   No lifetime licenses shall be issued.
   E.   License Term:
      1.   All licenses issued under this article shall expire at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of the year in which the license is
issued. A license for the succeeding calendar year may be obtained prior to the
expiration of the current year's license but shall not be effective until the
expiration of the current license. No part of any dog license fee shall be
refundable. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-4: LICENSE AND NONLICENSE TAGS; TRANSFERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog harbored by the
person to wear any license tag or insignia of licensing other than a valid
license tag issued under this article for the dog wearing the tag. This section
shall not prohibit the wearing of nonlicense tags for the purpose of
identification, proof of vaccination or similar tags if the dog is wearing a
valid current license tag issued under this article for the dog.
   B.   All licenses and tags issued under this article or predecessor
ordinances shall be nontransferable.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or attempt to transfer
to another person any license or tag issued under this article or predecessor
ordinances. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-5: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS PER HOUSEHOLD:
There shall be no more than two (2) licensed dogs permitted per household or
per harborer, unless the same is qualified and licensed as a kennel. (Ord. 223,
5-5-1997)
4-5A-6: RABIES QUARANTINE:
The animal control officer shall have the authority to order the harborer of
any dog showing symptoms of rabies or any dog which has bitten any person to
subject the dog to the City Pound, veterinarian or any other place in the
business of boarding dogs for quarantine for a period not to exceed fifteen
(15) days, or for such other periods as indicated by a licensed veterinarian as
necessary to determine if the subject dog is infected with rabies. If the dog
is determined to be free of rabies, the dog shall be returned to the harborer
upon payment of one hundred percent (100%) of the regular fee for the keeping
of dogs impounded. If the fee is not paid, the dog shall be subject to disposal
as provided is this article. In lieu of submitting the dog to impoundment, the
harborer may at their expense admit the dog to a licensed veterinarian for
examination and provide the City with a certification that the dog is free from
rabies. Any dog afflicted with rabies shall be disposed of immediately, either
by the harborer or the animal control officer. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-7: IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS; DISPOSITION; FEES:
   A.   Authorization:
      1.   All dogs found running at large within the City limits may be
impounded by the animal control officer by the use of a tranquilizer gun or
other humane means of dog control.
      2.   If a dog is impounded, the animal control officer shall undertake a
reasonable inquiry to determine the identity of the owner or harborer of the
dog. Reasonable inquiry shall consist of and be limited to: a) examining any
tags affixed to any collar worn by the dog at the time of impoundment; and b)
examining the dog licensing records of the City. In the event the identity of
the owner or harborer of the dog is determined from said inquiry, the animal
control officer shall serve the owner or harborer of the dog with written
notice of the impoundment by: a) personal service; or b) regular first class
U.S. mail addressed to the last known mailing address of the owner or harborer
as shown by the records of the City Clerk- Treasurer, with service being
effective on the date of mailing. No such notice shall be required if the
identity of the owner or harborer is not determined from said inquiry.
      3.   The owner or harborer of any dog which may be taken up and impounded
under the provisions of this article may recover possession of the dog upon
payment to the City of any license fees, impoundment fees, and other costs
provided in this article.
   B.   Disposition Of Impounded Dogs: If the owner or harborer of any
impounded dog fails to pay any required fees and costs under this article
within seven (7) days after the date of service of any written notice required
under this section, or within five (5) days of the date of impoundment if no
notice is required, the animal control officer may dispose of the dog:
      1.   By delivering it to any person who will pay all fees and costs due;
or
      2.   By destroying the dog in a humane manner.
   C.   Payment Of Fees And Costs Prior To Release: Impounded dogs shall not be
released until the owner or harborer pays to the City Clerk-Treasurer:
      1.   Ten dollars ($10.00) capture fee; and
      2.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day impoundment fee each day of
impoundment; and
      3.   If the dog has not been issued a valid current City dog license
required under this article, a license fee as provided by this article; and
      4.   Any other reasonable costs and expenses of impoundment incurred by
the City in impounding the dog, including any veterinary expenses reasonably
incurred. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-8: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any harborer of a dog to permit a harbored dog to:
   A.   Be or run at large; or
   B.   Go or remain upon any public premises not owned by, leased by, or in
the control of the harborer without consent of the owner or occupier of the
private premises. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-9: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT; DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS:
All persons harboring any female dog shall keep it shut up when in heat. Any
female dog running at large at such season may be disposed of by the animal
control officer without giving any notice required under section
4-5A-7 of this article or otherwise. The animal control officer may also
dispose of by destroying in a humane manner, any dog found running at large
which, in the judgment of the animal control officer:
   A.   Displays symptoms of contagious disease; or
   B.   Displays serious physical injury or illness and that the animal control
officer deems, in the officer's sole discretion, that it is necessary to
destroy the dog to prevent further suffering; or
   C.   Displays vicious or aggressive behavior which poses imminent risk of
physical injury to any person and the dog cannot, in the discretion of the
animal control officer, be taken into control for impoundment by reasonable
humane methods. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-10: DANGEROUS DOGS; RESTRICTIONS; LICENSING:
   A.   Harboring: It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a dangerous
dog within the City limits except as provided in this article.
   B.   License Issuance Or Renewal: The City Clerk-Treasurer shall not issue
or renew any dog license for any dog that has been declared a dangerous dog by
the City, or dangerous, vicious or other similar classification by any
government authority, except as may be provided by resolution of the City
Council.
   C.   Declaration As Dangerous Dog; Appeal; Hearing:
      1.   The animal control officer may declare a dog to be a dangerous dog
if, upon investigation of any complaint, incident or information otherwise
provided, the animal control officer finds that:
         a.   The dog has, whether or not under control, aggressively bitten
any person, domestic animal or fowl or maliciously damaged or destroyed
property of another; or
         b.   The dog has been declared dangerous, vicious or other similar
declaration by any governmental authority.
      2.   If the animal control officer makes said declaration, the animal
control officer shall notify the owner or harborer of the declaration and the
manner and time limits in which an appeal of the declaration may be taken. Said
notice shall be in writing and served by: a) personal service; or b) regular
first class U.S. mail addressed to the last known mailing address of the owner
or harborer as shown by the records of the City Clerk-Treasurer, with service
being effective on the date of mailing.
      3.   The animal control officer may impound any dog declared to be
dangerous, including, but not limited to, impounding of the dog during the
pendency of any appeal proceeding. The owner and harborer of the dog shall be
liable for all costs and fees of impounding regardless of the final disposition
of the case.
      4.   The owner or harborer of a dog declared dangerous shall have five
(5) business days from the date of service of the written declaration to
request a hearing appealing the declaration. The request for hearing shall be
in writing, identify the name, address and telephone number of the requesting
party, and shall be served upon the City Clerk- Treasurer within the time limit
above provided. In the event no hearing is requested within the time and in the
manner above provided, the animal control officer may dispose of the dog as
provided by subsection 4-5A-7B of this article without further notice to the
owner or harborer.
      5.   If a hearing is requested, a hearing shall be held within seven (7)
days of the date the request for hearing is received by the City Clerk-
Treasurer, or at such other time as is agreed to by the requesting party.
         a.   The Mayor and two (2) City Council members appointed by the Mayor
shall constitute the hearing panel and shall hear the appeal. The hearing shall
be informal and the Idaho Rules of Evidence shall not apply. The owner,
harborer and the animal control officer or other representative of the City
shall be given the opportunity to submit evidence, present witnesses and be
heard on the matter, including the right of cross- examination.
         b.   In determining whether the dog is dangerous, the hearing panel
may consider, among other evidence, past incidents, provocation for the
dangerous behavior, whether the conduct occurred on the premises and any other
fact or allegation relating to the incident from which the declaration arises.
      6.   If the hearing panel shall find that the declaration was proper, the
hearing panel shall either:
         a.   Direct the animal control officer to dispose of the dog as
provided by subsection
4-5A-7B of this article; or
         b.   Direct that the dog may be released to the owner or harborer on
such conditions as the hearing panel shall deem in the best interest of the
City, which may include, but are not limited to: 1) the dog will be removed
from the City limits immediately following release and not be allowed to
return; 2) requiring the owner or harborer to take steps sufficient to confine
the dog in a manner to prevent harm to the public; and 3) requiring the owner
or harborer to provide a surety bond or proof of liability insurance for
compensation of those who may suffer injury by reason of harboring of a
dangerous dog.
      7.   The decision of the hearing panel shall become final unless the
decision is appealed to the District Court within three (3) days following the
date of the decision. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-11: ENFORCEMENT; ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS:
   A.   The Lewis County law enforcement are hereby appointed and designated as
animal control officers of the City. In addition to all authority granted to
them for general enforcement laws as peace officers, said officers are further
authorized and directed to enforce all portions of this article and perform all
duties of animal control under this article.
   B.   The City Council may appoint such additional persons as it deems
necessary and proper to act as animal control officer(s) who shall be under the
supervision and control of the Mayor. Any such appointment shall be reflected
in the minutes of the City Council or by resolution of the City Council. The
compensation and terms and conditions of contracting or employment of such
person shall be determined from time to time by the City Council.
   C.   All persons designated as animal control officers under this article
may undertake any action or duty as animal control officer provided under this
article concurrently, jointly or individually. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-12: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly hinder, molest or
interfere with any animal control officer in the discharge of any of his duties
under this article.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to remove or remove any
dog or dogs from the City Pound or the possession of the animal control officer
without the consent of the animal control officer or otherwise as provided by
this article. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-13: KENNEL LICENSE:
No person shall operate or maintain a kennel within the City without first
obtaining a license therefor. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-14: ADDITIONAL OFFENSES:
In addition to other provisions of this article:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person harboring or in control of a dog
to:
      1.   Permit the dog to scatter garbage, refuse or debris; or
      2.   Permit the dog to chase any person, vehicle or domestic animal; or
      3.   Permit the dog to deposit fecal material on any property not that of
its owner or harborer without immediately removing the same from the property;
or
      4.   Permit the dog to bark, howl, or otherwise cause noise in a manner
which unreasonably disturbs, or is likely to disturb, the peace and quiet of
any person; or
      5.   Harbor one or more dogs in such a manner that the keeping of the dog
results in nauseous, foul or offensive odor or so as to create a public
nuisance; or
      6.   Harbor a dog and fail to provide the dog with food, water, shelter
or necessary veterinary care, which shall include a rabies vaccination every
three (3) years.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, abuse or otherwise engage
in cruel or inhumane treatment of a dog. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-15: VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
The violations, punishments and remedies provided in this article shall be
cumulative with other provisions of this Code, State and Federal laws, and the
City may cause any conduct or condition in violation of this article
constituting a public nuisance to be abated as a public nuisance in the manner
provided by law. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-16: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
In addition to other penalties and remedies provided by this article, any
person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The following minimum sentences shall be imposed as follows in all
cases:
   A.   Upon conviction for a first offense, a minimum fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) plus court costs shall be assessed.
   B.   Upon conviction for a second offense, a minimum of seventy five dollars
($75.00) plus court costs shall be assessed.
   C.   Upon conviction for a third or subsequent offense, a minimum fine of
three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs shall be assessed.
   D.   Upon conviction for a fourth offense involving the same animal and/or
the same owner, the animal shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal
control officer. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-17: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
The owner or harborer of any dog that does damage to property of another shall
be liable to the owner of the property damaged for the damages and costs of
suit. In the prosecution of actions for such damages, it is not necessary for
the plaintiff to show that the owner or harborer of such dog has knowledge of
the fact that such dog was doing damage to the property. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
4-5A-18: CITY IMMUNITY:
The City, its officials, employees, animal control officers and agents shall
not be liable for any acts or omissions in performing duties arising from this
article and shall be immune from suit on any claims arising by reason of any
such alleged act or omission. (Ord. 223, 5-5-1997)
CHAPTER 6
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
4-6-1: City Policy
4-6-2: Enforcement
4-6-3: Affirmative Action Program
4-6-1: CITY POLICY:
The City does hereby adopt, for the purpose of providing for equal housing
within the City, a prohibition against discrimination in housing on the basis
of race, color, religion, sex, disability or national origin. Such
discrimination may not occur in the sale, rental, lease, financing of homes or
land to be used for the construction of homes or lands or in the provision of
brokerage services within the City.
(1990 Code §4-405; amd. 2018 Code)
4-6-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The City of Winchester, being a small City and having no means of investigating
or conciliating complaints filed alleging discrimination in housing will,
therefore, assist all persons who feel they have been discriminated against
because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or national origin to seek
equity under the law, by filing a complaint through the City with the Idaho
Human Rights Commission or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Seattle Regional Office Compliance Division.
(1990 Code §4-406; amd. 2018 Code)
4-6-3: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM:
   A.   The City will become actively involved in any Voluntary Affirmative
Marketing Agreement as entered into by any local or State Board of Realtors and
the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   B.   But, the City will take efforts as are appropriate to the community to
establish a Voluntary Areawide Equal Opportunity Plan between the City and the
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   C.   The City will create a fair housing program for owners, tenants,
lenders, prospective buyers and developers or builders to educate them as to
respective rights under the law concerning title VIII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1968 as well as any local and State Fair Housing Laws, ordinances and
resolutions.
   D.   This program will include, but not be limited to, the printing of and
publicizing of this chapter and other information through local media such as
newspapers and radio stations; also distributing posters and fliers and any
other means which will bring to the attention of those affected, the knowledge
of their respective rights concerning equal opportunity. (1990 Code §4-407)
TITLE 5
TRAFFIC, PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Excavations
5-1-2: Snow And Ice Removal
5-1-3: Trees And Shrubbery
5-1-4: Sidewalk Construction And Repair
5-1-1: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Open Excavations: No landowner or tenant shall permit an excavation for
a basement, or other excavation hazardous to human life, to remain open on land
owned or occupied by any person, firm or corporation without covering the same
securely to prevent injuries to persons; provided, however, that the same may
remain open during the course of construction or for the purpose of cleaning
the same. (1990 Code §4-101)
   B.   Warning Signs Required: No excavation hazardous to human life shall be
permitted to remain open unless the same is properly safeguarded at all times
by barricades and warning signs. (1990 Code §4-102)
   C.   Abandoned Excavations: All excavations, hazardous to human life, which
are no longer in use or have been abandoned shall be filled with earth to the
level of the surrounding ground. An excavation for the basement of a building
shall be deemed to have been abandoned when construction has stopped for a
period of thirty (30) days. (1990 Code §4-103)
   D.   Hazardous Excavations: Any excavation shall be determined to be prima
facie hazardous to human life if its depth exceeds two feet (2'). (1990 Code
§4-104)
5-1-2: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal Required: The owner, tenant or occupant of any premises within
the City abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk shall remove all snow and
ice from any such sidewalk. (1990 Code §9-101)
   B.   Giving Notice: It shall be the duty of the City to notify any owner,
tenant or occupant of property herein described to remove or otherwise correct
the objectionable matter herein legislated against, which notice shall be sent
by registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant,
notifying him that he has a period of twenty four (24) hours from and after
receipt of such notice, within which to correct or otherwise remove the
objections set forth in said notice. (1990 Code §9-102)
   C.   Failure To Comply; City Removal: Upon failure of the owner, tenant or
occupant of said premises to comply with the terms and conditions of said
notice, then and in that event the City shall have the right to remove such
snow and ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the
sidewalk. Such assessment shall be certified to the County Assessor or other
proper County officials having charge of the making of the assessment roll, and
such assessment shall be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the
same manner as other City Taxes are collected. (1990 Code §9-103)
5-1-3: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming Trees: Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim
all trees on property owned or occupied by him, overhanging the sidewalks,
streets or alleys, so that the branches thereon will not interfere with
pedestrians or public travel. (1990 Code §9-201)
   B.   Hedges And Shrubbery: Any owner or occupant of any real property shall
trim all hedges and shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of
said hedges and/or shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in
the City. (1990 Code §9-202)
   C.   Injury To Trees Or Shrubbery: It is hereby declared unlawful for any
person, not the owner thereof, or without lawful authority to do so, to
wilfully injure, deface, disfigure or destroy any fruit, and/or ornamental tree
or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or plant growing,
standing, or being either on private ground or any street, parking, public park
or place within the City. (1990 Code §9-203)
   D.   Trees Outside Property Line: The City Council is hereby given full and
complete control over all trees growing within the confines of the limits of
the City which are outside the property lines of the respective lots, plots and
tracts. (1990 Code §9-204)
5-1-4: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   A.   Inspection; Council Determination: The City Council shall designate one
of its members whose duty it shall be to inspect all sidewalks within the City
and report to the Council, where in his judgment the construction of a new
sidewalk is necessary, and all cases where there is no existing sidewalk, and
in his judgment it is necessary for a sidewalk to be constructed. After
considering such report and recommendation, the Council shall make its
determination. Said member shall report such fact to the Council with his
recommendation. Whenever the Council, after considering such report and
recommendation, in their judgment deem it necessary to require property owners
within the City to construct or repair sidewalks, they shall take recorded
action in an official City Council meeting, naming the owner and location of
property abutting it which it is in such meeting determined sidewalks shall be
constructed and repaired. (1990 Code §9-301)
   B.   Notice To Construct: When any sidewalk is ordered to be constructed or
reconstructed, under the provisions of this section, the Clerk-Treasurer, as
soon as may be, shall serve notice in writing upon the property owner, or any
resident agent of the property owner, directing such sidewalk to be constructed
or reconstructed, of the materials and according to the specifications in force
in the district where such is to be constructed or reconstructed, and
describing the premises adjacent to which such construction is to be made. The
service of such notice may be made by delivery of a copy thereof to the owner
or his agent, or if neither is to be found within the City by mailing a copy
thereof to the owner at his last known post office address, and service by mail
shall be deemed complete upon the expiration of five (5) days from the date of
the mailing of such notice. (1990 Code §9-302)
   C.   Failure To Construct: If the work of building such sidewalk in
accordance with the notice served by the Clerk-Treasurer is not begun within
ten (10) days after the serving of such notice, or if after having been begun,
the same is not completed within a reasonable time thereafter, the Mayor and
the Council shall notify the City Clerk-Treasurer of such fact and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall call for bids by publication for two (2) consecutive issues in
some newspaper published in or having a general circulation in the City for the
construction and completion of such sidewalk. Such bids shall be returned by
the Clerk-Treasurer to the Mayor and opened and considered at the next or any
general or special meeting; and after laying over not less than one day, the
contract for the construction or completion of such sidewalk shall be let to
the lowest and best reasonable bidder, and the work of construction or
reconstruction shall be performed under the general supervision of the Public
Works Director. (1990 Code §9-303)
   D.   Repairs: When any sidewalk within the City is in such condition as in
the judgment of the City Council to require repairs thereof to be made, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall serve upon the owner or his agent a written notice to
make such repairs, describing the same in general terms, which notice may
require the repairs to be made within such reasonable time, not exceeding ten
(10) days after the service of such notice as may, in the opinion of the
Council, be deemed necessary, and if such repairs be not made within the time
required by such notice, the same shall thereupon be made by the Public Works
Director. (1990 Code §9-304)
   E.   Serving Of Itemized Statement; Collection: Upon the completion of the
construction or repairs, the costs thereof shall be paid out of any
unappropriated monies in the General Fund of the City or such other fund as may
be designated by the City Council. As soon as may be thereafter, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall serve upon the owner of such property, or his agent, in the
same manner as the notice to construct sidewalks is authorized to be served, an
itemized statement of the costs of such construction, reconstruction or repair,
and if the costs thereof be not paid within five (5) days after such service,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver a copy of such itemized statement to the City
Attorney who shall proceed to collect the same. (1990 Code §9-305)
   F.   Duties Of City Attorney; Lien: Upon the receiving of any such
statement, the City Attorney shall, as soon as may be, bring suit in any court
having jurisdiction, for the recovery of the monies expended by the City in the
construction, reconstruction or repair of such sidewalk, or shall file a lien
upon the property abutting upon such sidewalk. Such lien shall be verified and
shall be filed and foreclosed as in the case of other liens under the general
laws of the State of Idaho and amendments which may hereafter be made thereto,
and from the date of the filing of the same, the costs of such construction,
maintenance and repairs shall be and remain a lien upon the property described
as in the case of other liens. (1990 Code §9-306; amd. 2018 Code)
   G.   Hearing On Notice To Construct: Any time after the service of the
notice to construct, reconstruct or repair, as hereinbefore provided, and
before the expiration of the time specified therein, the owner or agent upon
whom such service was made may appear before the City Council at any general or
special meeting and show cause why the order for such construction,
reconstruction, or repair should be revoked. The City shall hear and determine
such application informally and such application shall not extend the period
within which the work is to be begun unless otherwise ordered by the City
Council. (1990 Code §9-307)
CHAPTER 2
BILL POSTING AND HANDBILLS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Littering Public Thoroughfares
5-2-2: Posting On Fences, Walls Or Poles
5-2-3: Penalty
5-2-1: LITTERING PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or throw upon the streets,
sidewalks, alleys or other public thoroughfares of the City, any handbills,
posters, advertisements or papers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
authorize any person to obstruct the public streets, sidewalks, alleys or
thoroughfares of the City or create any nuisance therein. The provisions of
this chapter shall not interfere or prevent the posting of notices required by
law to be posted. (1990 Code §5-601)
5-2-2: POSTING ON FENCES, WALLS OR POLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise
attach any notice or other advertising matter to any fence, wall or building or
other property until first obtaining the consent of the owner of such property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise
attach any notice or advertising matter to any telephone, electric or other
such poles. (1990 Code §5-602)
5-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §5-603)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Angle Parking
5-3-3: Parking Citations
5-3-4: Snowmobiles
5-3-5: Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
5-3-6: Stopping for Loading Or Unloading Only
5-3-7: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Restricted Or Prohibited On Certain
Streets
5-3-8: When Lewis County Sheriff Or Deputies Remove Parked Cars: Costs
5-3-9: Removal Of Unidentified, Stolen, Wrecked Or Abandoned Motor Vehicles And
Charges Therefor
5-3-10: Enforcement Of County's Lien On Properties Impounded By Lewis County
Sheriff’s Department
5-3-11: Proof Of Ownership; Appeal; Redemption After Sale
5-3-12: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in the Chapter shall for the purpose
of this Chapter have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section:
ALLEY:        That thoroughfare which intersects blocks at the rear of the lots of said blocks
              or transverses between regularly established streets.
AUTHORIZED    Vehicles of the Fire Department (Fire Patrol), police vehicles, and such
EMERGENCY     ambulances and emergency vehicles of the municipal departments or public service
VEHICLE:      corporations as the designated or authorized by the City Council.
BICYCLE:      Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two
              (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twenty (20) inches in diameter.
              The territory contiguous to and including a highway when within any six hundred
              (600) feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business or
BUSINESS      industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks or office
DISTRICT:     buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least three
              hundred (300) feet of frontage on one side or three hundred (300) feet
              collectively on both sides in use for business.
COMMERCIAL    Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for the transportation of
VEHICLE:      property.
CONTROLLED    Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which owners or occupants of
ACCESS        abutting property or lands and other persons have no legal right or access to or
HIGHWAY:      from the same, except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined
              by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway, street or roadway.
              A.   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the connections of
              the lateral lines of the sidewalk on opposite sides of the highway measured from
CROSSWALK:    the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of the traversable roadway.
              B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
              indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB LOADING  A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
ZONE:         loading or unloading of passengers for materials.
DRIVER:       Every person who drives or in actual physical control of a vehicle.
FREIGHT CURB  A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading
LOADING ZONE: or unloading of freight.
              The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral curb
              lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of the two
INTERSECTION: highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles, or the area
              which within vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any other
              angle may come in conflict.
LANED         A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for vehicular
ROADWAY:      traffic.
MOTOR         Every vehicle which is self-propelled, but not operated upon rails.
VEHICLES:
              Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and designed to
MOTORCYCLE:   travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding a
              tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean Pacific Standard Time.
STANDARD:
OFFICIAL      All signs, signals, markings, and devices not inconsistent with this Chapter
TRAFFIC-      placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction,
CONTROL       for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
DEVICES:
              When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not,
PARK:         otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
              loading or unloading.
PEDESTRIAN:   Any person afoot.
PERSON:       Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or corporation.
POLICE        Every officer of the County police department or any officer authorized to direct
OFFICER:      or regulate traffic or to make arrest for violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD  Every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular travel by the
OR DRIVEWAY:  owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not by
              other persons.
              The territory contiguous to and including a highway not comprising a business
RESIDENCE     district when the property on such highway for a distance of three hundred (300)
DISTRICT:     feet or more is in the main improved with residence or residences and buildings
              in use for business.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the road.
              That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
ROADWAY:      vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
              includes two or more separate roadways the term "roadway" as used herein shall
              refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
SIDEWALK:     That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a
              roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
STOP:         When required means complete cessation of movement.
STOP,         When prohibited means any stopping or standing of a vehicle whether occupied or
STOPPING OR   not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
STANDING:     with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
STREET OR     The entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly maintained way when
HIGHWAY:      any part thereof is open to the use of the public for the purpose of vehicular
              travel.
              Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which vehicular
THROUGH       traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by law to stop before
HIGHWAY:      entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in this
              act.
TRAFFIC:      Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances whether
              singly or together while using any public thoroughfare for the purpose of travel.
              Every devise in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported
VEHICLES:     or drawn upon a highway, except devises moved by human power or used exclusively
              upon stationary tracks or rails.
 
5-3-2: ANGLE PARKING:
The commissioner or Public Protection is hereby authorized to determine, from
time to time, which streets are of sufficient width to permit angle parking and
after determination that such parking is in the best interests of orderly
movement of traffic, of optimum use of available parking space and of public
safety may be written authorization, filed with the City Clerk, designate such
areas as angle parking only.
"Angle Parking" as used herein shall mean that any vehicle parked within such
an area shall be parked with the right front wheel of said vehicle against the
curb, or as near thereto as practical, with the angle formed between the
longitudinal axis of the vehicle and the curb line so the right-hand side of
the vehicle not more than 70 degrees nor less than 50 degrees. Within such
areas designated for angle parking, no other manner of parking shall be
permitted.
No vehicle or combination of vehicles with a maximum overall length of more
than twenty (20) feet shall be parked in an area designated for angle parking.
Any area designated for angle parking shall be signed as required by Section
5-3-6 of the Revised and Compiled Ordinances of the City of Winchester, and
applicable laws of the State of Idaho.
This section shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and
more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
5-3-3: PARKING CITATIONS:
Pursuant to Idaho Code 50-3-15A and Rule 14(c)(1) OF THE Idaho Supreme Court
Rules of Procedure in Traffic Cases, the following procedure is hereby adopted
to ensure efficient disposition and enforcement of laws, ordinances and
regulations governing the parking of vehicles within the city.
In lieu of citing a violator of vehicle parking regulations in District Court,
any Lewis County sheriff or his deputies may issue a citation in the form
hereinafter provided.
Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking a vehicle
in a designated area or restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there
parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal
parking by paying to the city a bond in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) within
five (5) days of the time such citation was issued. Any Lewis county sheriff or
his deputies is hereby authorized to refrain from instituting prosecution for
the alleged offense involved so long as compliance is had with the procedures
herein.
The citation used for parking violations shall consist of at least two parts,
assembled so the entries on the citation shall reproduce on the other part of
the parts by carbon paper or other means. Each of the parts shall contain, as a
minimum, space to write the date, time and location of violation, the violation
by a brief description, the ordinance or statute number, the vehicle
description, the registration, plate number and state, the Lewis County Sheriff
or his deputies' signature and the last permissible day for posting bond. In
addition, the citation shall be serially numbered and shall contain a
certification that the Lewis County Sheriff or his deputy has reasonable
grounds to believe the offense was committed and contain a notice to the
violator that a complaint can be filed in the District Court in the event of
noncompliance.
This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the
entrance or exit of any place where police or fire apparatus or other emergency
equipment is kept or housed. Nor shall this section apply to any person charged
with parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-
way traffic only; nor to any person whose parking creates an immediate
hazardous traffic situation, nor to any person who refuses to move an illegally
parked vehicle at the request of any Lewis County Sheriff or his deputies.
In all cases where a citation has been issued pursuant to this section, the
issuing Sheriff or deputy shall cause a formal complaint to be filed in the
District Court pursuant to state law and court rules when:
   A.   The violator has failed to post bond, or
   B.   The violator makes a request of Lewis County Sheriff or his deputies
that the matter be so handled, which request must be made within five (5)
working days of the violation and before bond has been posted.
All moneys paid by a violator pursuant to the section shall be paid to the
District Court.
5-3-4: SNOWMOBILES:
The term "snowmobile" shall mean every self-propelled devise upon a combination
of skis, skids, tracks or endless belts, in and upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon snow- or snow-covered surface
areas, expressly includes devises knows as "snowmobiles" or "ski mobiles".
It shall be lawful to operate a snowmobile upon all the public roadways of the
City of Winchester upon the condition and subject to the restrictions
hereinafter set forth in this section.
No person under the age of fourteen (14) years shall drive or operate a
snowmobile in the City.
It shall be unlawful to for any person to knowingly permit, allow or encourage
the operation or driving of a snowmobile by a person under the age of fourteen
(14) years.
No snowmobile shall be operated in the city, unless it is equipped with the
following:
   A.   At least one and not more than two (2) head lamps sufficient to render
clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of two hundred fifty
(250') feet ahead.
   B.   Tail lamps, which when lighted shall emit a red light plainly visible
at a distance of two hundred fifty feet (250') to the rear.
   C.   At least one brake which may be operated by hand or foot.
   D.   A muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; and no person shall us a muffler
cut out, by-pass or similar device.
   E.   All snowmobiles operated in the City shall be equipped with a mast or
antenna displaying area or red-orange, fluorescent flag or pennant a minimum of
five feet (5') above the ground; such flag or pennant shall be either
rectangular or triangular in shape with the leading edge being a minimum 0f six
inches (6') and the length a minimum of twelve inches (12").
Regulations for Operation of Snowmobiles:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to drive, operate or park a snowmobile on any
sidewalk in the City.
   B.   No snowmobile shall be operated at a speed in excess of fifteen (15)
miles per hour in the City.
   C.   No snowmobile shall carry passengers or weights in excess of the
capacity recommended by the manufacture thereof.
   D.   No sled, toboggan, trailer or any other device shall be towed by a
snowmobile except by means of a rigid tow bar connecting the same to such
device.
   E.   No person on skis shall be towed behind a snowmobile.
   F.   It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a snowmobile while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor.
   G.   All snowmobiles shall come to a full stop at all street intersections.
   H.   All snowmobiles shall be operated only in the single file on the
extreme right-hand side of the street.
   I.   Operation of snowmobiles on the streets of the City shall be limited to
ingress and egress to and from the City; that City streets are not to be used
as a place of recreation for snowmobiles.
   J.   No snowmobiles shall be operated within the City limits after ten
o’clock (10:00) P.M. except for the purpose of going directly to or from the
place of residence of the operator of such snowmobile or to its place of
storage.
   K.   No person shall operate a snowmobile carelessly and heedlessly, or
without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
If any provision, section, part of section, sentence or clause of this section
shall be held unconstitutional or invalid, all other parts or provisions not
expressly held to be so void or unconstitutional shall continue in full force
and effect.
Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment in the County
jail not more than thirty (30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
5-3-5: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited; No Signs required: No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of a Lewis County
Sheriff or his deputies or traffic-control device, in any of the following
places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
      5.   On a cross walk.
      6.   Within twenty (20) feet of a cross walk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach of any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control device located at the side of the roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and adjacent curb or within thirty (30) feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the Traffic Division has indicated a different length by signs or markings;
      9.   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station and on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy-five (75) feet of said entrance when properly sign-posted;
      10.   Alongside or opposite any street obstruction or excavation when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      11.   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      12.   Within a highway tunnel; and
      13.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is lawful.
   C.   Parking Not to Obstruct Traffic: No person shall park any vehicle upon
a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   D.   Parking in Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10)
feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic,
and no person shall stop, stand or park within an alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   E.   Parking for Certain Purposed Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle
upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such a vehicle for sale.
      2.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   F.   Parking Adjacent to Schools:
      1.   The traffic division is hereby authorized to erect signs including
no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation.
      2.   When official signs are erected indicated no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   G.   Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets:
      1.   The traffic division is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty
(20) feet, or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the
width of the roadway does not exceed thirty (30) feet.
      2.   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
street in violation of any such sign.
   H.   No Stopping, Standing or Parking Near Hazardous or Congested Places:
      1.   The Traffic Division is hereby authorized to determine and designate
by proper signs places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition
or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
      2.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designation place.
5-3-6: STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY:
   A.   Mayor and City Council to designate Curb Loading Zones: The Mayor and
City Council is hereby authorized to determine the location of passenger and
freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs
indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
section are applicable.
   B.   Standing in Freight Curb Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick-up and loading of materials in any place marked
as freight curb loading zone hours when the provisions applicable to such zones
are in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed thirty (30) minutes.
   C.   Mayor and City Council to Designate Public Carrier Stop and Stands: The
Mayor and City Council is hereby authorized and required to establish bus
stops, and bus stands, and stand for other passenger common-carrier motor
vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such number it shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and
every such bus stop, bus stand, or other stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
   D.   Stopping, Standing and Parking of Buses and Regulations:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated,
except in case of emergency.
      3.   The operator of a buss shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when
stopped to load or unload passenger or baggage shall be in a position with the
right front wheel of such vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and
the bus approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicle traffic.
   E.   Restricted Use of Bus Stands: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, except that the driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
5-3-7: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS:
   A.   Application of Section: The provisions of this section prohibiting the
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified or as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   B.   Regulations Not Exclusive: The provisions of tis section imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the city to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   C.   Parking Signs Required: Whenever by this Chapter any parking time limit
is imposed, it shall be the duty of the Traffic Division to erect appropriate
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be effective unless
said signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
5-3-8: WHEN LEWIS COUNTY SHERIFF OR DEPUTIES REMOVE PARKED CARS: COSTS:
If at any time a vehicle is parked in a prohibited place or at a time when
parking is prohibited where parked, for a period of ten minutes or more and
such vehicle is obstructing the free movement of traffic or is causing a
traffic hazard, or is directly interfering with the maintenance or care, or
emergency use of the streets, and the person in charge cannot be immediately
located, of if located, fails, neglects or refuses to move said vehicle at
once, the Lewis County Sheriff's Department may in its discretion in addition
to the penalty provided therefore remove or cause to be removed, said vehicle
keeping it in its custody or until the owner or his authorized agent applies
for same and has paid a reasonable cost for removing and storing said vehicle
which costs shall be assessed and collected by the Lewis County Sheriff's Dept.
and said costs and expenses shall be a lien in favor of the Lewis County
Sheriff's Department on said care, provided that when any such motor vehicle is
interfering with the maintenance or emergency use of the streets, but not
otherwise violating this Chapter then the Lewis County Sheriff's Department
may, in its own discretion remove said motor vehicle or other vehicle and care
for the same, and may in its own discretion deliver the same to the owner
without any cost or charge for such removal or storage.
5-3-9: REMOVAL OF UNIDENTIFIED, STOLEN, WRECKED OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES AND
CHARGES THEREFOR:
The Lewis County Sheriff's Department is hereby authorized in its discretion,
in addition to any penalty that may be provided therefore, to remove an
unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle or other personal
property, as herein defined, found upon any public street or property and shall
keep the same in its custody and control at such place as may be designated by
said Lewis County sheriff Department until redeemed by the owner thereof, as
herein provided; and as such unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor
vehicles or other personal property which now is in its possession shall be
subject to the actual cost of removal or tow-in from the public place, and a
storage charge of fifty cents ($0.50) per day as long as the same in is
possession and custody of said department.
 
                                        An automobile or personal property
                                        which remains upon the streets or other
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER        public property for a period longer
PERSONAL PROPERTY:                      than forty-eight (48) hours, the owner
                                        of which cannot be located, or the
                                        owner refused to remove the same.
STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL  That property which the Lewis County
PROPERTY:                               Sheriff's Department has reasonable
                                        grounds to believe to be stolen.
UNIDENTIFIED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER     Such motor vehicle or other personal
PERSONAL PROPERTY:                      property where ownership thereof cannot
                                        be ascertained.
WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL One damaged by accident or any cause
PROPERTY:                               and left upon the streets or public
                                        place unattended.
 
It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a motor vehicle
or other personal property, to leave or abandon the same upon the streets or
public places as in this Chapter provided.
5-3-10: ENFORCEMENT OF COUNTY'S LIEN ON PROPERTIES IMPOUNDED BY LEWIS COUNTY
SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT:
All motor vehicles and other personal property impounded or heretofore
impounded by the Lewis County Sheriff's Department and un-redeemed by the owner
t hereof for a period of forty-five (45) days shall thereafter be subject to
sale to the highest bidder for cash as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds
of said sale shall be deposited with the Treasurer and the balance of said sum,
if any, shall be deposited with the Treasurer and shall be kept in a separate
fund for a period of one year from the date of receipt, and if at the end of
said year the former owner of said property has not made satisfactory proof of
claim as hereinafter provided, then the balance of said proceeds of sale shall
be credited to the General Fund.
5-3-11: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP; APPEAL; REDEMPTION AFTER SALE:
Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property as in this
Chapter provided, shall make written application therefor to the Lewis County
Sheriff Department and shall furnish to said Department such additional proof
as may be required to establish said ownership. If he shall present to said
Department said proof of his ownership of said impounded property prior to the
date of actual sale thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, then
the property itself delivered to said owner under the conditions herein
provided; but if said property has been sold, then said department shall
endorse its findings of ownership with a copy of the written application
addressed to the Clerk, and said owner may present said application and
findings to said Clerk, and if presented within one year after said sale, then
such balance of the proceeds of sale, after deductions as in this Chapter
provided, shall be paid to said owner.
Any appeal from the removal, storage and publications costs, if any, assessed
by the Lewis County Sheriff's Department as provided in this chapter shall be
in the same manner as provided by law.
5-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be liable to a fine of not more than three hundred dollars
($300) for any one offense, or six (6) months in jail or both, and all such
fines shall be recoverable by said City with cost.
CHAPTER 4
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE GUIDELINES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Application And Permits
5-4-4: Requirement For Recreational Vehicle Parks
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
The City Council of the City of Winchester hereby finds and declares that the
indiscriminate placement and use of recreational vehicles (RVs) on individual
lots within the City threatens the health and safety of citizens, and damages
property values. In order to protect property values, to preserve the intent of
the City's comprehensive plan, and to promote the general safety and welfare of
the citizens of the City, recreational vehicles shall be located only within
approved recreation vehicle parks, or as otherwise allowed in this ordinance
(see Section 4-512). (Ord. 210, 3-6-1995)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                      A wheeled vehicle less than ten (10) feet in width at its
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: widest point, self-propelled or unpowered and/or
                      qualifying for a State of Idaho recreation vehicle
                      permit.
RV PARK:              A tract of land with one or more spaces rented for the
                      parking of recreational vehicles. (Ord. 210, 3-6-1995)
 
5-4-3: APPLICATION AND PERMITS:
   A.   A permit is required to operate or maintain any recreational vehicle
park. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Planning and Zoning
Commission through the City Clerk. The Commission shall then enact upon the
application after such notice and hearing as required by law, and make its
recommendations to the City Council, who shall then either grant or deny said
application.
   B.   No recreational vehicle park permit shall be transferrable. Every
person holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to the City within
five (5) days after having sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of any
interest in, or control of an RV facility, unless a new permit has been granted
to subsequent owners or if any application for a new permit is pending.
   Applications for permits by prospective new owners may be made in advance of
any sale or transfer, and shall be approved if the terms of the applicable
ordinances are met.
   C.   A recreational vehicle park permit holder shall maintain a current plot
plan of each recreational vehicle park and ensure that such current plot plan
is in file with the City Clerk.
   D.   The City Council is hereby authorized to revoke or suspend any
recreational vehicle park permit issued hereunder if, after due investigation,
it determines that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of
this chapter or that any recreational vehicle park is being maintained or
operated in an unsanitary or unsafe manner, or, because of the manner of
operation constitutes a public nuisance. (Ord. 210, 3-6-1995)
5-4-4: REQUIREMENT FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Alteration or enlargement. Recreational vehicle parks in use as of the
effective date of this ordinance shall be permitted to continue as an
established land use, but shall not be altered, in either construction or
operation, so as to cause any deviation from the minimum standards of this
Chapter, insofar as the pre-existing use complies with this chapter on the
effective date hereof. If a non-conforming recreational vehicle park is
enlarged in either area or in usage (e.g. number of spaces available for rental
or an increase in seasonal availability of rental spaces), the entire park
shall be subject to the provisions hereof, specifically including, but not
limited to, the standards herein and the requirements of a permit.
   B.   Records required. Every recreational vehicle park shall at all items
keep a register of all guests or tenants which shall be open to inspection by
State, Federal and City officials. Said register shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Names and addresses of each guest tenant.
      2.   Dates of entrance and departure.
      3.   Vehicle registration numbers and state of issue of each recreational
vehicle and tow vehicle.
   C.   Maintenance. Each recreational vehicle park shall be kept in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition at all times.
   D.   Fire protection. Each recreational vehicle park shall be subject to
inspection by the City Fire Chief and shall and maintain fire protection
equipment such as fire extinguishers, fire hydrants and other equipment in such
quantities and locations as specified by said Fire Chief, and as may be
necessary to meet all applicable building and life safety codes. Open fires
shall not be allowed in a recreational vehicle park except in locations and in
facilities approved by the Fire Chief.
   E.   Interior park drives: All spaces within the recreational vehicle park
shall have direct access to an interior roadway not less than twenty-five feet
(25') in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or
highway. Dead-end roadways shall provide adequate vehicle turning space, or a
cul-de-sac with not less than a fifty-two foot (52') diameter exclusive of
parking.
   F.   Landscaping and screening. The recreational vehicle park boundaries
shall be reasonably screened from outside view, whether by barriers of
ornamental fences, walls, trees or shrubs to assure reasonable integration with
adjoining land usages and to assure the health, safety and quiet enjoyment of
the area.
   G.   Occupant improvement. Recreational vehicle parks space occupants shall
be not permitted to erect or install any structures.
   H.   Utilities. All recreational vehicle park spaces will be serviced by
water, sewer and electrical hookups. Generators on individual recreational
vehicles will not be allowed to operate between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m.
   I.   Storage of hazardous material. Storage of hazardous or potentially
hazardous materials shall not be allowed beneath recreational vehicles.
Hazardous or potentially hazardous materials include, but are not limited to,
flammable liquids, combustible liquids, compressed gas, combustible waste
matter, fireworks, firearms, or ammunition. (Ord. 210, 3-6-1995)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY SERVICES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Utility Service Billing
6-1-3: Payment Of Charges; Delinquencies; Water Shutoff
6-1-4: Conditions For Discontinuance Of Refuse Service
6-1-5: Penalty
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
UTILITY CHARGE: The fee, rental, rate, charge, service charge or assessment
provided for in this Code as reimbursement to the City for rendering to the
utility user of the services of that particular utility for which the charge is
made.
UTILITY SERVICE: The Municipal water service, and the Municipal refuse service,
and the Municipal sewer service are each defined as utility services of the
City of Winchester.
UTILITY SERVICE BILL: The statement containing the combined total amounts of
all utility charges due and payable to the City for utility services furnished
and delinquency charges assessed.
UTILITY USER: The owner of the property, or a renter, tenant or other nonowner
occupant of the property, to which one, or all the utility services of the
City, is supplied.
(1990 Code §8-201; amd. 2018 Code)
6-1-2: UTILITY SERVICE BILLING:
   A.   Billing To Property Owners: Unless otherwise provided herein, all
utility services of the City shall be billed to the owner of the property to
which the utility services of the City are supplied. (1990 Code §8-202)
   B.   Billing To Tenants:
      1.   If any utility user as defined in section 6-1-1 of this chapter
desires the utility services to be billed to a renter, tenant or other nonowner
occupant of the property, the property owner may enter into a contractual
guarantee agreement with the City, whereupon the City may bill directly to the
tenant until further notice so long as the payments are current. Any such
practice shall be as a convenience to the property owner only and shall not
relieve the owner of responsibility for payment heretofore imposed.
      2.   The authority to enter into such agreements on behalf of the City is
hereby delegated to the City Council, to be on a standard form of agreement
approved by the City Council and filed thereafter with the City Clerk-
Treasurer. (1990 Code §8-207)
   C.   Monthly Billing:
      1.   Utility service billings shall be made monthly on an itemized
statement which shall contain the following information: period covered by
billings; water meter reading date; present water meter reading at billing
date; water meter reading at last billing; and a statement as to the amount of
water used or the estimated amount of water used.
      2.   In addition, the utility statement shall contain information in a
monetary amount as to the water rental due, or estimated due; water rental past
due; refuse services due, refuse services past due; sewer rental due; sewer
rental past due; and delinquency or service charge, if any.
      3.   The utility service bill shall then contain a total of all utility
charges due and payable to the City. (1990 Code §8-202)
   D.   Charges Not Prorated: If any utility service is supplied to a premises
for any portion of a calendar month, such utility service shall be billed to
the utility user for the entire month. No utility charge shall be prorated for
a portion of any month. (1990 Code §8-205)
6-1-3: PAYMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCIES; WATER SHUTOFF:
   A.   Delinquency; Additional Monthly Charge; Lien:
      1.   All utility service bills are due and payable monthly on the first
day of the month following the month in which such services are used and shall
be delinquent if unpaid at the next billing date. If not paid before
delinquent, a charge of five dollars ($5.00) per month shall be added to the
amount previously due.
      2.   All utility charges and utility service charges provided for in this
Code, and the delinquency charges thereon, shall be a lien upon the property to
which utility services are rendered, superior to all other liens and
encumbrances whatsoever except for general taxes and local special assessments.
The City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed, prior to the
expiration of six (6) months from the first day of the first month for which
such charges are unpaid, to certify to the Auditor of Lewis County, all such
utility charges as a lien upon such property.
   B.   Water Shutoff For Nonpayment; Return To Service Fee: As an additional
and concurrent method of enforcing the lien of the City for said utility
charges when the same shall become delinquent and remain so for a period of
thirty (30) days, the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cut off
the Municipal water service from the premises to which utility services were
furnished, and said service shall remain cut off until all of the utility
service bill, utility service charges, delinquency charges and a return to
service fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) have been paid in full. (Ord. 444, 6-13-
2005)
   C.   Shutoff Notice: Municipal water service shall be turned off at any such
premises for the nonpayment of any or all of the utility service on such date
as indicated on the utility bill. (Ord. 444, 6-13-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
6-1-4: CONDITIONS FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF REFUSE SERVICE:
   A.   Procedure For Discontinuance:
      1.   Whenever any utility user desires to discontinue the Municipal
refuse service because the property to which such service is supplied has been
vacated or is uninhabited, or will be unused for a period of time, he shall
notify the City Clerk that he wishes such refuse service to be discontinued.
The utility user shall exhibit to the City Clerk his most recent utility
service bill showing that the utility services, as well as all service charges
have been paid to date. If all utility services and service charges have been
paid in full to date, the City Clerk shall notify all the appropriate City
departments that all the Municipal refuse service is to be discontinued, as
well as the date of its discontinuance.
      2.   Whenever a utility user desires to recommence the refuse service
discontinued as provided herein, the City Clerk shall notify all the
appropriate City departments that the Municipal refuse service is to be
reinstated to the utility user's premises and the date at which the refuse
service is to commence. (1990 Code §8-204; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   No fee or service charge shall be assessed for any of the above
services. (1990 Code §8-204)
   B.   Billing Abated: All billings for refuse service upon the utility
service bill shall be abated and discontinued, and all refuse service shall be
discontinued until the utility user notifies the City Clerk that refuse service
should be reinstated. (1990 Code §8-204; amd. 2018 Code)
6-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section 1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §8-206)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Water Division Established; Supervision; Account Collection
6-2-3: Application For Water Connection; Fee
6-2-4: Water Meters
6-2-5: Service Connections And Service Pipes
6-2-6: Meters And Materials Property Of City
6-2-7: Water Service Rates And Charges
6-2-8: Turn Off Of Water; Turn On Charge
6-2-9: Newly Installed Services
6-2-10: Supplying Water To Others; Permit
6-2-11: Emergency Shutoff
6-2-12: Refusing Access To Premises
6-2-13: Irrigation Water Regulated
6-2-14: Water Use Restrictions
6-2-15: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
DIRECTOR: The Public Works Director of the City of Winchester, his agent or
representative.
PERSON OR CONSUMER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group.
PREMISES OR PROPERTY: The real property or buildings served or proposed to be
served by the City water system.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
WATER MAIN: A pipe or conduit for carrying domestic water.
WATER SYSTEM: All facilities for storing, pumping, treating and distributing of
water. (1990 Code §3-338)
6-2-2: WATER DIVISION ESTABLISHED; SUPERVISION; ACCOUNT COLLECTION:
   A.   Division Established: The Water Division of the Department of Public
Utilities of the City is hereby established. (1990 Code §3-301)
   B.   Supervision: The Public Works Director shall have full supervision,
charge and control of the Water Division. He shall make and enforce such rules
as he may deem necessary for the efficient administration and regulation of the
division. (1990 Code §3-302; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-3: APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION; FEE:
   A.   Use Of Form: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to have property
connected with the water supply system of the City shall make an application
therefor to the Public Works Director on a printed form to be furnished to the
Water Division. (1990 Code §3-303; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Information; Agreement:
      1.   The application shall be made and signed by the owner or lessee of
the property, or the authorized agent of such owner or lessee, and shall fully
state:
         a.   All the purposes for which the water shall be used.
         b.   The number of service pipes desired.
         c.   Whether there shall be more than one building on more than one
separate property supplied by the one service connection with the City main.
         d.   The number, kind of buildings and properties so supplied.
         e.   Probable consumption.
         f.   The size of service pipe or connection believed to be necessary
therefor.
         g.   The name of the applicant, and whether the owner, authorized
agent or renter.
      2.   Such application shall contain an agreement that the applicant will
at all times conform to and be governed by the rules and regulations of the
Water Division and provisions of this chapter, and that he will pay for all
water used on the premises, at the rate supplied in said rules. (1990 Code §3-
304)
   C.   Minimum City Water Connection Fee: The minimum fee to be charged by the
City for the connection of City water to any privately owned property within
the corporate City limits shall be two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). (Ord., 10-
7-1996)
6-2-4: WATER METERS:
   A.   Installation In New Services: Whenever any new service shall be
installed connecting any property with the water supply system of the City, a
meter shall be installed with the service and water will be supplied to the
property through such meter only. (1990 Code §3-306)
   B.   Installation On Any Premises: Meters shall be installed on any premises
whatsoever, when, in the opinion of the Water Division, the installation of a
meter may for any just reason be deemed necessary. (1990 Code §3-307)
   C.   Meters Supplied By City: Meters shall be supplied by the City. (1990
Code §3-308)
   D.   Installation By Water Division: The actual installation of all meters
shall be done by the Water Division. (1990 Code §3-309)
   E.   Size And Design: All meters shall be of a standard size and design
approved by the Public Works Director and each meter shall, before it is
installed, be separately examined, tested and approved by him. (1990 Code §3-
310)
   F.   Testing Accuracy; Filing Of Request; Fee:
      1.   When the accuracy of the record of a water meter is questioned by
the consumer, the meter shall be removed at his request and shall be tested by
the Director in the presence of the consumer and a record kept thereof. Both
parties shall accept the findings so made. Before making such tests, the
consumer, at the time of filing his request, shall deposit with the Director
the sum of ten dollars ($10.00). If a test so made discloses an error against
the consumer of more than three percent (3%) in the meter register, the excess
of such reading as applied to the three (3) readings next preceding the test
shall be calculated and the amount of money due the consumer thereon credited
to his meter account. The Water Division shall bear the entire expense of the
test and the deposit of the consumer shall be returned to him. If no error in
excess of three percent (3%) against the consumer is found, the consumer shall
pay the cost of the test out of his deposit. No meter shall be removed or in
any way disturbed nor the seal broken except in the presence, and under the
supervision of the Director. (1990 Code §3-311)
      2.   In the event of a water meter getting out of order or failing to
register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made from the
most reliable date in the possession of the Water Division. (1990 Code §3-315)
   G.   Inspection Of Premises: The Water Division reserves the right to enter
at any reasonable time any premises where City water is used, for the purpose
of making an examination of the premises, or a test of the meter, and it also
reserves the right to remove the meter from the premises for examination and
test when necessary. (1990 Code §3-312)
   H.   Meters Property Of City; Location:
      1.   All meters shall be and remain the property of the City, and shall
not be removed from the service except for test or repair and replacement or on
abandonment or discontinuance of the service.
      2.   All meters shall be so located and maintained as to be readily
accessible at all reasonable hours for reading, inspection and repairs. (1990
Code §3-313)
   I.   Lost, Damaged Or Broken Meters; Cost Of Repair Or Replacement:
      1.   In cases where a meter has been lost, damaged or broken, by or
through the carelessness or negligence of the owner or the occupant of the
premises serviced, such meter shall be properly repaired and restored under the
direction of the Director and the cost thereof shall be charged against the
owner or occupant of the premises.
      2.   In cases of nonpayment of such charges, the water shall be turned
off and not again turned on until the cost of repairs and the penalty for
shutting off and turning on the water has been paid. (1990 Code §3-314)
6-2-5: SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Separate Connections Required: Every separate building supplied with
City water must have its own separate connection with the City mains, except
that two (2) or more buildings located on the same lot, or on contiguous lots
under a single ownership, may be, upon written permission granted by the
Director, supplied through the same connection with the City main in cases
where a water meter is installed in the service, as long as said single
ownership continues. Upon change from such single ownership, a new and separate
connection shall be immediately made for the building or premises theretofore
having the indirect connection. (1990 Code §3-316)
   B.   Location And Maintenance: All service pipes from the City mains or from
other City service pipes to the water meter and all water meters and
appurtenant structures shall be installed in accordance with the written
specifications to be established by the Public Works Director. These
specifications shall include material, depth, location, accessibility and
required and permitted fixtures. Such specifications shall be reduced to
writing and copies of the same shall be available for inspection or copying by
interested persons at the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such
specifications may be revised or amended from time to time by said Director as
changes of conditions or technology may warrant or as may be in the interests
of efficient operation of the water system. The owner of the property served
shall be responsible for the installation and maintenance of all service lines
and other plumbing downstream from the City meter, or if no meter, from the
property line. (Ord., 5-6-1991)
   C.   Unlawful Connections: It shall be unlawful for any person, except a
competent person authorized by the Director, to make any connection with a City
service pipe or with any part of the City water system. (1990 Code §3-318)
   D.   Unlawful Tampering With City Service Pipes: No person, other than the
Director or his authorized agent, shall use any street key or other device for
the purpose of shutting off water or turning on same outside of his property
line; nor shall any person uncover or attempt to uncover, or tamper with any
pipe, valve, meter, meter box, curb stop, or curb stop box of a City service
connection without the authority from the Director. (1990 Code §3-319)
   E.   Services Outside City Limits: No water mains shall be constructed or
laid by the City outside the City limits to any premises; provided, however,
mains may be laid to property belonging to the City. All proposed consumers who
have property outside the City limits and who desire to obtain City water shall
construct their own mains from the City limits to their own property at their
own expense. All City meters in such cases shall be placed as near as
practicable to the City limits. (1990 Code §3-337)
6-2-6: METERS AND MATERIALS PROPERTY OF CITY:
All meters furnished and all materials supplied by the Water Department in the
installation or repair of any meter or meters, and all materials supplied in
the installation of any service connection with the City mains, or in tapping
any City main, shall remain the property of the City and may be removed by the
Water Department at any time for nonpayment of any charges or installment due.
(1990 Code §3-332)
6-2-7: WATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Monthly Service Charges: The rates and charges for water supplied by
the City water system shall be a monthly minimum charge of forty eight dollars
twenty six cents ($48.26) for the first three thousand (3,000) gallons or less.
(1990 Code §3-333; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Credit Allowed Fire Department Premises: All active members in good
standing of the Winchester Volunteer Fire Department shall be allowed a maximum
credit of forty eight dollars twenty six cents ($48.26) per month against their
water accounts. This credit shall not be accumulative, but shall be used in
full each month, nor shall this credit be in any way applied against the sewer
accounts. This sum is granted to them as partial consideration for their
services. The Fire Chief shall quarterly submit to the Director or the City
Clerk-Treasurer a list of all active members of the Volunteer Fire Department.
(1990 Code §§3-335, 3-342; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Nonresidents:
      1.   Surcharge On Nonresident Consumption: All water used by consumers on
premises located outside the City limits shall pay, in addition to the regular
rate charges set forth in subsection A of this section, a surcharge of twenty
five percent (25%) on all water furnished. This charge is made to partially
compensate the City for not obtaining tax money from the premises served, for
use on the water system. (1990 Code §3-334)
      2.   Contracts For Nonresident Consumption: All persons desiring water
service from the City to property located outside the corporate limits of the
City shall, as a condition of receiving such initial and/or continuing service,
enter into a contract with the City in a standard form to be approved by the
Mayor and Public Works Director to the effect that they shall be bound by all
City ordinances dealing with water service to the same extent as are residents
of the City, insofar as can be applied by law and where not inconsistent by the
terms of the individual ordinance. Provided, however, that neither this
subsection, nor subsection C1 of this section, shall constitute an enforceable
commitment by the City to furnish or an enforceable right on the part of
property owners to receive City water service outside the City, it being
understood that such service will only be provided and/or continued to the
extent that the system has water capacity available in excess of the needs of
the users inside the corporate limits, including fire protection, other public
uses and outside water contracts with priority. (Ord., 5-6-1991)
6-2-8: TURN OFF OF WATER; TURN ON CHARGE:
   A.   Unlawful Turning On Of Water: When water has been shut off from any
premises, either upon the application of the owner or occupant thereof, or for
nonpayment of water charges, or for any other cause, it shall be a misdemeanor
for any person to again connect such premises with the City water supply system
except when specifically authorized so to do by the Director; and the Director
may cause the water to be shut off at the main, or may remove a portion of the
service connection in the street. In addition to the penalty in this chapter
provided for violation of its provisions, the Water Department may also charge
to and collect from the owner or occupant of the premises so illegally
connected, the whole cost of the disconnection and reconnection, and the
penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) for shutting off the water and for turning on
the water, the whole of such penalties and charges to be paid before the water
is again turned on. (1990 Code §3-320; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Service Charge For Turning On: Whenever water is turned off, except
upon the request of the owner or occupant of the premises, it shall not be
turned on until after the payment of a charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
said service, as provided in subsection A of this section. (1990 Code §3-321;
amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-9: NEWLY INSTALLED SERVICES:
In all cases where a water service has been newly installed connecting any
premises or building with the City mains, and in all cases of reconstruction,
alteration or repair of any building where new or additional water services or
fixtures have been installed, City water shall not be turned on to such service
until all charges for water used on the premises for any purpose shall have
been paid. (1990 Code §3-322)
6-2-10: SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS; PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   No owner or lessee of property supplied with water from the City
mains shall furnish water to any other person or property without first
obtaining a written permit to do so from the Public Works Director. No permit
will be issued until the person desiring to use the water has obtained and
filed with the Director a written consent of the owner or lessee of the
property from which the water is to be taken, stating the location of such
property by street and number, and the location by street and number of the
property to be supplied with water, and stating the purpose for which the water
is to be used.
      2.   Upon receipt of a proper permit as herein provided, from the owner
or lessee of the property from which the water is to be taken, and, where water
is taken from premises paying a flat rate, upon payment in advance for the
water for the whole term for which the permit is issued, the Director may issue
a temporary permit allowing water to be supplied to other persons or property
for domestic and other purposes, but no permit shall be issued for a longer
time than three (3) months.
   B.   Violation: Any person allowing water to be taken from the premises
owned or occupied by him by any person without such person having a permit from
the Director shall be in violation of this chapter. (1990 Code §3-323)
6-2-11: EMERGENCY SHUTOFF:
The Public Works Director may, in an emergency, order the water cut off from
any premises connected with the City mains, without notice, for repairs or
other necessary purposes. The City will not be liable for any damage that may
occur on account of the water being cut off for any of the above purposes, or
on account of the breaking of any pipe or fixture by pressure of the water from
the City mains. (1990 Code §3-324)
6-2-12: REFUSING ACCESS TO PREMISES:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, neglect or
fail to afford any duly authorized representative of the Water Department free
access at all reasonable hours to any and all parts of buildings or premises
supplied with water from the City water supply system, for the purpose of
making records, readings and inspections of the location, condition and
sufficiently of pipes, fittings, valves, cocks, fixtures and appliances, and
noting the amount of water used and the manner in which it is used.
   B.   Violation: Violation of this provision, or the abuse, threatening or
attempted intimidation of any officer of the Water Department, may result in
the shutting off of the water and the imposition of the usual penalties in
addition to punishment for violation of this chapter as elsewhere herein
provided. (1990 Code §3-325)
6-2-13: IRRIGATION WATER REGULATED:
   A.   City Authority:
      1.   To assure adequate supplies of water for purposes of domestic use
and firefighting, the City Council shall have the authority to promulgate and
declare reasonable restrictions upon the use of City water for the purposes of
irrigation of crops, lawns and all other outdoor horticultural uses. These
restrictions may include, but are not limited to, the prohibition of any
irrigation in the City for the time periods stated in the order, allowing
irrigation only during certain specified hours, allowing irrigation only on
specified days, allowing irrigation only for specified purposes of allowing
only the use of a specified maximum quantity of water for irrigation.
      2.   Any such restrictive orders issued by said City Council shall be
promulgated after a reasonable investigation and forecast of the quantity of
water available, the minimum needs and reserve required of water available, the
minimum needs and reserve required for other water usage, and the estimated
water usage to be avoided by the proposed order.
      3.   All such orders curtailing the unlimited use of water for irrigation
shall be limited in time, and shall not, unless expiring sooner by its own
terms, be effective for more than thirty (30) days after its issuance, unless
extended by City Council for good cause. (1990 Code §3-302A; amd. 2018 Code)
      4.   All such orders shall be posted at the City Hall and such other
places as are reasonably calculated to give notice to the public.
      5.   Any person knowingly violating the terms of an order promulgated
under this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
accordingly. In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution, any person
knowingly violating such an order shall be liable for a civil penalty not
exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00), which penalty shall be
assessed in the first instance by the City Council, and may be enforced in any
court of competent jurisdiction. Provided, however, that no person shall be
punished, criminally or civilly, unless it be demonstrated that such person
first had actual knowledge of the existence of the order and refused or
neglected to obey the same after a reasonable opportunity to comply. (1990 Code
§3-302A)
   B.   Irrigation Regulations:
      1.   Irrigation With Unmetered Services: On unmetered service, a moderate
amount of water for irrigation may be used, which privilege may be canceled by
the Director if water is used beyond a reasonable amount. (1990 Code §3-326)
      2.   Sprinkling Devices And Hoses: No water shall be used for irrigation
except through a nozzle, spray nozzle or other sprinkling device; and no hose
or sprinkling device shall be left running unattended. (1990 Code §3-327)
      3.   Prohibiting Irrigation: In case of shortage of water, the use of
water for irrigation may be prohibited by the Director. (1990 Code §3-328)
6-2-14: WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Shortages And Emergencies: If any person refuses to comply with the
request of any employee of the Water Department to conserve water during a
shortage or emergency, water services may be discontinued. (1990 Code §3-330)
   B.   Use During Fires: It shall be unlawful for any person to use water for
irrigation or sprinkling during the progress of any fire in the City, except
for protection from fire, and all such irrigation and sprinkling shall be
immediately stopped when the fire alarm is sounded and not resumed until the
fire is out. (1990 Code §3-331)
6-2-15: PENALTY:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. Any
offender who shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, not
permanently cease such violation shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §3-339)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Sewer Connection Fee And Service Charges
6-3-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required; Restrictions
6-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
6-3-5: Prohibited Discharges
6-3-6: Protection From Damage
6-3-7: Right Of Entry For Inspection
6-3-8: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning six
feet (6') outside the inner face of the building wall.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
DIRECTOR: The Public Works Director of the City of Winchester, or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-fourth inch (1/4") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries stormwater and surface water
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1990 Code §3-401)
6-3-2: SEWER CONNECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Fee: A connection charge of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
is hereby established and assessed against each premises connecting onto the
City sewer system. (Ord., 10-7-1996)
   B.   Rates For Sewer Service: The following minimum rates and charges are
hereby fixed for sewage service furnished by the City, and shall be paid
therefor as follows:
 
Residential      $44.05 per EDU
Commercial       44.05 per EDU
Multi-commercial 44.05 per EDU
RV dump station  44.05 per EDU
 
(1990 Code §3-410; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Connection Required: The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated
within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the City, is hereby required at his expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect all building drains directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within thirty (30) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that
said public sewer is within two hundred feet (200') of the property line.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to
be deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provision of this chapter.
      3.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (1990 Code §3-402)
6-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Classifications:
      1.   No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb and public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Director.
      2.   There shall be the following classes of building sewer permits: a)
for residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the City. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director.
   B.   Costs Borne By Owner: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   C.   Separate Sewer For Each Building; Exception: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   D.   Old Building Sewers Used With New Buildings: Old building sewers may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination
and tested by the Director, to meet all requirements of this chapter. (1990
Code §3-404)
   E.   Construction And Excavation Requirements:
      1.   The building sewer shall be a four inch (4") ABS (plastic) pipe
schedule 40, no smaller, or other suitable material approved by the Director.
Joints shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is
located within ten feet (10') of a water service pipe shall be constructed of
nonmetallic material if laid on a suitable bed or cradle as approved by the
Director.
      2.   The building drain shall extend six feet (6') outside the inner face
of the building wall at which point it shall connect the building sewer. The
minimum size of any building drain shall be determined on the basis of the
total number of fixture units drained, but in no case shall the building sewer
be less than four inches (4"). The slope of such four inch (4") pipe shall be
not less than one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot. (1990 Code §3-404; amd. 2018
Code)
      3.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall, which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
      4.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
Drainage piping serving fixtures within a building location below the crown
level of the main sewer shall discharge into an approved watertight sump or
receiving tank, so located as to receive the sewage or wastes by gravity. From
such sump or receiving tank the sewage or other liquid wastes shall be lifted
and discharged into the house drain or house sewer or ejectors, pumps or other
equally efficient approved mechanical device.
      5.   The discharge line from such ejector, pump, or other mechanical
device shall be provided with an accessible backwater valve and gate valve, and
if the gravity drainage line to which such discharge line connects is
horizontal, the method of connection shall be from the top through a "Y" branch
fitting.
      6.   All backwater valves, gate valves, motors, compressors, air tanks,
or other mechanical devices shall be located where they will be accessible for
inspection and repair at all times, and unless continuously exposed, shall be
enclosed in a watertight masonry pit, fitted with a removable cover. The pipe
leading to an ejector or other appliance for raising sewage or other waste
matter to the street sewer shall, where a water closet or closets are
installed, be provided with a vent pipe not less than three inches (3") in
diameter, and where fixtures other than water closets are installed, the waste
vent pipe shall be the same diameter as the waste pipe. (1990 Code §3-404)
      7.   All sumps and receiving tanks shall be constructed of concrete or
Fiberglas pipe. If constructed of concrete, the walls and bottom shall be not
less than six inches (6") thick. Metal sumps and receiving tanks shall be of
such thickness as to serve the purpose for which they are intended, and shall
be painted inside and outside with corrosion resisting paint. All such sumps
and receiving tanks shall be automatically discharged. All sumps and receiving
tanks shall be provided with substantial and tight covers having a manhole that
will permit access to the tank for repairs and cleaning. Air tanks shall be so
proportioned as to be of equal cubical capacity to the ejectors connected
therewith in which there shall be maintained an air pressure of not less than
two (2) pounds for each foot of height the sewage is to be raised. No water-
operated ejectors shall be permitted. (1990 Code §3-404; amd. 2018 Code)
      8.   When subsoil drainage systems are installed, they shall discharge
into an approved sump or receiving tank entirely separate and independent of
any other drainage piping. Automatic mechanical ejectors or pumps shall be used
to lift the drainage from such sump or receiving tank, and the discharge
therefrom shall terminate over a properly trapped and vented fixture of such
capacity as to prevent flooding. No water-operated ejectors shall be permitted.
      9.   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Director. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification
(C12-19) except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved. All backfills across streets or alleys must be properly
tamped. (1990 Code §3-404)
      10.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight
and shall be not less than one inch (1") deep.
      11.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.
When a "Y" branch is not properly located or available, a neat hole may be cut
into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). The
building sewer shall enter or be connected to the public sewer in the top one-
half (1/2) of the public sewer. The connection to be made through a special
fitting which shall be the hub end of an action of the house sewer pipe cut off
or a V saddle type of connection, inserted into the tap opening of the main,
either type thoroughly caulked and cemented so as to make a tight and secure
joint.
      12.   In attaching this hub fitting to the main, the hub end of the pipe
shall be cut short enough so that the shoulder of the hub shall rest flush on
the main with the end of the pipe to extend into the immediate wall of the main
so that the end thereof shall be flush with the inner face of the said wall.
The end of said pipe shall be cut to conform to the arc of said inner wall.
Each system of piping shall be laid in a separate trench when practicable. If
water piping is laid in the same trench as the sewer, it shall be at least one
foot (1') above the top edge of the sewer and offset at least eighteen inches
(18") from the central line of the sewer.
      13.   Cleanouts shall be placed at the junction of the building drain and
the building sewer and at intervals in the building sewer not to exceed one
hundred feet (100') and at changes in direction of the building sewer of ninety
degrees (90°) or more. Where the depth of the building sewer is four feet (4')
or more, the cleanout shall consist of a "Y" branch and one- eighth (1/8) bend
or a vertical riser extending the cleanout to the surface of the ground. All
cleanouts shall be plugged with air and watertight cleanout fittings. Cleanout
fittings shall be of the same nominal size as the pipes they serve, up to and
including four inch (4") pipe, and not less than four inches (4") for larger
pipes. (1990 Code §3-404; amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Director or his representative.
   G.   Guarding Excavations; Restoration Of Public Ways: All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the City. (1990 Code §3-404)
6-3-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Stormwater; Other Drainage: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   B.   Hazardous Or Toxic Waters And Wastes: Except as hereinafter provided,
no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F). (1990 Code §3-405)
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain fat, oil, or grease. (1990 Code
§3-405; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   C.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors Required:
      1.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity and accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      2.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
      3.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
   D.   Maintaining Preliminary Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary
treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense.
   E.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment
therefor by the industrial concern. (1990 Code §3-405)
6-3-6: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the Municipal sewage works. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (1990
Code §3-406; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
The Director and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code §3-407)
6-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. Any
offender who shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, not
permanently cease such violation shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §3-408)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: System Established
6-4-4: Compulsory Use
6-4-5: Collection Fees
6-4-6: Refuse Fund
6-4-7: Burning And Dumping
6-4-8: Refuse Containers
6-4-9: Rubbish, Special Handling
6-4-10: Vacated Premises
6-4-11: Collection Period
6-4-12: Inspection
6-4-13: Means Of Collection
6-4-14: Materials Not Acceptable For Collection
6-4-15: Vehicles Used For Collection
6-4-16: Penalty
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate unhealthy, unsanitary and unsightly
conditions in the City caused by the deposit and accumulation of refuse. (1990
Code §8-101)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section. Certain words not defined herein shall be
defined as provided in section
1-3-2 of this Code; all other words shall be given the meanings ordinarily
applied to such words.
COLLECTOR: The person holding a contract with the City of Winchester for the
collection of garbage and refuse, or the person employed by the City of
Winchester and thereby authorized and designated by the City to collect,
handle, transport and dispose of refuse and waste.
GARBAGE:
   A.   "Garbage" shall include all putrescible waste, including waste
accumulated of animal, food, or vegetable matter, and including waste that
attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish,
fowl, fruit and vegetables, and shall include all of such wastes or
accumulations of vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels and places
where food is prepared for human consumption.
   B.   "Garbage" shall not include sewage and human waste or recognized
industrial byproducts.
INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or employees of the City of Winchester, or
some individual designated by the City Council as having the duty of the
enforcement of this chapter.
OWNER AND OCCUPANT: The terms "owner" and "occupant" may be used
interchangeably, and shall mean every person in possession, charge or in
control of any dwelling, flat, rooming house, or any eating place, shop, place
of business, manufacturing or business establishment where garbage or other
refuse is created or accumulated.
REFUSE: Solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Refuse other than garbage (such as: tin cans, bottles, ashes, paper,
pasteboard, cardboard or wooden boxes, brush, leaves, weeds, and cuttings from
trees, lawns, gardens and shrubs) produced in the normal course of doing
business or everyday living.
WASTE: Unwanted solid, liquid, or gaseous materials. (1990 Code §8-102)
6-4-3: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established a system of refuse collection,
transportation and disposal. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of collection, transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over
the streets or alleys, or to dump or dispose of the same unless and until such
person has a contract therefor as an authorized representative of the City.
   B.   This regulation does not prohibit a person from hauling or transporting
extra loads or accumulations of rubbish from the premises owned or occupied by
said person to one of the official disposal sites of the City that may be
hereafter established. (1990 Code §8-103)
6-4-4: COMPULSORY USE:
   A.   Every owner or occupant of the premises within the prescribed limits of
the City must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided,
and shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this chapter, all
rubbish and garbage.
   B.   The failure of any person to use the collection and disposal system
herein provided shall not exempt such person from the payment of the charges as
set forth in the rules and regulations on refuse control, save and except for
the provisions as set forth in this chapter. (1990 Code §8-104)
6-4-5: COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   The fees, rates and charges for collection of garbage and refuse within
the City are hereby fixed and determined to be those charges set forth in that
certain contract between the City of Winchester and Walco, Inc., dated January
1, 1991, any amendments duly made hereafter to that contract, or any subsequent
contract for solid waste disposal that shall hereafter be made and shall
hereafter be in force.
   B.   Provided, however, that where the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will work a financial hardship, or where the garbage and refuse is of
such small amounts as to not warrant the collection of the full fees and
charges as provided by this chapter, the City Council may issue a special
permit altering the provisions or this chapter and the fees and rates herein
set forth. (1990 Code §8-110)
6-4-6: REFUSE FUND:
The proceeds from the collection of fees and charges herein provided shall be
placed in a special fund to be known as the Refuse Service Revenue Fund, and
all payments to the refuse contractor and direct expenses of the City in the
operation of the refuse collection and disposal system shall be paid out of
such fund, and any surpluses remaining therein may be transferred by the City
Clerk-Treasurer to the General Fund of the City. (1990 Code §8-111)
6-4-7: BURNING AND DUMPING:
No person shall burn, incinerate, bury, dump, collect, remove or in any other
manner dispose of rubbish or garbage except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Interior Incinerator: Any person, firm or corporation may use an
incinerator in the interior of a building between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. for rubbish, provided such
incinerator meets the requirements of the Building Code.
   B.   Exterior Incinerator: Burning of rubbish will be allowed in exterior
incinerators between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. Such incinerators shall be built of noncombustible material of not
lighter than one- eighth inch (1/8") metal, block or brick, covered by one inch
(1") wire mesh screen. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit
the use of outdoor fireplaces, barbecue pits or grills, in preparing food or
for recreational purposes.
   C.   Open Burning; Permit: Burning of rubbish may be done in vacant lots by
the owner thereof upon obtaining a permit from the Fire Department for such
burning. (1990 Code §8-105)
6-4-8: REFUSE CONTAINERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any place where
garbage or rubbish is created or accumulated to at all times keep or cause to
be kept portable approved containers for the deposit therein of rubbish and
garbage; and, except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited
all rubbish and garbage therein. All garbage shall, before deposit in such can,
be wrapped in paper or other material so as to prevent the escape of liquids
therefrom.
   B.   All such containers shall be watertight and not easily corrodible,
rodentproof and flyproof, shall be equipped with handles and a close fitting
lid. Such containers shall be not less than ten (10) gallons' capacity, nor
more than thirty two (32) gallons' capacity. The combined weight of any refuse
container and its contents shall not exceed seventy five (75) pounds. All metal
containers shall be of not less than twenty eight (28) gauge metal or the
equivalent, and be hot dipped after fabrication to assure nonleaking cans. All
other containers must be guaranteed by the manufacturer and so labeled to be
leakproof regardless of manufacturing processes. Such lid shall not be removed
except when necessary to place garbage and rubbish in such container or to take
the same therefrom. Whenever garbage or rubbish is placed therein or taken
therefrom, such lid shall be replaced by the person placing therein or taking
therefrom such garbage or rubbish. Such containers shall be kept in sanitary
conditions, with the inside and outside thereof washed at such times as to keep
the same free and clean of all accumulating grease and decomposing material and
so that no odor nuisance shall exist.
   C.   All garbage or refuse cans shall be placed in a place accessible to the
collector; provided, that in the case of isolated dwellings or places of
business or where reasonable access cannot be had by a truck, the cans may be
kept in such places as may be agreed upon by the owner and collector, or at
such place as may be designated by the inspector. Where there is no alley
entrance, such cans shall be placed and adjacent to street curb on collection
days. (1990 Code §8-106)
6-4-9: RUBBISH, SPECIAL HANDLING:
Rubbish consisting only of cardboard or wooden boxes, brush, leaves, wood and
cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens, may be kept separately without
depositing in such containers; provided, that bulk materials, such as leaves,
shall be in a can, box, sack or receptacle for ease of loading and that brush,
etc., shall be cut in lengths not more than four feet (4') long, and tied in
bundles. Compost piles may be maintained for fertilization purposes and matter
used for fertilization purposes only may be transported, kept, and used.
Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to permit the violation of any
ordinance or any rule or regulation of the Fire Department of the City. (1990
Code §8-107)
6-4-10: VACATED PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, upon vacating or removing from dwellings,
storerooms or any other building situated in the City, to fail to remove all
garbage and rubbish from such building and premises, and also the grounds
appurtenant thereto; or to fail to place the same in a thoroughly sanitary
condition within twenty four (24) hours after the said premises shall be
vacated. (1990 Code §8-108)
6-4-11: COLLECTION PERIOD:
Collectors shall collect rubbish and garbage from each customer at least once
each week, or as may otherwise be provided by the rules and regulations of the
City Council. (1990 Code §8-109)
6-4-12: INSPECTION:
The City personnel or such other person as may be designated as sanitary
inspector, or any other person concerned with the enforcement of laws, shall
have the right of ingress and egress to any premises for the purpose or
inspection of places and containers where rubbish or garbage is accumulated or
kept. (1990 Code §8-112)
6-4-13: MEANS OF COLLECTION:
   A.   It shall be optional whether the City collects garbage and rubbish with
its own equipment and employees, or makes a contract with a person to collect
garbage and rubbish. The City Council shall, by resolution, elect the method or
methods to be used in the collection of garbage and rubbish. The Mayor shall be
the sole authority to contract or perform all services pertaining to refuse
collection and disposal, and is hereby authorized to enter into contracts with
one or more contractors and establish reasonable rules and regulations
governing the conduct and operation of such contracts.
   B.   The City Council may require of any such contractor, a bond in a
reasonable amount, the condition of which shall be the satisfactory performance
of the contract. (1990 Code §8-113)
6-4-14: MATERIALS NOT ACCEPTABLE FOR COLLECTION:
Dirt or earth debris from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones,
automobile bodies and parts, dead animals, building materials such as masonry,
plaster, scrap lumber and wood shavings, are not acceptable for collection, and
such items shall be collected and disposed of by the building contractor, owner
or occupants of the premises. (1990 Code §8-114)
6-4-15: VEHICLES USED FOR COLLECTION:
All collectors shall furnish vehicles designed for the collection and hauling
of garbage and rubbish. The collector shall keep such vehicles clean, sanitary,
neatly painted and in good running order, and shall wash, clean and disinfect
all such vehicles at least once a week. Each vehicle shall be equipped with a
tight metal body, or if a wooden body, shall be metal lined so as to be
watertight, and each vehicle shall at all times be provided with a suitable
cover securely fastened in such a manner as to retain dust and prevent the
scattering or dropping of rubbish or garbage upon public or private property.
(1990 Code §8-115)
6-4-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished pursuant to
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code §8-116)
TITLE 7
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose
7-1-2: Identification Of Applicable Comprehensive Plan
7-1-3: Public Availability Of Plan
7-1-4: Amendment Of Comprehensive Plan
7-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of adopting a comprehensive plan is to provide for public officials
and private citizens a guide for making decisions that affect the future of the
City of Winchester. In order to avoid adverse effects of unplanned growth, the
comprehensive plan provides guidelines, policies and goals for logical growth.
The comprehensive plan provides the basis on which future zoning ordinances and
amendments can be based. (1990 Code §4-601)
7-1-2: IDENTIFICATION OF APPLICABLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan that is officially adopted by the City by this reference
is the plan dated January 1980, certified copies of which are filed at the
Office of the City Clerk- Treasurer. (1990 Code §4-602; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-3: PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF PLAN:
Not less than three (3) copies of such comprehensive plan duly certified by the
City Clerk-Treasurer, have been filed for use and examination by the public in
the Office of the City Clerk- Treasurer. (1990 Code §4-603)
7-1-4: AMENDMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6509(d), any person may petition and
recommend amendments to the comprehensive plan at any time. The Council will
review the request and follow proper amendment procedures if they feel it is in
the best interest of the City.
(1990 Code §4-604; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Geographic Area Of City Impact
7-2-3: Designation Of Permitted Use
7-2-4: Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance
7-2-5: Subdivision Ordinance
7-2-6: Review And Comment; Approval
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an Area of City Impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the City of Winchester and place it under appropriate
land development regulation. The fringe area includes the incorporated area
surrounding Winchester that has a potential for development and that could
affect the provision of public services or the quality of life in the City.
(1990 Code §4-701)
7-2-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The officially adopted geographic Area of City Impact includes all
unincorporated land within Section 31 and 32, T. 34N. R. 2W; and Section 5 and
6, T. 33N, R. 2W. All parcels of land, or portions thereof, lying within the
Area of City Impact shall be subject to provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code
§4-702)
7-2-3: DESIGNATION OF PERMITTED USE:
The geographical Area of City Impact as defined by the ordinances of the City
shall be designated and zoned as agricultural. Likewise, the comprehensive plan
and zoning ordinances of the City are amended to provide for such use. (1990
Code §4-703)
7-2-4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE:
The comprehensive plan and the zoning ordinance, and subsequent amendments
thereto, as officially adopted by the City Council shall apply to the Area of
City Impact. (1990 Code §4-704)
7-2-5: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1308, the subdivision ordinance and
subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted by the City Council shall
apply to all plats situated within one mile outside of the City limits. The
subdivision ordinance and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by the Board of County Commissioners shall also apply to all other plats
situated within the Area of City Impact. (1990 Code §4-705)
7-2-6: REVIEW AND COMMENT; APPROVAL:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, or variance
within the Area of City Impact shall initially be referred to the Board of
County Commissioners, Lewis County, Idaho, for review and comment. The County
Commissioners shall have forty (40) days to consider the request, and submit a
reply to the City Council. If no reply is received by the Council within the
forty (40) day period, the Board forfeits its right to comment on the request,
and processing shall continue under the City's administration. Both the City
Council and Board shall approve all subdivision plats within the Area of City
Impact, pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-1306 and 50-1308. (1990 Code §4-706)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Adoption Of Building Codes
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Right Of Entry
7-3-4: Building Permit Fees
7-3-5: Penalty
7-3-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES:
   A.   Codes Adopted: There is hereby adopted by the City, for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures, the approved editions of the following nationally recognized
codes, as adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board:
      1.   International Building Code, including all rules promulgated by the
Idaho Building Code Board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the
Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines and the Federal Fair
Housing Act Accessibility Guidelines.
      2.   International Residential Code, parts I through IV and IX.
      3.   International Energy Conservation Code.
      4.   International Fire Code.
   B.   Successive Versions Adopted: The adopted versions of the foregoing
codes shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of such codes as they
are adopted by the Idaho Building Code Board, effective on the date any such
codes are made effective by the Idaho Building Code Board. (Ord. 238; amd. 2018
Code)
   C.   Copies On File: One copy each of the adopted versions of the codes
adopted in subsection A of this section, either in hard copy or electronic
format, shall be duly certified and kept on file in the Office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for use and examination by the public. (2018 Code)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Whenever the words "Municipality" or "City" are used in the Building
Code, they shall be held to mean the City of Winchester.
   B.   Whenever the term "Corporate Counsel" is used in the Building Code, it
shall be held to mean the attorney for the City of Winchester. (1990 Code §4-
402)
7-3-3: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building official or other officer appointed by the City Council to act as
the building official under the Building Code shall, in the discharge of his
official duties, and upon proper identification, have authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour. (1990 Code §4-403)
7-3-4: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees: The required fee for each building permit shall
accompany every application for a building permit, or the City Clerk-Treasurer
is authorized not to accept the same. Additional fees may be charged for
checking plans and specifications or for inspection services. (1990 Code §4-
404; amd. 2018 Code)
7-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or the codes
adopted in section 7-3-1 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Permit Required; Fee
7-4-2: Bond Or Liability Insurance
7-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to move any house, building or other structure of any kind or
nature upon, over, along or across any of the streets or alleys in the City
without first obtaining from the City Clerk-Treasurer a permit therefor, which
said permit shall state the following:
      1.   The name of the owner of said house, building or other structure.
      2.   The name of the person to whom the said permit is granted.
      3.   The place from which and the place to which it is desired to move
the said house, building or other structure.
      4.   The streets and alleys along, over, upon and across which it is
desired to move the same.
      5.   The length of time required to be fixed by the City Council. (1990
Code §4-301)
   B.   Permit Fee: The applicant for the permit provided for in subsection A
of this section shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of five dollars
($5.00) for each and every permit so issued by him, which said money shall be
accounted for by the said Clerk-Treasurer in the same manner as are other
monies collected by other officials of the City. (1990 Code §4-304)
7-4-2: BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Sufficient Bond Or Insurance Filed: Before the permit shall be granted
by the Clerk-Treasurer, the applicant for such permit shall file with the City
Clerk-Treasurer a good and sufficient bond or liability insurance policy in a
sum to be fixed by the City Clerk-Treasurer, saving the City harmless from any
accident or damages that may result from the moving of such house, building, or
other structure, which said bond shall be approved by the City Attorney. (1990
Code §4-302)
   B.   Filing Continuous Bond: If the person, firm or corporation making
application for the permit provided for in this chapter shall be regularly
engaged in the business of moving houses, buildings and other structures in the
City, the said person, firm or corporation may, upon application to the City
Clerk- Treasurer, be permitted to file a continuing bond or liability insurance
policy conditioned as provided in this chapter, which said bond or insurance
policy shall cover all moving of houses, buildings and other structures, in
which the said person, firm or corporation may be engaged during the fiscal
year in which said application is made, and thereafter it shall not be
necessary for said person, firm or corporation to file a separate bond or
liability insurance policy with each and every application for the permit
provided for in this chapter. (1990 Code §4-303)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Permit Required; Application
7-5-4: Park Requirements And Restrictions
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of land for mobile home
parks and to establish standards for the development of such parks in order to
protect the health and safety of the community. (1990 Code §4-801)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be
defined as follows.
MANUFACTURED HOME/MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land under unified ownership
developed for the purpose of providing nontransient rental space for parking
manufactured homes on individual spaces within its confines.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME:
   A.   Housing designed for long term residential use and built off site in a
factory setting, and then transported to a site for installation and use when
connected to required utilities.
   B.   Mobile/manufactured homes are divided into classes as specified in the
definition of "mobile/manufactured homes" in section
8-2-2 of this Code. (1990 Code §4-802)
7-5-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   A permit is required to operate or maintain a manufactured or mobile
home park.
   B.   Applications are available through City Hall. (1990 Code §4-803)
7-5-4: PARK REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Minimum Park Area And Access: A mobile/manufactured home park shall
have a minimum of one acre, and shall include sufficient frontage on a public
street or road to allow safe ingress and egress.
   B.   Density And Minimum Lot Size: The maximum density for a mobile/
manufactured home park shall be eight (8) units per gross acre, and each
mobile/manufactured home park lot shall contain a minimum of five thousand
(5,000) square feet. The maximum lot coverage for each mobile/manufactured home
lot shall be sixty percent (60%). Interior park drives, public street rights-
of-way, and common areas used for parking or other park purposes are excluded
from the five thousand (5,000) square feet per unit area requirement.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   A minimum setback for a mobile/manufactured home shall be twenty
feet (20') from the property line adjacent to the front access road.
      2.   No mobile/manufactured home shall be located closer than three feet
(3') to the boundary line on either side of the mobile/manufactured home lot,
or closer than ten feet (10') to the front boundary of said lot, or closer than
five feet (5') to the rear boundary line of said lot, or closer than fifteen
feet (15') to any other mobile/manufactured home or permanent structure within
the mobile home park.
   D.   Lots Numbered: Each mobile/manufactured home lot shall be numbered. The
numbers shall be clearly visible from the park's interior drives/streets.
   E.   Interior Park Drives: Each mobile/manufactured home lot or space within
a mobile/manufactured home park shall have direct access to an interior park
drive and shall not have individual access to a public right-of-way. Interior
park drives shall consist of a minimum of twenty five feet (25') with at least
a gravel surface and there shall be no parking on either side of the drive.
Layout of mobile/manufactured home park's interior drives shall be in such a
manner as to provide adequate maneuvering for emergency vehicles. A mobile/
manufactured home park with only one interior drive may be required to provide
an emergency vehicle turnaround with a diameter of fifty two feet (52').
   F.   Utility Connections, Anchors, Pads: Each mobile/manufactured home lot
shall be provided with utility connections, ground anchors, piers or pads and
stabilizing connections of sufficient size to properly accommodate the mobile/
manufactured home unit in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and
code requirement. All mobile/manufactured homes within the park shall be
skirted.
   G.   Landscaping: Landscaping in the mobile/manufactured home park shall be
provided in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Peripheral Screening: The mobile/manufactured home park owner shall
provide peripheral site screening of trees, shrubs or other suitable sight
obstructing screen or fence.
      2.   Lawn Or Ground Cover: Lawn or other suitable ground cover shall be
provided for all open spaces other than access drives and parking circulation.
   H.   Confinement Of Runoff: Control of surface water runoff shall be
provided to confine all runoff to the property, or to drainage facilities
within public rights-of-way. (1990 Code §4-804)
   I.   Maintenance Agreement: A maintenance agreement, approved by the City
Council or its designee, shall be provided to assure the continued operation
and maintenance of interior drives, utilities, landscaping and solid waste
management. The park owner will be responsible for the provision of a suitable
guarantee that the park will be constructed within a two (2) year time period
and/or in accordance with standards set forth by the City Council. (1990 Code
§4-804; amd. 2018 Code)
   J.   Sewers: Each mobile/manufactured home lot shall be connected to a City
sewer system approved by the proper jurisdiction.
   K.   Storage Of Home Prohibited: No mobile/manufactured home shall be hauled
to, or stored within a mobile/manufactured home park unless it is properly
erected on a site approved for such use.
   L.   Animals: Aviaries, poultry, farm animals and horses are prohibited.
   M.   Alteration Or Enlargement Of Existing Parks: Mobile/manufactured home
parks in existence as of the effective date hereof shall be permitted to
continue as an established land use but shall not be altered so as to deviate
below the minimum standards of this chapter. Any addition to an existing
mobile/manufactured home park shall meet all of the standards required by this
chapter. If an addition or series of additions result in the doubling of the
size of an existing mobile/manufactured home park, then the entire park shall
be required to meet all standards required by this chapter. (1990 Code §4-804)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Permit Required; Application
7-6-4: Park Requirements And Restrictions
7-6-5: Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles
7-6-1: PURPOSE:
The City Council hereby finds and declares that the indiscriminate placement
and use of recreational vehicles (RVs) on individual lots within the City
threatens the health and safety of citizens, and damages property values. In
order to protect property values, to preserve the intent of the City
comprehensive plan, and to promote the general safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City, recreational vehicles shall be located only within
approved recreational vehicle parks, or as otherwise allowed in this Code 1 .
(Ord., 3-6-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 5 of this Code.
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
RV PARK: A tract of land with one or more spaces rented for the parking of
recreational vehicles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A wheeled vehicle less than ten feet (10') in width at
its widest point, self-propelled or unpowered, and/or qualifying for a State of
Idaho recreational vehicle permit. (Ord., 3-6-1995)
7-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit is required to operate or maintain any
recreational vehicle park. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
City Council through the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council shall then act
upon the application either granting or denying said application. (Ord., 3-6-
1995; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Transfer Of Permit:
      1.   No recreational vehicle park permit shall be transferrable. Every
person holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to the City within
five (5) days after having sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of any
interest in, or control of, an RV facility, unless a new permit has been
granted to subsequent owners or if an application for a new permit is pending.
      2.   Applications for permits by prospective new owners may be made in
advance of any sale or transfer, and shall be approved if the terms of the
applicable ordinances are met.
   C.   Plot Plan: A recreational vehicle park permit holder shall maintain a
current plot plan of each recreational vehicle park and ensure that such
current plot plan is on file with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   D.   Permit Revocation Or Suspension: The City Council is hereby authorized
to revoke or suspend any recreational vehicle park permit issued hereunder if,
after due investigation, it determines that the holder thereof has violated any
of the provisions of this chapter or that any recreational vehicle park is
being maintained or operated in an unsanitary or unsafe manner, or, because of
the manner of operation, constitutes a public nuisance. (Ord., 3-6-1995)
7-6-4: PARK REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alteration Or Enlargement Of Existing Parks: Recreational vehicle parks
in use as of the effective date hereof shall be permitted to continue as an
established land use, but shall not be altered, in either construction or
operation, so as to cause any deviation from the minimum standards of this
chapter, insofar as the pre-existing use complies with this chapter on the
effective date hereof. If a nonconforming recreational vehicle park is enlarged
in either area or in usage (e.g., number of spaces available for rental or an
increase in seasonal availability of rental spaces), the entire park shall be
subject to the provisions hereof, specifically including, but not limited to,
the standards herein and the requirement of a permit.
   B.   Records Required: Every recreational vehicle park shall at all times
keep a register of all guests or tenants which shall be open to inspection by
State, Federal, and City officials. Said register shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Names and addresses of each guest or tenant.
      2.   Dates of entrance and departure.
      3.   Vehicle registration numbers and state of issue of each recreational
vehicle and tow vehicle.
   C.   Maintenance: Each recreational vehicle park shall be kept in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition at all times.
   D.   Fire Protection: Each recreational vehicle park shall be subject to
inspection by the City Fire Chief and shall have installed and maintained fire
protection equipment such as fire extinguishers, fire hydrants and other
equipment in such quantities, qualities and locations as specified by said Fire
Chief, and as may be necessary to meet all applicable Building and Life Safety
Codes. Open fires shall not be allowed in a recreational vehicle park except in
locations and in facilities approved by the Fire Chief.
   E.   Interior Park Drives: All spaces within the recreational vehicle park
shall have direct access to an interior roadway not less than twenty five feet
(25') in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or
highway. Dead-end roadways shall provide adequate vehicle turning space, or a
cul-de-sac with not less than a fifty two foot (52') diameter exclusive of
parking.
   F.   Landscaping And Screening: The recreational vehicle park boundaries
shall be reasonably screened from outside view, whether by barriers of
ornamental fences, walls, trees or shrubs to assure reasonable integration with
adjoining land usages and to assure the health, safety and quiet enjoyment of
the area.
   G.   Occupant Improvement: Recreational vehicle park space occupants shall
not be permitted to erect or install any structures.
   H.   Utilities: All recreational vehicle spaces will be serviced by water,
sewer, and electrical hookups. Generators on individual recreational vehicles
will not be allowed to operate between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
   I.   Storage Of Hazardous Materials: Storage of hazardous or potentially
hazardous materials shall not be allowed beneath recreational vehicles.
Hazardous or potentially hazardous materials include, but are not limited to,
flammable liquids, combustible liquids, compressed gas, combustible waste
matter, fireworks, firearms, or ammunition. (Ord., 3-6-1995)
7-6-5: PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Automotive vehicles or trailer, or any kind or type of recreational
vehicle without current license plates shall not be parked or stored on any
residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed buildings or
carports. However, one (1) boat and one (1) unoccupied travel trailer or other
recreational vehicle may be stored in the side or rear yard.
   B.   No trailer, camper or other recreational vehicle parked or stored
within the city limits shall be connected to water and/or sewer unless located
in an approved recreation vehicle park, except as specifically allowed herein.
   C.   Trailers, campers, or other recreational vehicle units shall not be
stored on city property or city rights-of-way, or in such a manner as to
infringe upon access to such property or right-of-way.
   D.   Trailers, campers, or other recreational vehicles shall not be occupied
as permanent or temporary dwellings except under the following conditions:
      1.   In an approved recreation vehicle park.
      2.   As a temporary building during construction and then only after the
issuance of a building permit for such construction.
      3.   As a temporary guest facility for no more than fourteen (14) days
during a thirty (30) day period.
      4.   A Homeowner may apply to the City Council, through the City Clerk to
use a trailer, camper, or other recreational vehicle as a temporary dwelling
for more than fourteen (14) days during a thirty (30) day period. Said
application must be made at the regular City Council meeting held prior to the
beginning the proposed use. The application must include duration of the use
requested, demonstrate appropriate use of appropriate water, sewage and
sanitation service, and that the immediate adjoining properties have no
objection to the proposed use request. The City Council, may at it's sole
discretion, grant or deny the application. (Ord. 210, 3-6-1995; amd. Ord. 293,
3-4-2021)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY AND PURPOSES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title And Authority
8-1-2: General Purposes
8-1-3: Minimum Requirements; Prevailing Provisions
8-1-4: Severability
8-1-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Title: This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
WINCHESTER, IDAHO. It shall consist of the following text in this title and a
"zoning map" which readily identifies the location of districts and
subdistricts.
   B.   Authority: This title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 65 and article XII, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution,
as amended and codified. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-1-2: GENERAL PURPOSES:
It is the intent of the City Council to provide uniform, equitable and
reasonable standards to govern the usage of land and structures. In order to
promote the health, safety and general welfare, the City seeks:
   A.   To ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided to
persons at a reasonable cost.
   B.   To protect against fire, nuisances, and other hazards.
   C.   To conserve and stabilize property values.
   D.   To avoid air and water pollution.
   E.   To ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the
physical characteristics of the land.
   F.   To stabilize expectations regarding future development. (Ord. 275, 4-2-
2015)
8-1-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; PREVAILING PROVISIONS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title are held
to be minimum requirements. Whenever requirements of this title conflict with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances,
or resolutions, that imposing the higher standards shall govern. (Ord. 275, 4-
2-2015)
8-1-4: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this title as a whole or any other part. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Interpretation
8-2-2: Terms Defined
8-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Words not defined herein shall be given the meanings ordinarily applied
to such words.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement; the word "may" is a
permissive requirement; and the word "should" is a preferred requirement. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
8-2-2: TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING: A subordinate use of a building customarily incident
to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main building or utilized for
the main purpose.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
livestock, farming, dairying, or animal husbandry, including all uses,
customarily accessory and incidental thereto but not including slaughterhouses,
fertilizer works, bone yards or plants for the reduction of animal matter.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the City or its additions
and designated therein as an alley.
ALTER; ALTERATIONS: Any change, addition or modification in construction or
occupancy.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building or portion thereof used or intended to be used as
the home of three (3) or more families or households living independently of
each other.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A facility or residence operated as either a profit
or nonprofit for the purpose of providing necessary supervision, personal
assistance, meals and lodging to adults not related to the owner.
AUTO WRECKING OR JUNK YARDS: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation; any land, building or structure used for wrecking
or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof and including any farm
vehicles or farm machinery or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging and
scavenging of any other goods, articles, or merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE: A passenger vehicle.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any premises used for supplying gasoline and oil at
retail direct to the customer, including accessories for automobiles.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above level of the adjoining ground, a basement shall be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are placed signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notes, or a
sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BLOCK: That property so designated on an official map of the City or part of
the City or bounded by a street or streets and railroad right-of-way, or
unsubdivided acreage.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof, other than a hotel or barracks
where meals and lodging for three (3) or more persons are provided for
compensation.
BREEZEWAY: A covered passageway between buildings which does not exceed ten
feet (10') in width and which has at least one side open, except for necessary
supporting.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure, or protection of
persons, animals, or chattels.
BUILDING AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after the
adherence to the minimum open space requirements.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The height of a building is the vertical distance at the
center of a building's principal front measured from the establishment grade to
the highest point of the roof, beams or in case of a flat roof, to the deckline
or mansard or to the center height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip or
gambrel roofline. The height may be measured from the average elevation of the
finished sidewalk grade along the front of the building.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: State certified Building Code inspector.
BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this title, the building line is the same as
a front yard setback line.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main use of the lot
in which it is situated.
CARPORT: A structure attached or made a part of the main structure which is
open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the use of
sheltering not more than two (2) motor driven vehicles.
CLUB OR LODGE: An association of persons for the promotion of some common
object, members of which are admitted only on invitation and the chief activity
of which is not conducted for profit.
CONDITIONAL USE: See definition of special use.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A building and premises in which and on which two (2) or
more sick, injured or infirm persons are housed or intended to be housed for
compensation.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, and bounded on two (2) or more sides by a building, or buildings,
including the open space in a dwelling group providing access to the units
thereof.
CURB GRADE: The establishment of the curb measured at the center of the front
of a building. Where no curb grade has been established, the City shall
establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this title.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the City for which
the regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land are
uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
DUPLEX: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2) families.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile, house trailer
designed exclusively for residential occupancy including one-family, two-
family, and multiple- family dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding, and
lodging houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy
by three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY 1 : A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
not more than one family, or any group residence in which eight (8) or fewer
unrelated persons with disabilities (mental, physical or developmental) or
elderly persons reside and who are supervised at the group residence in
connection with their disability or age related infirmity.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
two (2) families living independently of each other.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose of any designated part of his/her property.
ESTABLISHED GRADE: The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established
by the engineer or otherwise as given and established under the direction of
the Governing Body.
EXISTING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof legally existing
on the effective date hereof.
EXISTING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land on the effective
date hereof.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals living together as single housekeeping units.
FRONT PROPERTY LINE: The front line as shown on the official plat of the
property in question.
FRONT YARD: Any open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the front line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the property line.
FRONTAGE: All the property fronting on one side of a street, between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway end of a dead end street, or City boundary, measured along the street
line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage
of the side of the street which it intercepts.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the storage of not more than three
(3) motor driven vehicles of which not more than one shall be a commercial
vehicle of not more than two (2) ton capacity.
GRADE: The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of a
building. In case walls are parallel to, and within five feet (5') of, the
sidewalk, the ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the resident of a dwelling as a
secondary use within the same dwelling.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guest rooms; and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
INSTITUTION: An organization or society for some public or social purpose.
JUNKYARD: Any land, property, building, structure, or combination thereof used
for the storage of junk, including scrap materials and metals, or wrecked
vehicles and machinery, whether or not sale of such junk is made or proposed.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which three (3) or more dogs more than four (4)
months of age are kept.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of products is not to be permitted within this
definition.
LOADING AREA: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the loading
or unloading of vehicles.
LODGING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guest rooms where lodging
is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not open to
the public or transients.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a principal building, and accessory
buildings including such open space as is required under this title and having
a frontage upon a street or alley, where not appearing on any dedicated plat by
number. But where appearing on a dedicated official plat by a number, a lot
means the area and surface as shown on said plat and given a prescribed number,
excepting whereby any lot is subdivided and occupied by separate buildings or
units; then the term lot shall include each subdivision of the dedicated lot.
LOT AREA: The total of a lot computed exclusively of any portion of the right-
of-way of any public or private street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot on a corner fronting on two (2) intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the two (2) side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The established division lines between parcels of land, public or
private.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lines.
MANUFACTURE: Preparation, making, treatment, or processing of articles as
merchandise.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A site or tract of land under single ownership or control
upon which two (2) or more mobile homes are parked for nontransient habitation,
and which meets the definitions set forth in
title 7, chapter 5 of this Code.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOMES: A detached single-family dwelling unit which is mass
produced in a factory; is designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities; and is designed
for long term residential use. For the purpose of this title, mobile/
manufactured homes shall be divided into the following classes:
   A.   Class A:
      1.   Constructed after July 1, 1976, and certified as meeting mobile home
construction and safety standards of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
      2.   At least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest point.
      3.   Has a foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted
specifications by the manufacturer.
      4.   Any hitch or tongue must be removed.
   B.   Class B:
      1.   Constructed after July 1, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
      2.   Has a foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted
specifications of the manufacturer.
      3.   If located in a mobile home park, the manufactured home must be
skirted in a material that is aesthetically pleasing and generally acceptable
for manufactured home use.
      4.   At least ten feet (10') wide at its narrowest point and forty feet
(40') long.
   C.   Class C:
      1.   A manufactured home that does not meet the mobile home construction
and safety standards of the Department of Housing and Urban Development but is
found upon inspection to be suitable for residential occupancy and eligible for
the insignia of approval by the Department of Labor and Industrial Services.
      2.   Has a foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted
specifications of the manufacturer.
      3.   If located in a mobile home park, the manufactured home must be
skirted in a material that is aesthetically pleasing and generally acceptable
for the manufactured home use.
      4.   At least ten feet (10') wide at its narrowest point and forty feet
(40') long.
MOTEL: A tourist court.
MOTOR HOME: A vehicle designed to be driven and used for human habitation.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or land occupied by a use which does not conform
to the regulations of the use district in which it is situated.
NURSERY SCHOOL: A school used exclusively for the daytime care of preschool age
children.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the care of children, the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the
parking of the automobiles or an unoccupied camping trailer of an occupant of
the dwelling.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use whether
free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING LOT: An open lot or parcel of land used for the storage of motor
vehicles capable of being moved under their own power and exclusive of lots or
parcels of land used for the purpose of dead storage, auto wrecking or
exhibition for sale.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: An area adequate for parking an automobile or
automobiles with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public right-of-way or alley and maneuvering room; but
shall be located outside any street or alley right-of-way.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): An area of land in which a variety of
residential, commercial, industrial, and/or other land uses provided for under
single ownership and control are accommodated in preplanned environment with
more flexible standards, such as lot size and setbacks, than those restrictions
that would normally apply under these regulations.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building projecting out from the wall or walls at
the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
PREMISES: Land or buildings or other improvements thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building owned by the Federal, State, County or City
government or any political subdivision thereof.
PUBLIC GARAGES: Any premises used for the storage or use of more than three (3)
motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are repaired or kept for hire, use or
sale.
RV PARK: A tract of land with one or more spaces rented for the parking of
recreational vehicles.
REAR YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building, between
the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A wheeled vehicle less than ten feet (10') in width at
its widest point, self-propelled or unpowered, and/or qualifying for a State of
Idaho recreational vehicle permit.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: A facility or residence operated as either a profit
or nonprofit for the purpose of providing necessary supervision, personal
assistance, meals and lodging to a person not related to the owner (2
designations: 8 or fewer residents or 9 and above residents).
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY OR HIGH: An institution which offers instructions in the
several branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public
schools by the Education Code of the State of Idaho. High schools include
junior and senior.
SETBACK LINES: A line within a lot paralleling the street line, between which
lines the construction of buildings is prohibited.
SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot as the building, the side
wall line of the buildings and the side lines of the same lot.
SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign of any type of material, installed any place
for outdoor advertising purposes.
SPECIAL USE: An activity specified by this title as a principal or an accessory
use, permitted when authorized by the Council and subject to certain
conditions.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned
by the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORY: That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the room next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between such floor and ceiling next above it.
STORY, HALF: A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than four feet
(4') above the floor of such story.
STREET LINE: The property line or boundary between a street and abutting
property.
STRUCTURES: Anything constructed or erected, except fences, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plane or platform which, for purposes
of this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main structure
and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
THIS TITLE: The term "this title" shall be deemed to include not only this
title as it now exists, but all amendments to this title as the same may
hereafter from time to time be adopted.
TINY HOMES: A dwelling that is four hundred (400) square feet or less in floor
area, excluding lofts (must comply with all building and zoning codes).
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings, including auto
courts, motels or motor lodges, containing individual sleeping or living units,
designed for and used by tourists or transients, with garage attached or
parking space conveniently located at each unit.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motor power used for human habitation, including a
trailer coach or house trailer designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one automobile house trailer.
TRAILER COACH AND MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon and which is
prepared for occupancy by more than one trailer coach or mobile home, to be
occupied for dwelling purposes and located regardless of whether or not a
charge is made for accommodations.
TRAILER COACH AND MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer coach
park.
VARIANCES: A modification of the literal provisions of this title which the
Council may authorize when strict enforcement of said provisions cause undue
hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which said
variance is sought.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 294, 3-4-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6531.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
8-3-1: Official Zoning Map; Boundaries
8-3-2: Districts Established
8-3-1: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Official Zoning Map: The districts established in section
8-3-2 of this chapter as shown on the official zoning map, together with all
explanatory matters thereon, are hereby adopted as part of this title.
   B.   Interpretation Of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following shall apply:
      1.   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerline of the street lines, highway right- of-way lines, streams,
lakes, or other bodies of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such
boundary;
      2.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries;
      3.   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the
centerlines of right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall
be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as
indicated on the Official Zoning Map. If no distance is given, such dimensions
shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the Official Zoning Map;
and
      4.   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks of said
railroad line. (1990 Code §4-503)
8-3-2: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Use Classifications: For the purpose of this title, lands within the
incorporated area of the City and the Area of City Impact are hereby classified
into categories termed "zoning districts" as follows:
 
LAR Lake Area Residential
R-1 Single- And Two-Family Residential
R-2 Multiple-Family Residential
C   Commercial
MP  Multipurpose
I   Industrial
A   Agricultural
 
   B.   Subdistricts: A subdistrict of any district may be created within
planned unit development boundaries, provided a planned unit development permit
has been issued for said development pursuant to section
8-7-10 of this title. The subdistrict shall be designated by the suffix "PUD"
added to the symbol of the parent district.
   C.   Boundaries Established On Zoning Map: The boundaries of the districts
and subdistricts shall be shown on a "zoning map" as adopted by this title.
   D.   Changes In Boundaries: Changes in boundaries of districts or
subdistricts shall be made by ordinance which amends the provisions of this
title and amends the "zoning map". Such changes shall come only upon public
notice and hearing as defined by Idaho Code section 67-6509. (1990 Code §4-504)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. LAR LAKE AREA RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Description And Purpose
8-4A-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
8-4A-3: Special Uses Permitted
8-4A-4: Density Standards
8-4A-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of the LAR Lake Area Residential District is to create and preserve
single-family residences which reflect environmental qualities of intimacy,
cleanliness, and individuality as desirable attributes for family living. It is
also a purpose of the LAR District to encourage the development of summer and
vacation residences with ease of access to Winchester Lake. (Ord. 275, 4-2-
2015)
8-4A-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In the LAR District, the following buildings and uses are permitted, subject to
the provisions and regulations set forth in this article as well as the
regulations set forth in chapter 5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as, but not
limited to, private garages and storage buildings.
Home occupations. The occupation must not occupy over thirty percent (30%) of
the resident's building.
Single-family detached dwelling structures.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities; also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet of total floor area and
used solely for noncommercial purposes.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4A-3: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as special uses in the
LAR District:
Churches.
Library.
Nursery for flowers, plants or trees.
Nursery schools and daycare centers, provided there is established and
maintained in connection therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on the
premises with a minimum play area of four hundred (400) square feet for each
child.
Parks and playgrounds.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public utility and communication facilities.
Two (2) horses may be maintained when the facilities are approved by the City
Council and does not cause offensive odors or disturbances to people in the
neighborhood.
Other uses consistent with section 8-6-3 of this title, and the Comprehensive
Plan.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4A-4: DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum height of buildings: Forty feet (40').
   B.   Minimum lot area: Nine thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet.
   C.   Maximum percent of lot coverage: Forty percent (40%).
   D.   Minimum front yard depth: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
ARTICLE B. R1 SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4B-1: Description And Purpose
8-4B-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
8-4B-3: Special Uses Permitted
8-4B-4: Density Standards
8-4B-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The R1 Single- and Two-Family Residential District is intended for low density
residential use. A stable, healthful environment combined with the full range
of urban services is the goal of this district. Central water and sewer are
required. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4B-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In an R1 District, the following buildings and uses are permitted, subject to
general provisions and exceptions set forth in this article, and regulations
set forth in chapter 5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
   A.   Accessory buildings will not be located in any required front yard
area; and
   B.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   C.   If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
   A.   Tongue: The tongue of all mobile homes shall be removed or camouflaged
to the extent that it is exposed.
   B.   Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a
foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications
of the manufacturer.
   C.   Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is
flush to ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is
similar material, color and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured
home.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off street parking.
Keeping of one cow or equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square
feet (keeping of pigs, goats, and sheep will not be permitted in this
district), additionally, permitted will be the raising of up to twenty five
(25) poultry, fowl or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms are
to be permitted per dwelling.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities: Also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes).
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4B-3: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as special uses in
residential areas:
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities (9 or more residents).
   A.   Site development shall include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading and other services.
   B.   Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet for each bed in the facility (or the ratio required by the State of
Idaho, whichever is greater).
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
   D.   Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purposes shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private and parochial schools, provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary students.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or other similar facility.
Other uses consistent with section 8-6-3 of this title, and the Comprehensive
Plan. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4B-4: DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum height of buildings: Two (2) story, but not over thirty five
feet (35').
   B.   Minimum lot area: Seven thousand (7,000) square feet for single
detached dwelling, plus three thousand (3,000) square feet for each additional
dwelling unit.
   C.   Minimum lot depth: One hundred forty feet (140').
   D.   Minimum lot width: Fifty feet (50').
   E.   Maximum percent of lot coverage: Forty percent (40%).
   F.   Minimum front yard depth: Twenty feet (20').
   G.   Minimum side yard width: Five feet (5'), provided the eaves of the roof
do not extend more than two feet (2') past the edge of the building.
   H.   Minimum side yard width along the street side of corner lot: Ten feet
(10').
   I.   Minimum rear yard required: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
ARTICLE C. R2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4C-1: Description And Purpose
8-4C-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
8-4C-3: Special Uses Permitted
8-4C-4: Density Standards
8-4C-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The R2 Multiple-Family Residential District is designed to provide sites for
multiple-family dwelling structures, and related uses, which will generally
serve as zones of transition between the nonresidential districts and the lower
density district. The R2 District is provided to serve the limited need for
higher density residential buildings in an otherwise low density, single-family
community. Central water and sewer is required. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4C-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In an R2 District, the following uses are permitted, subject to the general
provisions set forth in this article, and the regulations set forth in chapter
5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
   A.   Accessory buildings will not be located in any required front yard
area; and
   B.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   C.   If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
   A.   Tongue: The tongue of all mobile homes shall be removed or camouflaged
to the extent that it is exposed.
   B.   Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a
foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications
of the manufacturer.
   C.   Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is
flush to ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is
similar material, color and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured
home.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off street parking.
Keeping of one cow or equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square
feet (keeping of pigs, goats, and sheep will not be permitted in this
district). Additionally permitted will be the raising of up to twenty five (25)
poultry, fowl or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
Multiple dwelling structures or groups of structures, including triplex and
four-plex dwelling structures and multiple apartments in which units are rented
on a permanent basis. Exception: Not including motel or other facilities
offered on a transient tenancy basis.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms are
to be permitted per dwelling.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities; also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4C-3: SPECIAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as special uses in
residential areas:
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities (9 or more residents).
   A.   Site development shall include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading and other services.
   B.   Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet for each bed in the facility (or ratio required by Idaho Code,
whichever is more restrictive).
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
   D.   Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purposes shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private and parochial schools, provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary students.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or other similar facility.
Other uses consistent with section
8-6-3 of this title, and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4C-4: DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum height of buildings: Not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Minimum lot area: Five thousand six hundred (5,600) square feet per
family dwelling unit for the first four (4) dwelling units; for additional
dwelling units, two thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
   C.   Minimum lot depth: One hundred forty feet (140').
   D.   Minimum lot width: Forty feet (40') from a single-family, detached or
two-family attached dwelling; one hundred feet (100') for a triplex or larger
unit.
   E.   Maximum percent of lot coverage: Fifty percent (50%).
   F.   Minimum front yard depth: Twenty feet (20').
   G.   Minimum side yard width: Five feet (5'), provided the eaves of the roof
do not extend more than two feet (2') past the edge of the building.
   H.   Minimum side yard width along the street side of corner lot: Ten feet
(10').
   I.   Minimum rear yard: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
ARTICLE D. C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4D-1: Description And Purpose
8-4D-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
8-4D-3: Special Uses
8-4D-4: Prohibited Uses
8-4D-5: Density Standards
8-4D-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C Commercial District is to permit the establishment of
business uses which meet the daily needs of the residents as well as to
encourage the renewal of the historical business area of the community. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
8-4D-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
In the Commercial Zone, the following buildings and uses are permitted, subject
to general provisions and exceptions set forth in this article and regulations
set forth in chapter 5 of this title:
All retail and customer services unless allowed only on condition under section
8-4D-3 of this article or prohibited under section
8-4D-4 of this article.
Establishment of a residence in conjunction with an approved use under
commercial zoning regulations. The frontage of the building must be the
business store front. The residence must be in the same building and can be no
more than fifty percent (50%) of the building. Accessory buildings in the rear
will be permissible. This amendment is meant to establish a residential use in
the Commercial Zone and still maintain the integrity of the Commercial District
of the City.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4D-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as special uses:
Auction shop, merchandise liquidation, surplus or salvage outlet or store,
secondhand or closeout, or similar business.
Bus transportation terminal.
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
Gasoline service station.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities (9 or more residents).
   A.   Site development shall include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading, and other services.
   B.   Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet for each bed in the facility (or ratio required by Idaho Code,
whichever is more restrictive).
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
   D.   Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Mortuary.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purpose shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private and parochial schools, provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary school students.
RV parks: Must comply with
title 7, chapter 6 of this Code and subsection
8-5-3C of this title, as amended.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or other similar facility.
Other uses consistent with chapter 6 of this title, and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4D-4: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited in commercial areas:
Any use which may be determined by the Council, after notice and a hearing as
defined in section 8-6-5 of this title, to be obnoxious, offensive, or have a
detrimental effect on retail trade or on the premises adjacent to such use.
Industrial uses that are not enclosed in a building.
Junkyard and automobile wrecking establishments.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4D-5: DENSITY STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be required in commercial districts:
   A.   Yard Requirements: None.
   B.   Loading Area: At least one loading space on the same lot. Space shall
include adequate area for standing, loading and unloading services in order to
avoid interference with the public use of streets and alleys.
   C.   Off Street Parking: One parking space for every four (4) employees.
   D.   Outdoor Storage: Storage area shall be at least gravel covered. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
ARTICLE E. MP MULTIPURPOSE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4E-1: Description And Purpose
8-4E-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
8-4E-3: Special Uses
8-4E-4: Prohibited Uses
8-4E-5: Density Standards
8-4E-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of the MP Multipurpose District is to provide for orderly growth
within the City, to provide a Multipurpose Zone wherein both residential (R-2)
and commercial uses will be permitted. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4E-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
   A.   Accessory buildings will not be located in any required front yard
area; and
   B.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   C.   If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
   A.   Tongue:The tongue of all mobile homes shall be removed or camouflaged
to the extent that it is exposed.
   B.   Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a
foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications
of the manufacturer.
   C.   Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is
flush to ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is of
similar material, color and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured
home.
Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off street parking.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities.
   A.   Site development shall include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading, and other services.
   B.   Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet for each bed in the facility (or ratio required by Idaho Code,
whichever is more restrictive).
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
   D.   Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Keeping of one cow or equine per fourteen thousand two hundred (14,200) square
feet (keeping of pigs, goats and sheep will not be permitted in this district).
Additionally permitted will be the raising of up to twenty five (25) poultry,
fowl or rabbits for noncommercial purposes.
Multiple dwelling structures or groups of structures, including triplex and
four-plex dwelling structures and multiple apartments in which units are rented
on a permanent basis. Exception: Not including motel or other facilities
offered on a transient tenancy basis.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purpose shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private and parochial schools, provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary school students.
RV parks: Must comply with
title 7, chapter 6 of this Code and subsection
8-5-3C of this title, as amended.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or other similar facility.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms
shall be permitted per dwelling.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities. Also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwellings (duplexes).
Other uses consistent with section 8-6-3 of this title, and the Comprehensive
Plan.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4E-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as special uses:
Auction shop, merchandise liquidation, surplus or salvage outlet or store,
secondhand or closeout, or similar business.
Bus transportation terminal.
Gasoline service station.
Mortuary.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4E-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Any use which may be determined by the Council, after notice and a hearing as
defined in section 8-6-5 of this title, to be obnoxious, offensive, or have a
detrimental effect on retail trade or on the premises adjacent uses.
Industrial uses that are not enclosed in a building.
Junkyard and automobile wrecking establishments.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4E-5: DENSITY STANDARDS:
The density standards would be applicable to the intended use of the lots,
whether it shall be used as residential or commercial.
   A.   Density Standards For R2 Zone:
      1.   Maximum height of buildings: Not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Minimum lot area: Five thousand six hundred (5,600) square feet per
family dwelling unit for the first four (4) dwelling units; for additional
dwelling units, two thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
      3.   Minimum lot depth: One hundred forty feet (140').
      4.   Minimum lot width: Forty feet (40') from a single-family, detached
or two-family attached dwelling; one hundred feet (100') for a triplex or
larger unit.
      5.   Maximum percent of lot coverage: Fifty percent (50%).
      6.   Minimum front yard depth: Twenty feet (20').
      7.   Minimum side yard width: Five feet (5'), provided the eaves of the
roof do not extend more than two feet (2') past the edge of the building.
      8.   Minimum side yard width along the street side of corner lot: Ten
feet (10').
      9.   Minimum rear yard requirement: Ten feet (10').
   B.   Density Standards For C Commercial Zone: The following standards shall
be required in commercial districts:
      1.   Yard Requirements: None.
      2.   Loading Area: At least one loading space on the same lot. Space
shall include adequate area for standing, loading and unloading services in
order to avoid interference with the public use of streets and alleys.
      3.   Off Street Parking: One parking space for every four (4) employees.
      4.   Outdoor Storage: Storage area shall be at least gravel covered.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
ARTICLE F. I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4F-1: Description And Purpose
8-4F-2: Permitted Buildings And Uses
8-4F-3: Special Uses
8-4F-4: Standards
8-4F-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of the I Industrial District is to provide areas suitable for
manufacturing and industrial uses. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4F-2: PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES:
The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the provisions and exceptions
set forth in this article and the regulations set forth in chapter 5 of this
title:
Any permitted use in a commercial district:
   A.   All retail and customer services, unless allowed only on a condition
under section
8-4F-3 of this article or prohibited under section
8-4D-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The reestablishment of residential dwelling units and their accessory
buildings existing on the effective date hereof in the case of such buildings
destroyed by fire or natural disaster.
Automotive sales, service, storage or rental.
Beverage bottling plant.
Bus terminal.
Cabinet shop.
Clay products and manufacturing.
Equipment rental and sales.
Furniture refinishing.
Government facilities.
Ice manufacturer - cold storage plant.
Laundry.
Lumberyard - building materials outlet.
Machine shop.
Preparation of food or drink on the premises or elsewhere.
Sign shop.
Tire sales and service (including recapping).
Trailer, mobile home, or farm implement sales and services.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4F-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council as a special use,
subject to the provisions of this article and of chapter 5 of this title:
Auction shop, merchandise liquidation, surplus or salvage outlet or store,
secondhand or closeout, or similar business.
Bus transportation terminal.
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Franchised and public utility and communication facility.
Gasoline service station.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities.
   A.   Site development shall include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading, and other services.
   B.   Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet for each bed in the facility (or ratio required by Idaho Code,
whichever is more restrictive).
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
   D.   Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Mortuary.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purpose shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private, and parochial schools, provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary school students.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or other similar facility.
Other uses consistent with chapter 6 of this title, and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4F-4: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be required in industrial districts.
   A.   Yard Requirements: None.
   B.   Loading Area: At least one loading space is required - this shall
include adequate area for standing, loading, and unloading services in order to
avoid interference with public use of streets and alleys.
   C.   Off-Street Parking: One parking place for each two (2) employees. For
uses devoted to on-premises sales, one parking space for each seventy five (75)
square feet of floor area devoted to sales.
   D.   Outdoor Storage: Storage area shall be at least gravel covered. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
ARTICLE G. A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4G-1: Description And Purpose
8-4G-2: Permitted Uses And Buildings
8-4G-3: Special Uses
8-4G-4: Density Standards
8-4G-1: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE:
The A Agricultural District is designed to create a semi-rural environment with
which certain limited agricultural pursuits are carried on in conjunction with
or in proximity to residential and commercial areas. The City's intent is to
maximize open space while providing a transitional area between the City and
the County.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4G-2: PERMITTED USES AND BUILDINGS:
In the A Agricultural District, the following buildings and uses are permitted,
subject to the provisions of this article and chapter 5 of this title:
Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use, such as private
garages or parking areas for noncommercial vehicles.
   A.   Accessory buildings will not be located in any required front yard
area; and
   B.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   C.   If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an accessory
building may be located on the property line next to the alley; provided, that
no part of the building extends beyond the property line.
Class A or Class B mobile/manufactured homes. The following conditions must be
met:
   A.   Tongue: The tongue of all mobile/manufactured homes shall be removed.
   B.   Foundations: All mobile/manufactured homes shall be placed on a
foundation constructed in accordance with the minimal accepted specifications
of the manufacturer.
   C.   Skirting: Except where the base of the mobile/manufactured home is
flush to the ground level, each home shall install skirting material which is
of similar material, color and pattern as the siding of the mobile/manufactured
home.
Hatching and raising of poultry and fowl, and the raising of rabbits.
Home occupations. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence, the occupation must not
occupy over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building and have adequate
off street parking.
One-family detached dwelling structures.
Orchards, tree crops, flower gardening, berry and bush crops, truck crops and
nurseries for raising and sale confined to plant material; similar enterprises
carried on in horticulture.
Raising of domestic animals.
Renting of rooms for lodging purposes only and not more than two (2) rooms
shall be permitted per dwelling.
Stables and kennels.
Subsistence or hobby-type gardening and horticultural activities. Also related
structures of less than three hundred (300) square feet total area and used
solely for noncommercial purposes.
Two-family attached dwelling (duplexes).
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-4G-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be authorized by the City Council:
Auction shop, merchandise liquidation, surplus or salvage outlet or store,
secondhand or closeout or similar business.
Bus transportation terminal.
Churches and other religious or charitable organizations.
Franchised and public utility and communication facilities.
Gasoline service station.
Hospitals, rest, convalescent, retirement homes, residential care or assisted
living facilities.
   A.   Site development shall include adequate off street parking for
visitors, employees, loading and other services.
   B.   Open space shall be provided which creates a ratio of one hundred (100)
square feet per each bed in the facility (or ratio required by Idaho Code,
whichever is more restrictive).
   C.   No building shall be closer than forty feet (40') from any property
line.
   D.   Area must be obscured from residential view with a wall or comparable
shrubbery six feet (6') in height.
Nursery schools, daycare centers, private kindergartens, orphanages, or similar
facilities, provided there is established and maintained in connection
therewith a fenced yard and screened play lot on or adjoining the premises.
Parks and playgrounds.
Private clubs or lodges and community assembly halls; provided, that any
building used for such purpose shall be at least fifty feet (50') from an
adjoining residentially zoned lot.
Professional offices to the extent of one professional person per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
Public and governmental buildings serving as administrative offices.
Public, private and parochial schools, provided play fields (exclusive of the
building site) are provided at a minimum of one acre per one hundred (100)
elementary school students.
Railroad right-of-way, but no yard or similar facility.
Swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreation facilities. (Ord. 275, 4-
2-2015)
8-4G-4: DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum height of buildings: Forty feet (40').
   B.   Minimum lot area: Nine thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet.
   C.   Maximum percent of lot coverage: Forty percent (40%).
   D.   Minimum front yard depth: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 5
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Environmental Safeguards
8-5-3: General Provisions
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for
areas where problems are frequently encountered.
   B.   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any
manner creating dangerous, noxious, or otherwise objectionable conditions which
could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining properties. However,
any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable
measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and objectionable conditions to
acceptable levels are established by the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
8-5-2: ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS:
The following standards shall be met within the City limits and the Area of
City Impact: (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of such material. Such activities shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified by the International Fire Code. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018
Code)
   B.   Radioactivity And Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit
harmful radioactivity adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at any
point other than that of the creation of the disturbance.
   C.   Noise: No use shall generate objectionable noise which is due to volume
or frequency. Air raid sirens and related apparatus used solely for public
purposes are exempt.
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments beyond the property lines of the lot upon which the use is located.
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare.
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible
outside of a commercial or industrial district.
   G.   Erosion: No erosion by man, wind or water shall be permitted which will
carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the Environmental Protection Agency and the
Idaho Department of Health and Welfare.
   I.   Measurement Procedures: Methods for determination of the existence of
any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to applicable standard
procedures published by the American Standards Institute, New York, the
Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington, D.C.; the U.S. Bureau of
Mines; and the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   J.   Enforcement: Prior to the issuance of a permit, the City Council may
require the submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in which
objectionable elements are to be eliminated, reduced to acceptable limits, or
found to exist. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-5-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: Residences may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The yard dimensions still meet the standard dimensions required by
the zoning regulations for new structures in that district.
      2.   The lot area per family equals the lot area requirement for new
structures in that district.
      3.   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district.
      4.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes,
ordinances, and the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   B.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work only may be
permitted in any district during the period construction work is in progress,
but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. Storage of such facilities or equipment beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a zoning permit authorized by the
City Council. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed
buildings or carports. However, one boat and one travel trailer may be stored
in the side or rear yard. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   D.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial, and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage as
determined by the City Council shall be provided. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd.
2018 Code)
   E.   Development Close To Airport: The location, building height, and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Aeronautics and Public Transportation, and the Federal Aviation
Administration.
   F.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard.
      2.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
      3.   If any alley is at least ten feet (10') wide, the edge of an
accessory building may not be located on the property line next to the alley;
provided, that no part of the building extends beyond the property line. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Consideration Of Special Uses; Public Hearing
8-6-2: Contents Of Application For Special Use Permit
8-6-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
8-6-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-6-5: Hearing Notice Procedure
8-6-6: Action By City Council
8-6-7: Notification Of Applicant
8-6-1: CONSIDERATION OF SPECIAL USES; PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are
appearing, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses possess
characteristics of such a unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, method of operation, circulation, and public utilities that each
specific use must be considered individually. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   B.   The City Council shall hold a public hearing on each special use permit
application as specified in section
8-6-5 of this chapter. The City Council may approve, conditionally approve or
deny a special use permit under the conditions as hereon specified and
considering such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-6-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
An application for a special use permit shall be filed in duplicate with the
City Clerk-Treasurer by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such
special use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zoning district.
   E.   Description of proposed special use. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use, showing the location
of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the City Council may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to
the comprehensive plan.
   H.   An environmental evaluation checklist as supplied by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-6-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The City Council shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use, at the proposed location: (Ord. 275,
4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established on the official
schedule of district regulations for the zoning district involved.
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and this title.
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained in a manner
harmonious and appropriate with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the area.
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services.
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment, and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare, or odors.
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed
as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares.
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-6-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the City Council may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds, and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
8-6-5: HEARING NOTICE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place
and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or
paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall also be
provided to property owners and residents within the land being considered,
three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being
considered, and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the
proposed special use as determined by the City Council. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015;
amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or
residents, in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the
official newspaper is sufficient; provided, however, the third notice shall
appear ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-6-6: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the City Council
shall either approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the application. If
the application is approved or approved with modifications, the Council shall
issue a special use permit listing the conditions specified by the Council for
approval. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a
special use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public facilities or
services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   C.   Prior to recommending of approval of a special use permit, the City
Council may request studies concerning social, economic, fiscal, and
environmental effects of the proposed special use. A special use permit shall
not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other special
use permits. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   A use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   E.   Upon recommending that an application be granted or denied, the City
Council shall specify in a written report: (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-6-7: NOTIFICATION OF APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: Provisions Governing PUD
8-7-3: Uses Permitted
8-7-4: Ownership Requirements
8-7-5: Common Open Space
8-7-6: Utility Requirements
8-7-7: Increased Residential Density
8-7-8: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
8-7-9: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
8-7-10: Procedure For Approval Of PUD
8-7-11: Preapplication Meeting
8-7-12: Application For Approval Of Preliminary Development Plan
8-7-13: Public Notice Procedure
8-7-14: Approval In Principle By Council
8-7-15: Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
8-7-16: Action By City Council
8-7-17: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land and construction by
encouraging planned unit developments (PUDs) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks, and area requirements.
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas, and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses, and services.
   C.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns.
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets.
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 275, 4-2-
2015)
8-7-2: PROVISIONS GOVERNING PUD:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-
2015)
8-7-3: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public, and quasipublic uses that are not allowed
within the land use district; provided, there is favorable finding by the City
Council that: (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   The uses are appropriate with the residential uses.
   B.   The uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the PUD.
   C.   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD.
   D.   The uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to a
collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic hazards.
   E.   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development occur
prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land uses.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-4: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property owner
or a person having an existing interest in the property to be included in the
PUD. The PUD application shall be filed in the name or names of the recorded
owner or owners of property included in the development. However, the
application may be filed by the holder of an equitable interest in such
property.
   B.   Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire
project shall be under single ownership or control and legal title must be
presented with the final development plan. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-5: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   B.   The required amount of common open space land reserved under a PUD
shall either be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for
the use of each owner who buys property within the development or be dedicated
to the public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation, and
related uses. Public utility and similar easements and rights- of-way for
watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open
space dedication unless such land or right-of-way is usable as a trail or other
similar purpose and approved by the City Council. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd.
2018 Code)
   C.   The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces shall be
specified by the developer before approval of the final development plan.
   D.   Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designed to
abut upon common open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-6: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which can be
effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement if the City Council
finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-7-7: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the City Council may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity, architectural, and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these factors make a substantial contribution to the
objectives of the PUD, which are as follows: (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018
Code)
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas; use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and
recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun, and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks, and
building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features, and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-8: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings, and
establishments, they shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to reduce the number of potential
accident locations at intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be
provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
   B.   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious
design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, landscaping, and such other features and
facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient
from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
   C.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-9: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the
development results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
   B.   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park-like
surroundings utilizing landscaping and natural conditions as buffers to screen
lighting, parking areas, loading areas, or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw
materials or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony
of buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of
such utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
   C.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right-of-way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas, and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly
maintained at all times. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-10: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PUD:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for a PUD shall require a preapplication, the
submission of a preliminary development plan, and approval by the City Council
of a final development plan as specified within this title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-
2015)
8-7-11: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the City Clerk-Treasurer prior to the submission
of the preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss
early and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, and such other
plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-12: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   An application for preliminary PUD shall be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer by a property owner or person having existing interest in the
property for which the PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information filed in triplicate:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Name, address, and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan.
      3.   Legal description of property.
      4.   Description of existing use.
      5.   Zoning districts. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
      6.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the City Council, showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the City Council may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the
comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and
services.
      7.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the City
Council showing topography at two foot (2') intervals; location and type of
residential, commercial, and industrial land uses; layout, dimensions, and
names of existing and proposed streets, rights-of-way, utility easements,
parks, and community spaces; layout and dimensions of lots and building setback
lines, preliminary improvement drawings showing water, sewer, drainage,
electricity, telephone, and natural gas and such other characteristics as the
City Council deems necessary. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
      8.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site.
      9.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
      10.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property;
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to
the comprehensive plan.
      11.   An environmental checklist supplied by the City Clerk- Treasurer.
   B.   The application for preliminary PUD shall be accompanied by a written
statement by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his opinion, the
PUD would be in the public interest.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-13: PUBLIC NOTICE PROCEDURE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notification as required for
special use permits shall be followed (see section
8-6-5 of this title). (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-14: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY COUNCIL:
   A.   Within ten (10) days after the public hearing, the City Council shall
review the preliminary development plan to determine if it is consistent with
the intent and purpose of this title; whether the proposed development advances
the general welfare of the community and neighborhood and whether the benefits,
combination of various land uses and the interrelationship with the land uses
in the surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district
regulations. The City Council's approval in principle of the preliminary
development plan shall be necessary before an applicant may submit a final
development plan. Approval in principle shall not be construed to endorse a
precise location of uses, configuration, or parcels of engineering feasibility.
   B.   The City Council shall consider the general standards applicable to
special use permits and criteria for special uses before approving in principle
a preliminary development plan (see section
8-6-3 of this title).
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-7-15: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of a preliminary development plan, an application
for approval of the final development plan may be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer by at least one property owner or person having a presently existing
interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. Each application shall
be signed by the owner or lessee, attesting to the truth and exactness of all
information supplied on the application for final development plan. Each
application shall clearly state that the approval shall expire and may be
revoked if construction on the project has not begun within two (2) years from
the date of issuance of the approval. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions and
bearings of the property lines, areas in acres, topography, existing features
of the development site; including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines, and land uses.
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan, the
location and sizes of lots, location, and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity, and land use considered suitable for
adjacent properties.
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes, tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses, the number of housing units proposed by type, estimated
residential population density and public improvements proposed for each unit
of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from standard
zoning districts or other ordinances governing development.
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing, as necessary, water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone, and natural gas installations, waste
disposal facilities; street improvements and nature and extent of earth work
required for site preparation and development.
   E.   Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation, and their relationship.
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations.
   G.   Landscaping plans.
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants, and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development, and maintenance of the
land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be
commonly owned and maintained. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-16: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days the City Council shall either approve, approve
with supplementary conditions, or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application, the City Council shall specify in a
written report: (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   B.   If the application is either approved or approved with conditions, the
City Council shall direct the City Clerk- Treasurer to issue building permits
only in accordance with the approved final development plan and the
supplementary conditions attached thereto. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-7-17: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approved final
development plan shall be void. An extension of the time limit or modification
of the approved final development plan may be approved if the Council finds
that such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public
interest.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Intent
8-8-2: Incompatibility Of Nonconforming Uses
8-8-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
8-8-4: Single Nonconforming Lots
8-8-5: Nonconforming Lots In Combination
8-8-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Structures And Land In Combination
8-8-7: Repairs And Maintenance
8-8-8: Uses Under Special Use Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
8-8-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-8-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the district in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after adoption of this title by attachment on a
building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the
premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally
prohibited in the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-8-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction has been
carried on diligently. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-8-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this title. Such lot must be in
separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same
ownership (see section
8-8-5 of this chapter). This provision shall apply even though such lot fails
to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district; provided, that yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. (Ord. 275, 4-
2-2015)
8-8-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this title and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this title
and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
title nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a
width or area below the requirements stated in this title.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-8-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title,
the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   B.   No nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy any additional land
area. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land may, upon the issuance of a special use permit
by the City Council, be changed to another nonconforming use; provided, that
the City Council shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or
more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In
permitting such change, the City Council may require appropriate conditions and
safeguards in accord with other provisions of this title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015;
amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than two (2) years (except
when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or
structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-8-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing; provided, that
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-8-8: USES UNDER SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall,
without further action, be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 9
APPEALS, VARIANCES AND ACTION BY AFFECTED PERSONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Administrative Appeals
8-9-2: Stay Of Proceedings
8-9-3: Variances
8-9-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-9-5: Public Hearing
8-9-6: Action By City Council
8-9-7: Notification To Applicant
8-9-8: Request For Hearing By Affected Persons
8-9-1: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Appeals to the City Council concerning interpretation or administration of this
title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the
legislature authority affected by any decision of the building inspector. Such
appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days after the decision of the
building inspector by filing with the building inspector and/or with the City
Council a notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is
being taken. The building inspector shall transmit to the City Council all the
papers constituting the record upon which the appeal is based. (Ord. 275, 4-2-
2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-9-2: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action taken unless the
building inspector certifies to the City Council after the notice of appeal is
filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would,
in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the Council or by a court based upon an application, with notice to
the building inspector showing due cause. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-9-3: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authorization: The City Council may authorize in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming
use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same district and no
permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures, or buildings in other
districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances
shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where
strict application of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances shall be consistent with the comprehensive plan and in the
public interest.
   B.   Application And Standards:
      1.   A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the
City Council unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted
to the City Clerk- Treasurer containing:
         a.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant(s).
         b.   Legal description of property.
         c.   Description of nature of variance requested.
         d.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
            (1)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
            (2)   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this title.
            (3)   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant.
            (4)   That the requested use, if established, will not be of a
general classification different from the district in which the land or
structure is located.
            (5)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
            (6)   That granting the variance is not contrary to public interest
or the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
      2.   A variance shall not be granted unless the City Council makes
specific written findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence
presented to it which support conclusions that the above mentioned standards
and conditions have been met by the applicant.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-9-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the Council grant any appeal or variance to allow
a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved,
or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in
said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the City Council may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
this title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-9-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for appeal or variance, the City Council shall
hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give written notice to
all adjoining property owners as defined in section 8-6-5 of this title.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-9-6: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Within ten (10) days after the public hearing, the City Council may
either approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the request for appeal or
variance. The Council shall then act upon this at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Upon granting or denying an application, the Council shall specify in
written form:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-9-7: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the
request. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-9-8: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSONS:
   A.   An affected person shall mean one having an interest in real property
which may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit
authorizing the development or use.
   B.   Any affected person may at any time prior to final action on rezone,
special use, or variance permit, if no hearing has been held on the
application, petition the Council in writing to hold a hearing as required in
chapter 6 of this title; provided, however, that if twenty (20) affected
persons petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held.
   C.   After a hearing, the City Council may:
      1.   Grant or deny a permit; or
      2.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further
study or hearing.
   D.   An affected person aggrieved by a decision may, within sixty (60) days
after all remedies have been exhausted under local ordinances, seek judicial
review under the procedures provided by Idaho Code section 67-5270.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 10
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Authority
8-10-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
8-10-3: Contents Of Application
8-10-4: Transmittal To City Council
8-10-5: Public Hearing; Action By City Council
8-10-6: Resubmission Of Application
8-10-7: Zoning Upon Annexation
8-10-1: AUTHORITY:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, the City Council may, by ordinance amend, supplement,
change, or repeal the regulations, restrictions, and boundaries or
classification of property. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-10-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the City Council; and
   B.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-10-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the Council.
   C.   Present land use.
   D.   Present zoning district.
   E.   Proposed use.
   F.   Proposed zoning district.
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the City Clerk- Treasurer showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning, and such other
items as the City Clerk- Treasurer may require.
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered.
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities, and compatibility with the surrounding
area. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-10-4: TRANSMITTAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to
the City Council which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested.
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the City Council may adopt or reject the ordinance amendment under the notice
and hearing procedures as herein provided.
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the City Council may adopt or reject an amendment to the comprehensive
plan under the notice and hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code section 67-
6509. After the comprehensive plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may
then be amended as hereinafter provided for.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-10-5: PUBLIC HEARING; ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   The City Council, prior to adopting, revising, or rejecting an
amendment to the zoning ordinance, shall conduct at least one public hearing
per Idaho Code section 67-6509 hearing requirements.
   B.   The Council shall accept the amendment unless rejected by a vote of
one-half (1/2) plus one of the members. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning ordinance,
the City Council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   D.   In the event the City Council shall approve an amendment, such
amendment shall thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation
and passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-10-6: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the City Council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or
with reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within
a period of one year from the date of such final action; unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-10-7: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the Council shall request and
receive any proposed comprehensive plan and/or zoning ordinance changes for the
unincorporated area. The City Council shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures provided in section
8-6-5 of this title. Concurrently or immediately following the adoption of an
ordinance for annexation, the Council shall amend the comprehensive plan and
zoning ordinance accordingly.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Permits Required
8-11-2: Contents Of Application
8-11-3: Approval Or Disapproval Procedure
8-11-4: Expiration Of Permit
8-11-5: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-11-6: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy
8-11-7: Record Of Permits And Certificates
8-11-8: Failure To Obtain Permit Or Certificate
8-11-9: Construction And Use Restrictions
8-11-10: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
8-11-11: Complaints Regarding Violations
8-11-12: Penalties
8-11-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
structurally altered without first obtaining a building permit (as defined in
the International Building Code,
title 7, chapter 3 of this Code). No land shall be established or changed in
use without first obtaining a certificate of compliance. Permits and
certificates shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions of this
title.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-11-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Every application must be filed in duplicate on a form provided by the City
Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Existing use.
   D.   Proposed use.
   E.   Zoning district.
   F.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alteration.
   G.   Building heights.
   H.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading berths.
   I.   Number of dwelling units.
   J.   Proposed sewer and water facilities.
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provide for the enforcement of, this title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
   L.   On projects that the City Council deems environmentally significant,
the applicant shall also complete an environmental checklist, supplied by the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-11-3: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL PROCEDURE:
All applications for a building permit and/or certificate of compliance shall
be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. Application is reviewed from compliance
by City staff and the building inspector. If paid in full and in compliance a
permit is issued. One copy of the application with the plans shall be returned
to the applicant marked either approved or disapproved. One copy of the same,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the City Clerk-Treasurer. (Ord. 275, 4-
2-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
8-11-4: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   If the work for which a permit has been issued is not commenced within
three (3) months after the date of issuance or such longer period as the
building inspector may authorize in writing because of the occurrence of
conditions unforeseen at the time of the issuance, such permits shall expire. A
new permit shall be obtained before such work is completed.
   B.   If the work for which a permit was issued is not completed within one
year from the date of issuance of the permit or such longer period as the
building inspector shall authorize in writing, said permit shall expire. No
further work shall be undertaken until a new building permit has been obtained.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-5: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or wholly or partially altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a Certificate of Occupancy shall have been issued therefor by
the building inspector or the City Clerk- Treasurer stating that the proposed
use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this title and with
all conditional provisions that may have been imposed. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-6: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A temporary Certificate of Occupancy may be issued by the building inspector or
the City Clerk-Treasurer for a period not exceeding six (6) months during
alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion. (Ord.
275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-7: RECORD OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of all permits and
certificates of occupancy and copies shall be furnished upon request and
payment of duplication in cost to any person. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-8: FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE:
Failure to obtain a permit or Certificate of Occupancy shall be a violation of
this title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-9: CONSTRUCTION AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
Permits or Certificates of Occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the City Council authorize only the use and
arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-10: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for permits, amendments, appeals,
variances, special use permits, plan approvals, and other matters pertaining to
the administration and enforcement of this title requiring investigations,
inspections, legal advertising, postage, and other expenses.
   B.   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the Office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer and may be altered or amended only by the City Council.
   C.   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full,
no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-11: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-
Treasurer and building inspector shall properly record such complaint,
immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by this title.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
8-11-12: PENALTIES:
The City Attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed
necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title. Penalties
for failure to comply with or violations of the provisions of this title shall
be as follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official, or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or
any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of the Idaho
Code.
(Ord. 275, 4-2-2015)
CHAPTER 12
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Title; Purpose; Compliance
8-12-2: Definitions
8-12-3: Administration
8-12-4: Preapplication Conference And Concept Plan
8-12-5: Development Master Plan
8-12-6: Preliminary Plat
8-12-7: Final Plat
8-12-8: Administrative Plats
8-12-9: Subdivision Design Principles And Standards
8-12-10: Street And Utility Improvement Requirements
8-12-11: Guarantee Of Construction
8-12-12: Variances
8-12-13: Prohibition Against Circumvention Of Chapter
8-12-14: Violations, Penalties, And Remedies
8-12-15: Validity Of The Chapter
8-12-1: TITLE; PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City
of Winchester.”
   B.   The Purposes of this title are:
      1.   To implement the goals and purposes of the city of Winchester
comprehensive plan;
      2.   To provide for orderly harmonious development within the city
limits;
      3.   To provide standards for such development;
      4.   To ensure adequate access and traffic circulation through the
coordination of streets and roads within subdivisions, with relation to other
existing or planned streets and roads;
      5.   To ensure adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
      6.   To ensure adequate provisions for water supply, drainage, sanitary
sewerage and other health requirements.
      7.   To promote the conservation of land by encouraging its most
effective and economical use;
      8.   To facility the transfer of real property by accurate description;
       9.   To avoid scattered subdivision of land that would result in lack of
essential public services, or necessitate expenditure of public funds to supply
such services;
      10.   To provide logical procedures for the achieving of these purposes;
      11.   To otherwise promote the public health, safety and general welfare:
      12.   To ensure full consideration is given to the impact of the proposed
subdivision on adjacent uses and land uses in the vicinity of the proposed
subdivision.
   C.   Compliance with Idaho Code. If a piece of land is subdivided, all
subdividers of land located within the city of Winchester shall, prior to
recording of a plat, submit all plats to the city of Winchester for approval by
its city council in the manner provided by this chapter. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words, terms, and phrases are defined
as follows:
AFFECTED PERSON:                One having an interest in real property which may be affected by approval or
                                disapproval of a proposed subdivision or development.
                                The use of land primarily for the commercial production of plants, crops,
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES:          animals, or livestock useful to man, including the ancillary activities essential
                                to such production, and the preparation of the products for use.
ARCHITECT:                      An architect licensed to practice in the state of Idaho.
BLOCK:                          A piece or parcel of land or group of lots.
CITY ENGINEER:                  The city engineer of the city of Winchester being licensed to practice in the
                                state of Idaho.
CITY MASTER TRANSPORTATION      A part of the city comprehensive plan which provides for the development of a
PLAN:                           system of major streets and highways, including the location and alignment of
                                existing and proposed thoroughfares.
CITY SURVEYOR:                  The licensed land surveyor appointed or employed by the city.
                                The city of Winchester planning and zoning commission. (If the planning and
COMMISSION:                     zoning commission is not established the Winchester City Council will act in this
                                capacity).
                                A comprehensive plan, or part thereof, providing for the future growth and
                                improvement of the city of Winchester and for the general location and
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:             coordination of streets and highways, public utilities, schools and recreation
                                areas, public building sites, and other physical development, which shall have
                                been duly adopted by the city council.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:           An affirmative action by the council that approval will be forthcoming upon
                                satisfaction of certain specified stipulations.
                                Plans, profiles, cross-sections, specifications, estimates, reports and other
                                required details for the construction and acceptance of public improvements,
CONSTRUCTION PLANS:             prepared by an engineer and/or architect in accordance with the approved
                                preliminary plat and in compliance with existing standards of design and
                                construction approved by the council.
COUNCIL:                        The city council of the city of Winchester.
                                A preliminary master plan for the development of a land area, the platting of
DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN (DMP):  which is expected in progressive stages. A DMP, if required, shall assess the
                                feasibility of developing the land area and shall be designed by the subdivider
                                and shall be subject to approval of the subdivision committee.
DIRECT ACCESS:                  The access which serves as the principal access to the property and determines
                                the street address of the property.
EASEMENT:                       A grant by the owner of the use of a parcel of land by the public, corporation,
                                or persons for a specified use and purposes and so designated on a plat.
ENGINEER:                       A professional engineer licensed to practice in the state of Idaho.
EXCEPTION:                      Any parcel of land which is within the boundaries of the subdivision which is not
                                owned by the subdivider.
                                Unconditional approval of the final plat by the council, as evidenced by
FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:            certifications on the plat by the city attorney, city clerk, and city engineer,
                                constitutes authorization to record the plat.
IRRIGATION FACILITIES:          Includes canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates, pumps, and allied equipment
                                necessary for the supply, delivery, and drainage of irrigation water.
                                A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels by descriptions,
LOT:                            as in a subdivision or on a record survey map, or by metes and bounds, for
                                purposes of sale, or separate use.
                                A lot abutting on two (2) or more streets, other than an alley, at their
   Corner lot:               intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street forming an interior angle
                                of less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees. The front of a corner lot
                                shall be determined at the time of building permit application.
   Interior lot:             A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
   Reverse frontage lot:     A through lot for which the boundary abutting an arterial route or major street
                                is established as the rear lot line.
   Through (or double front) A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets or which fronts
lot:                            upon two (2) streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
                                The length of a line at right angles to the axis of the lot at a distance equal
LOT WIDTH:                      to the front setback required for the zone in which the lot is located. The axis
                                of a lot shall be a line joining the midpoints of the front and rear property
                                lines.
                                A plan designed by the subdivision committee to guide the platting of remaining
NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN:              vacant parcels in a partially built neighborhood so as to make reasonable use of
                                all land, correlate street patterns, and achieve the best possible land use
                                relationships.
OWNER:                          The person or persons holding title by deed to land, or holding title as vendees
                                under land contract, or holding any other title of record.
PEDESTRIAN WAY:                 A dedicated public walkway.
PLANNER:                        The community development director of the city of Lewiston.
PLAT:                           A map of a subdivision.
                                A plat of ten (10) or fewer lots, all of which are in conformance with the zoning
                                ordinance, all of which have direct access to an existing improved public street
   Administrative plat:      and not requiring any major improvement. The construction of curb, gutter and
                                sidewalk and street patchback needed for street widening shall not be considered
                                major improvements.
                                A map of all or part of a subdivision providing substantial conformance to an
   Final plat:               approved preliminary plat, prepared in accordance with section
                                8-12-7 of this chapter and Idaho Code, Sections 50-1301 through 50-1329.
                                A preliminary map, including supporting data, indicating a proposed subdivision
   Preliminary plat:         development, prepared in accordance with section
                                8-12-6 of this chapter and the Idaho Code,
                                A final plat or administrative plat bearing all of the certificates of approval
   Recorded plat:            required in this chapter and duly recorded in the Nez Perce County recorder’s
                                office.
PRIVATE STREET OR ROAD:         A road within a subdivision plat that is not dedicated to the public and not a
                                part of a public roadway system, meeting the design requirements for fire access.
                                A set of regulations setting forth the details, specifications, and instructions
                                to be followed in the planning, design, and construction of required public
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:   improvements in the city of Lewiston, formulated by the state department of
                                health and welfare, the North Central District Health Department, the city
                                engineer, and other city departments.
                                Any public way or other way which is an existing state, county, or municipal
                                roadway; or a street or roadway shown on a plat heretofore approved pursuant to
                                law or by official action; or a street or roadway, whether public or private; or
STREETS:                        a plat duly filed and recorded in the county recorder’s office. A street includes
                                the land between the right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may
                                comprise pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, and
                                lawns.
   Alley:                    A public service way used to provide secondary vehicular access to property
                                otherwise abutting upon a street.
   Arterial route:           A general term including freeways, expressways, and limited access streets; and
                                interstate, state or county highways having regional continuity.
                                Provides for traffic movement within neighborhoods of the city and between major
   Collector street:         streets and local streets and for direct access to abutting properties. (Also
                                called “secondary street.”)
   Improved public street:   A public street that has been paved with an all weather surface.
                                Provides for direct access to residential, commercial, industrial, or other
   Local street:             abutting land and for local traffic movements and connects to collector and/or
                                major streets. (Also called a “minor street.”)
      Cul-de-sac street:  A short local street having one end terminated in a vehicular turnaround.
      Dead-end street:    A short local street terminating at a property line, but capable of future
                                extension.
                                A minor street parallel and adjacent to an arterial route which provides access
      Marginal access streto abutting property and intercepts local streets and controls access to an
                                arterial route. (Also called “frontage road.”)
                                Provides for the general inter-neighborhood traffic circulation of the community,
   Minor arterial:           taking priority of movement over most intersecting streets, and minimizing direct
                                access to abutting properties.
                                A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm, corporation,
                                partnership, association, syndication, trust, or other legal entity that titles
SUBDIVIDER:                     the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in
                                accordance with the provisions of this chapter, The subdivider need not be the
                                owner of the property as defined by this chapter.
                                The division of a tract or parcel of land within the city or area of city impact
                                into two (2) or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land; except that:
                                (1)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining property
                                owners where such sale or exchange does not create additional lots shall not be
SUBDIVISION:                    deemed a subdivision.
                                (2)   The allocation of property by court decree in settling the estate of a
                                decedent or in partitioning land among owners shall not be deemed a subdivision.
                                (3)   The unwilling sale of land as the result of legal condemnation procedures,
                                or the acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in conformance with
                                the comprehensive plan, shall not be deemed a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE:          A committee established to review subdivision plats.
SURVEYOR:                       Professional land surveyor licensed to practice in the state of Idaho.
                                A parcel of land which appears on the records of the county as a single ownership
TRACT OR TRACT OF LAND:         as of August 23, 1971. Where two (2) or more parcels under the same ownership are
                                contiguous, they shall be regarded for purposes of this chapter as a single tract
                                except when no new lot lines are created for the purpose of sale.
                                That portion of a lot usable for or adaptable to the normal uses made of property
USABLE LOT AREA:                consistent with the established or proposed zoning classification, excluding any
                                areas which may be considered wetlands, are excessively steep, or are included in
                                certain types of easements.
                                Installations or facilities, underground or overhead, furnishing public utilities
                                including electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, solid waste
                                disposal, sewage disposal, or flood control. Said utilities may be owned and
UTILITIES:                      operated by any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or board duly
                                authorized by state or municipal regulations. Utility or utilities as used herein
                                may also refer to the operating persons, firms, corporations, departments, or
                                boards.
                                Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
                                frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances
WETLANDS:                       do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
                                soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar
                                areas. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
 
8-12-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Subdivision committee:
      1.   A subdivision committee is hereby established, to consist of the
following members or their duly authorized representatives:
         a.   The administrator of public works or appointed alternate(s);
         b.   Community development director or appointed alternate(s);
         c.   Fire chief or appointed alternate(s);
         d.   Superintendents of water, sewer and streets.
      2.   The subdivision committee shall examine all plats of proposed
subdivisions for compliance with applicable ordinances of the city of Lewiston.
The committee shall report its findings and recommendations through the
commission or council, meeting as often as necessary to report within the time
limits hereinafter prescribed.
   B.   Outline of procedures:
      1.   The preparation, submittal, review, and approval of all subdivision
plats of lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Lewiston shall proceed
through the progressive stages, as described in Articles V, VI and Vll of this
chapter.
      2.   The preparation, submittal, review, and approval of all
administrative plats shall proceed as described in Article Vlll of this
chapter.
   C.   Fees.
      1.   Fees for the processing of subdivision applications shall be
required prior to review of plats.
      2.   The fee shall be in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-4: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE AND CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the preapplication conference and concept
planning stage shall be to discuss the proposed subdivision concept, its
conformity with the comprehensive plan, its relationship to surrounding
development, any site conditions that may require special consideration or
treatment, and the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Preapplication. Preapplication conference:
      1.   The preapplication conference stage of subdivision planning
comprises an informational period which precedes actual preparation of
preliminary plans by the subdivider. During this stage, the subdivider makes
known his intentions to the city and is advised of specific public objectives
related to the subject tract, and other details regarding platting procedures
and requirements.
      2.   In carrying out the purposes of the preapplication stage, the
subdivider and the city shall be responsible for the following actions:
         a.   Actions by the subdivider. The subdivider and/or his agents shall
meet with the city at the preapplication conference to present a general
outline of the proposed development, which shall include, but is not limited
to:
            (1)   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangement, and tentative lot sizes.
            (2)   Tentative proposals regarding required public improvements.
            (3)   Impact statement on adjacent uses and land uses in the
vicinity of the, and impact on the local economy, schools, parks and other
community services.
            (4)   Other information needed to explain the development.
         b.   Actions by the city, The city will discuss the proposal with the
subdivider and advise him of procedural steps, design and improvement
standards, and general plat requirements. Then, depending upon the scope of the
proposed development, they will proceed with the following actions:
            (1)   Check existing zoning of the tract and make recommendations
if a zone change is necessary or desirable or if other zoning action is
necessary. If it is determined that zoning action is required or a permit is
required for the subject tract or any part of it, the subdivider shall initiate
the necessary rezoning or permit application.
            (2)   Check conformity with the objectives and policies of the
comprehensive plan and for conformity to the city’s master transportation plan.
            (3)   Inspect the site or otherwise determine its relationship to
streets, utility systems, and adjacent land uses, and identify any unusual
problems with regard to topography, utilities, flooding, or other conditions.
            (4)   Determine if there is a need for the preparation and review
of a development master plan before a preliminary plat can be considered. If
the development master plan is required, the subdivider will be advised of this
fact, and of the extent to which it should be prepared.
            (5)   Review and discuss with the developer the potential need for
special studies, which may include but are not limited to traffic, soil, slope
stability, wetlands, foundations or other studies that may be required as a
result of site conditions, and the implications of the findings of those
studies, if required. The requirement of said special studies shall be
determined by the city engineer.
            (6)   Advise the subdivider of the results of these actions, and
offer guidance as to any further actions which should be taken. (Ord. 298, 11-
8-2021)
8-12-5: DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Purpose. A development master plan may be required by the subdivision
committee whenever the tract is sufficiently large as to comprise a
neighborhood; the tract initially proposed for platting is only a portion of a
larger land area, the development of which is complicated by size,
transportation or access, unusual topographic, utility, land use, land
ownership, or other conditions. The entire land area need not be under the
subdivider’s control in this case.
   B.   Contents Of Plan - Preparation. The development master plan (DMP) shall
be prepared to a scale and accuracy commensurate with its purpose and shall
include:
      1.   General street pattern with particular attention to collection
streets and future circulation throughout the neighborhood and the goals and
objectives of the city’s master transportation plan.
      2.   General location and size of school sites, parks, or other proposed
land uses.
      3.   Location of shopping centers, multifamily residential, or other
proposed land uses.
      4.   Proposed improvements for sewage disposal, water supply, fire
protection and storm drainage.
   C.   Significance Of Development Master Plan Approval. Upon acceptance of
general design approach by the subdivision committee, the DMP shall be followed
by the preparation of preliminary plat(s). If development is to take place in
several parts, the DMP shall be submitted as supporting data for each part. The
DMP shall be kept up to date by the subdivider and the committee as
modifications take place. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to allow for the
detailed examination of the proposed subdivision, determine conformity to land
use and zoning ordinances and applicable state laws and to determine and apply
appropriate development standards in conformance with this code.
   B.   Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat stage of land subdivision
includes detailed subdivision planning, submittal, review, and approval of the
preliminary plat. To avoid delay in processing the application, the subdivider
shall provide the city with all information described in this article that is
essential to determine the character and general acceptability of the proposed
development.
   C.   Conformance With Zoning Requirements. The subdivision shall be designed
to meet the specific requirements for the zoning district within which it is
located. In the event that an amendment or variance of zoning is necessary,
said action shall be initiated by the property owner or his authorized agent.
Processing of the preliminary plat shall not proceed until the subdivision
committee has determined that the commission or council has made a favorable
decision regarding any proposed zoning change. In any event, any such change
required in relation to the preliminary plat shall have been adopted prior to
preliminary plat approval.
   D.   Preliminary Plat Submission. The following material and information
shall be submitted by the subdivider in support of the request for preliminary
plat approval. Review of the preliminary plat shall not commence until all
required information is submitted.
      1.   Three (3) copies of the preliminary plat and required data prepared
in accordance with requirements set forth in sections
8-12-5,
8-12-6, and
8-12-9 of this chapter shall be filed with the community development department
at least twenty-five (25) working days prior to the commission meeting at which
the subdivider desires to be heard. In addition, the subdivider shall submit
one (1) reduced copy of the proposed subdivision plat; said reduced copy shall
be clear and readable and shall not exceed eleven (11) inches by seventeen (17)
inches in size.
      2.   Reviewing fee. The subdivider shall, at the time of submitting the
preliminary plat, pay to the city a reviewing fee in the amount set by the City
Council. The reviewing fee shall also cover the submittal of an amended or
revised preliminary plat handled as the same case. If the preliminary plat
approval expires before application for final approval, the plat shall be
resubmitted for preliminary approval as a new case and the subdivider shall pay
the required.
      3.   The submittal shall be checked by the community development
department for completeness and assigned a case number. If incomplete as to
those requirements set , the submittal shall be rejected and the subdivider
notified in writing within five (5) working days. If the specified fee has been
paid, scheduling of the case for commission hearing shall be dependent upon
adequacy of data presented and completion of processing.
      4.   The subdivider shall submit a title report or a commitment for title
insurance indicating the nature of the applicant’s ownership of the land
included in the preliminary plat.
   E.   Preliminary plat review.
      1.   The community development department shall distribute copies of the
plat and supporting data to the following review offices:
         a.   City engineer;
         b.   City water and sewer divisions or the appropriate service
provider;
         c.   City fire chief;
         d.   City street superintendent;
         e.   North Central District Health Department for satisfaction of
sanitary restrictions as required by Idaho Code, Section 50-1326;
         f.   Superintendent of the appropriate school district;
         g.   If the land abuts a state highway, to the Idaho Highway
Department; if the land abuts a county road, to the county commissioners;
         h.   Public utilities;
         i.   State department of health and welfare, division of environment;
         j.   Soil and water conservation district.
      2.   The reviewing offices shall transmit their recommendations in
writing to the community development department which receives and summarizes
the recommendations and presents them to the subdivision committee. The
community development department prepares the report and recommendations of the
subdivision committee, and forwards them to the commission.
   F.   Preliminary Plat Approval.
      1.   The city council shall review the preliminary plat within forty-five
(45) calendar days of the date a full and complete application was received.
      2.   If satisfied that all objectives of this chapter have been met, and
that it is in conformance with the comprehensive plan, the council shall
approve the preliminary plat, with such conditions as are appropriate. Among
the conditions required by council shall be the submission of construction
plans and specifications.
      3.   If the council finds the preliminary plat requires major revision,
the council may reject the plat stating the reason for the rejection. Said
reasons for rejection shall be transmitted in writing by the city clerk to the
subdivider within five (5) working days following the rejection of the plat by
the council.
      4.   If a plat is rejected by the council, the review of a new plat for
the same tract or any part thereof, if submitted within ninety (90) calendar
days of the date of rejection, shall be considered under the original review
fee. Should the plat be submitted to the city more than ninety (90) calendar
days after rejection, the subdivider shall follow the aforementioned procedure
and again shall be subject to the required fee.
   G.   Significance Of Preliminary Plat Approval. Preliminary plat approval
constitutes authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of
the final plat, and with the construction plans and specifications for public
improvements. Preliminary plat approval is based upon the following terms:
      1   The basic conditions under which approval of the preliminary plat is
granted will not be changed prior to expiration date.
      2.   Approval is valid for a period of twelve (12) months from date of
council action. Time for completion of improvements required by the preliminary
plat may, upon application by the subdivider, and upon good cause showing, be
extended for a period of six (6) months by the city council or as provided for
in subsection (4). Should a final plat not be submitted to the city within the
specified time period, the review process shall recommence as for a new
subdivision and the subdivider shall submit to the city a new reviewing fee
and, if necessary, a revised plat containing any revisions required by
amendments in the city code approved since the date of the original submittal.
      3.   Preliminary plat approval, in itself, does not assure final
acceptance.
      4.   However, if circumstances require, a final plat which includes only
a part of the approved preliminary plat may be submitted and processed for
council approval during the twelve (12) months time period. Approval of the
entire preliminary plat shall remain active as long as final plats are
submitted at a minimum of twelve (12) month intervals.
   H.   Information Required For Preliminary Plat Submittal.
      1.   Form of presentation. The information required as part of the
preliminary plat submittal shall be shown graphically or by note on plans, or
by letter, and may comprise several sheets showing various elements or required
data. All mapped data for the same plat, except the vicinity map, shall be
drawn at the same scale of one hundred (100) feet to an inch. Whenever
practical, the drawing shall measure twenty-two (22) inches by thirty-six (36)
inches and should not exceed forty-two (42) inches by sixty (60) inches.
      2.   Identification and descriptive data.
         a.   Proposed name of the subdivision, in accordance with Idaho Code,
Section 501307, and its location by section, township, and range; referenced to
a section corner, quarter-corner, or recorded monument.
         b.   Name, address, and phone number of subdivider.
         c.   Name, address, and phone number of the person preparing the plat.
         d.   Scale, north point, and date of preparation including dates of
any subsequent revisions.
         e.   Vicinity map clearly showing proposed subdivision in relationship
to adjacent subdivisions, arterial routes, major streets, collectors, and other
important features.
      3.   Existing conditions data.
         a.   Topography by contours related to USCG survey datum, or other
datum approved by the city engineer, shown on the same map as the proposed
subdivision layout and showing proposed contours adequate to describe future
grading. Contour interval shall be such as to adequately reflect the character
and drainage of the land.
         b.   Soils stability analysis when required by the city engineer.
         c.   Location of water wells, streams, canals, irrigation laterals,
private ditches, washes, lakes, wetlands or potential wetlands or other water
features; direction of flow; location and extent of areas subject to inundation
whether such inundation be frequent, periodic, or occasional.
         d.   Location, widths, and names of all platted streets, railroads,
utility rights-of-way of public record, public areas, permanent structures to
remain including water wells, and municipal corporation lines within or
adjacent to the tract.
         e.   Names, book, and page numbers of all recorded adjacent
subdivisions having common boundaries with the tract.
         f.   By note, the existing zoning classifications of the tract.
         g.   By note, the acreage of the tract.
         h.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided shall be fully
dimensioned.
      4.   Proposed conditions data.
         a.   Street layout, including location, width and proposed names of
public streets, alleys, and easements; connections to adjoining platted tract.
         b.   Typical lot dimensions (scaled); dimensions of all corner lots
and lots on curvilinear sections of streets; each lot numbered individually;
total number of lots.
         c.   Location, width, and use of easements.
         d.   Designation of all land to be dedicated or reserved for public
use within use indicated.
         e.   If plat includes land for which multifamily, commercial, or
industrial use is proposed, such areas shall be clearly designated together
with existing zoning classification and status of zoning change, if any.
      5.   Proposed utility methods. The subdivider shall address by note the
proposed method of utility services including but not limited to:
         a.   Sewage disposal.
         b.   Water supply.
          c.   Storm water disposal: Preliminary calculations and layout of
proposed system and locations of outlets, in conformance with the city storm
water management plan and subject to approval of the city engineer.
         d.   Fire protection: Preliminary evaluation by the fire chief of
available water supply and pressure and required spacing of fire hydrants.
(Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-7: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the final plat is to consider and approve the
necessary maps, plats and documents that demonstrate conformity to the approved
preliminary plat and associated conditions of approval in accordance with
provisions of this code and Idaho state statutes.
   B.   Final Plat. This stage includes the final design of the subdivision,
engineering of public improvements, and submittal of the plat and construction
plans by the subdivider. It includes review of the final plat by the
appropriate agencies, and submission for final action by the council.
      1.   Zoning. Zoning of the tract shall regulate the proposed use, and any
zoning amendment necessary shall have been adopted by the council prior to
submittal of the final plat, and shall be noted thereon.
      2.   Easements, It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to
provide on the final plat such easements in such location and width as required
for utility purposes. Prior to filing the final plat, he shall have submitted
the plat to the person(s) authorized to perform plat review for the utility
interests. Prior to final plat review by the city engineer, a letter shall have
been received from said interested utilities signifying that easements shown on
the plat are complete and satisfactory for utility purposes.
      3.   Final plat preparation. The final plat shall be prepared in
accordance with requirements set forth in these regulations and shall conform
closely to the approved preliminary plat.
   C.   Final Plat Submittal. The subdivider shall submit the final plat map
prepared in conformance with provisions of this chapter and that information
required of this code to the community development department at least twenty-
five (25) working days prior to the council meeting at which the subdivider
desires to be heard. The community development department, upon receipt of a
complete plat submittal, shall record the receipt and date of submittal and
forward the submittal to the city engineer who shall then proceed with review
action. Should changes or corrections to the plat be found necessary, each
resubmittal of the plat shall require and additional twenty-five (25) working
days for review. Following the final approval of the plat by the city engineer
and city surveyor, the city engineer shall forward the plat to the city council
along with his recommendation for action made in writing.
   D.   Final Plat Review.
      1.   The engineer upon receipt of the final plat submittal shall
immediately check it for completeness. If incomplete, the date of submittal
shall be voided and the submittal shall be returned to the subdivider. If
complete, the city engineer shall review drainage and flood control measures
and review the plat for substantial conformity to the approved preliminary plat
and refer copies of the submittal to the appropriate reviewing offices who will
make known their recommendations in writing addressed to the city engineer.
      2.   The engineer shall assemble the recommendations of the various
reviewing offices, prepare a concise summary of recommendations, and submit
said summary together with the reviewer’s recommendations to the council.
      3.   At the time of submittal of the final plat to the city, the
subdivider shall pay a fee as established by the city council.
   E.   Final plat approval.
      1.   If the engineer concludes that the final plat is not in substantial
conformity with the preliminary plat, the engineer shall report his findings to
the planning and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission shall
then recommend approval or denial of the final plat to the city council. The
city council then shall consider the final plat.
      2.   If in the opinion of the engineer, the final plat is in substantial
compliance with the preliminary plat, the engineer shall recommend approval to
the city council.
      3.   The council shall review and act upon the final plat within twenty-
five (25) working days of the date of receipt by the engineer.
      4.   Upon approval of the plat by the council, the clerk shall transcribe
a certificate of approval upon the plat, first making sure that the other
required certifications (division F.6. of this section) have been duly signed,
including letter of agreement between subdivider and serving utilities, that
engineering plans have been approved by the engineer, the agreement between
city and subdivider (a) has been executed, and that an appropriate guarantee of
covering said approved plan improvements has been posted with the engineer. The
city shall also record the final plat with the office of the Lewis County
recorder.
      5.   Should the council reject the plat, in whole or in part, it shall
advise the subdivider in writing of the reasons for the denial.
   F.   Information Required For Final Plat Submittal.
      1.   Method and medium of presentation.
         a.   The subdivider shall provide a record copy of the final plat
prepared as described in Idaho Code, Section 50-1304.
         b.   Copies of the recorded plat shall be reproduced in the form of
blueline or blackline prints on a white background.
         c.   The plat shall be drawn to an accurate scale of one hundred (100)
feet to the inch, or multiple thereof, unless a different scale is previously
approved by the engineer.
      2.   Identification data required.
         a.   A title which includes the name of the subdivision and its
location by number of section, township, range, and county. Titles shall comply
with Idaho Code, Section 50-1307.
         b.   Name, address, and registration number of the seal of the
professional engineer or land surveyor, registered in the state of Idaho,
preparing the plat.
         c.   Scale, north arrow, and date of plat preparation.
      3.   Survey data required.
         a.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided which shall close within
tolerances prescribed by Idaho Code, showing all bearings and distances
determined by an accurate survey in the field. All dimensions shall be
expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
         b.   Any excepted parcel(s) within the plat boundaries shall show all
bearings and distances determined by an accurate survey in the field. All
dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
         c.   Location and description, and Idaho State plane coordinates of
cardinal points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on
the plat shall be referenced; each of two (2) corners of the subdivision
traverse shall be tied by course and distance to separate section corners,
quarter-section corners, or to existing recorded monuments.
         d.   Location of all permanent physical encroachments upon the
boundaries of the tract.
       4.   Descriptive data required.
         a.   Name, right-of-way lines, courses, length, width of all existing
and proposed public streets, alleys, utility easements, radii, points of
tangency, and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys, and radii
of all rounded street line intersections.
         b.   All drainageways shall be shown on the plat. The rights-of-way of
all major drainageways, as designated by the city engineer, shall be dedicated
to the public.
         c.   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements. Construction within the
easement shall be limited to utilities and wood, wire, or removable section-
type fencing.
         d.   Location and all dimensions of all lots.
         e.   All lots shall be numbered by consecutive numbers throughout the
plat. “Exceptions,” “tracts,” and U private parks” shall be so designated,
lettered, or named and clearly dimensioned.
         f.   All sites to be dedicated to the public will be clearly
indicated, the boundaries and dimensions accurately shown, and the intended
uses specified.
         g.   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with date, book, and page
number of recording noted, or, if unrecorded, so marked.
         h.   Any proposed private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the
plat or any part or parts thereof pertaining to the intended use of the land
shall be typewritten and attached to the plat and to each copy submitted.
         i.   Sanitary restrictions required by Idaho Code, Section 50-1326.
      5.   Dedication and acknowledgment.
         a.   Dedication: Statement of dedication of all streets, alleys,
crosswalks, drainageways, pedestrian ways, and other easements for public use
by the person holding title as vendees under a land contract, and by spouses of
said parties. If lands dedicated are mortgaged, the mortgagee shall also sign
the plat.
         b.   Dedication shall include a written location by section, township,
and range of the tract, If the plat contains private streets, public utilities
shall have the right to install and maintain utilities in the street right-of-
way.
      6.   Required certifications.
         a.   Certificate signed by the owner or owners, containing a correct
legal description of the land, together with a statement of their intention to
include the same in the plat, and making dedication of all streets and alleys
shown on the plat. This certificate shall be notarized.
         b.   Certificate signed by an Idaho-licensed engineer or surveyor that
the plat is correct and accurate, and that the monuments described in it have
been located as described. This certificate shall include the seal of the
engineer or surveyor.
         c.   Certificate and seal of the city engineer and of the city or
county surveyor that the plat complies with the requirements of Title 50,
Chapter 13, Idaho Code, and with this chapter.
         d.   Certificate signed by the city clerk that the city council has
approved and accepted the plat.
         e.   Certificate, signed by the owner or owners, on the provision of
water service to the lots within the subdivision, as provided by Idaho Code,
Section 50-1334.
         f.   Certificate of satisfaction of the sanitary restrictions, to be
endorsed by the county recorder at the time of filing, or subsequent thereto,
when the sanitary restrictions shall have been satisfied as required by Idaho
Code, Section 50-1326.
         g.   Certificate of recording, to be signed by the county recorder at
the time of filing. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-8: ADMINISTRATIVE PLATS:
   A.   Purpose. The administrative plat process is intended to provide a
streamlined means of subdividing property in those instances in which no public
improvements are required, all property fronts upon an improved, publicly
dedicated street and ten (10) or fewer lots are being created in conformance
with the zoning ordinance. Administrative plats may not contain more than one
flag lot as defined in Winchester City.
   B.   Administrative plat procedure. When the proposed land division includes
ten (10) or fewer lots, all of which have direct access to a pre-existing
improved public street, and not requiring any major improvements as provided in
the definition of an administrative plat, the administrative plat procedure may
be used. The procedure shall be as follows:
      1.   Preapplication conference as required by section 3R;2 of this
chapter.
      2.   The subdivider shall submit to the city a plat map prepared in
conformance with provisions of this chapter and that information required in
this code to the community development department at least twenty-five (25)
working days prior to the council meeting at which the subdivider desires to be
heard. The community development department, upon receipt of a complete plat
submittal, shall record the receipt and date of submittal and forward the
submittal to the city engineer who shall then proceed with review. Should
changes or corrections to the plat be found necessary, each resubmittal of the
plat shall require an additional twenty-five (25) working days for review.
Following the final approval of the plat by the city engineer and city
surveyor, the city engineer shall forward the plat to the community development
department with his recommendation for council action made in writing. The
community development department shall forward the completed plat, along with
the city engineer’s recommendation to the city council for final action.
      3.   At the time of submittal to the city, the subdivider shall pay a fee
in the amount set by the city council.
   C.   Administrative plat submittal.
      1.   Administrative plat application and plat drawings:
         a.   The plat shall be eighteen (18) inches by twenty-seven (27)
inches in size and shall comply with the other requirements of the Idaho Code,
Section 50-1304.
         b.   The scale of the drawing may be either one (1) inch to fifty (50)
feet or one (1) inch to one hundred (100) feet, as best suits the particular
case.
         c.   The information required by divisions C.2.b. through C.2.d. and
C.2.f. of this section shall be included on the plate.
         d.   The subdivider shall submit the reproducible plat and three (3)
copies of the plat.
      2.   In addition to the required subdivision plat map, the applicant
shall submit the following material:
         a.   Request for administrative plat review and approval.
         b.   A statement from the state department of health and welfare that
the volume and quality of the proposed water supply is adequate and
satisfactory.
         c.   Letters from the serving utility companies as required this
chapter.
         d.   Evidence from the city fire marshal that adequate fire protection
is available within the distances required by the Uniform Fire Code and with
adequate pressure for the uses intended on the property.
         e.   Acknowledgment that curbs, gutters and sidewalks are required
pursuant to chapter 31.
         f.   The subdivider shall submit a title report or a commitment for
title insurance indicating the nature of applicant’s ownership of the land
included in the administrative plat.
      3.   For administrative plats that are located on existing public rights-
of-way of less than fifty (50) feet in width, the subdivider shall be required
to dedicate an additional five (5) feet along that existing right-of-way to the
city.
   D.   Administrative Plat Approval And Filing.
      1.   The council, upon receipt of the plat and written recommendation of
the city engineer and community development department, shall proceed as
specified.
      2.   The city shall file the approved administrative plat with the county
recorder. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-9: SUBDIVISION DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   General.
      1.   Every subdivision shall conform to the requirements and objectives
of the city comprehensive plan or any parts thereof, as adopted by the
commission and/or the city council, to the zoning ordinance, to other
ordinances and regulations of the city, and to the Idaho statutes.
      2.   The subdivider/developer shall provide an impact statement of the
proposed subdivision on adjacent uses and land used in the vicinity of the
proposed subdivision.
      3.   The subdivider/developer shall provide an impact statement of the
proposed subdivisions impact on the local economy, schools, parks and community
service.
      4.   The subdivision shall include the entire tract of land unless an
approved preliminary plat, planned unit development or approved development
master plan shows development in phases. When development is planned in phases,
a schedule will be submitted with the preliminary plat showing the anticipated
completion time for each stage.
      5.   Where the tract to be subdivided contains all or any part of the
site of a proposed park, school, flood control facility, or other public area
as shown by the city’s comprehensive plan or future acquisitions map the city
shall comply with the provisions of Idaho Code, Section 376517.
      6.   Land which is within a known floodplain, land which cannot be
properly drained, or other land which, in the opinion of the subdivision
committee, is unsuitable for residential use shall not be subdivided; except
that the subdivision of such land upon receipt of evidence from the North
Central District Health Department and/or city engineer that the construction
of specific improvements can be expected to render the land suitable;
thereafter, construction upon such land shall be prohibited until the required
improvements have been planned and approval gained from the Idaho Department of
Water Resources and the Army Corps of Engineers and construction guaranteed in
conformance with the provisions of section
8-12-11 of this chapter.
      7.   Where the tract to be subdivided is located in whole or in part in
terrain having an average slope exceeding ten (10) percent, design and
development shall conform to the findings of a suitability study as required by
the city engineer.
   B.   Street Location And Arrangement.
      1.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a street
designated in the adopted city master transportation plan and/or bike and
pedestrian way designated in the adopted comprehensive plan such street, bike
way or pedestrian way shall be platted in conformance therewith.
      2.   Street layout shall provide for the continuation of such street as
the subdivision committee may designate.
      3.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided is located within an area for
which a neighborhood plan has been approved by the commission, the street
arrangement shall conform substantially to said plan.
      4.   Certain proposed streets and utilities, as designated by the
subdivision committee, shall be extended to the tract boundary to provide
future connections with adjoining unplatted land.
      5.   Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
      6.   If a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial route, the subdivision committee may recommend, and the commission may
require, marginal access streets or reverse frontage with access control along
the arterial route, or such other treatment as may be justified for protection
of abutting properties from the nuisance and hazard of high volume traffic, and
to preserve the traffic function of the arterial route.
      7.   If a subdivision abuts or contains the right-of-way of a railroad, a
limited access road, an irrigation canal, drainage facilities or abuts a
commercial or industrial land use, the subdivision committee may recommend
location of a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-
of-way at a distance suitable for appropriate use of the intervening land. Such
distance shall be determined with due regard for approach grades, drainage,
bridges, or future grade separations.
      8.   Streets shall be so arranged in relation to existing topography as
to be in conformance with city standards.
      9.   Either alleys or utility easements along rear lot lines may be
required. The subdivision committee shall decide which is required in
individual cases, Its decision shall be made in conference with the subdivider,
and shall be based on all relevant circumstances such as topographic traits,
lot sizes, and continuity of existing alleys and easements.
      10.   Half streets within the subdivision boundaries shall be
discouraged, except where essential to provide right-of-way, to complete a
street pattern already begun, or to insure reasonable development of a number
of adjoining parcels. Where there exists a platted half street abutting the
tract to be subdivided and said half street furnishes the sole access to
residential lots, the remaining half shall be platted within the tract. Where
the half street has had no improvement or construction, the subdivision
committee may recommend that the subdivider provide a full right-of-way to
serve his development.
   C.   Street Design. Street design shall be in based upon the classification
of the street and shall be in conformance with adopted city standards.
   D.   Block Design.
      1.   The desirable maximum length of block measured along the center line
of the street and between intersecting street center lines shall be nine
hundred (900) feet; except that in developments with lot areas averaging one-
half (½) acre or more, or where extreme topographic conditions warrant, the
maximum may be exceeded by four hundred twenty (420) feet.
      2.   Maximum length of cul-de-sac streets shall be six hundred sixty
(660) feet measured from the intersection of right-of-way lines to the extreme
depth of the turning circle along the street center line. An exception may be
made where topography or property ownership justifies, but shall not be made
merely because the tract has restrictive boundary dimensions, wherein provision
should be made for extension of street pattern to the adjoining unplatted
parcel and a temporary turnaround installed.
   E.   Lot Planning.
      1.   a.   Lot width, depth, and area shall comply with the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance and shall be appropriate for the location
and character of development proposed, and for the type and extent of street
and utility improvements being installed. Side lot lines shall be substantially
at right angles or radial to street lines, except where other treatment may be
justified in the opinion of the subdivision committee.
         b.   Where steep topography, unusual soil conditions, or drainage
problems exist or prevail, the commission may recommend special lot width,
depth, and area requirements of the particular zoning district.
      2.   Proposed streets shall be arranged in close relation to existing
topography and shall conform to adopted city standards. Where steep topography
prevails, the design shall conform to the findings of any special study
required by the city engineer.
      3.   Single-family residential lots extending through the block and
having frontage on two (2) parallel streets shall not be permitted; reverse
frontage shall be prohibited except where expressly permitted in accordance
with section or where justified in the opinion of the subdivision committee.
   F.   Easement Planning. Easements shall be provided for all utilities and
shall be in conformance with the standards of the utility providing service.
      1.   Easements for utilities shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Where alleys are provided: Four (4) feet for aerial overhead on
each side of alley shall be provided by dedication but need not be delineated
on plat.
         b.   Along side lot lines: Five (5) feet on each side of lot lines for
distribution facilities and one foot on each side of lot lines for street
lighting as may be designated.
      2.   For lots facing on curvilinear streets, utility easements or alley
may consist of a series of straight lines with points of deflection not less
than one hundred twenty (120) feet apart. Points of deflection should always
occur at the junction of side and rear lot lines on the side of the exterior
angle. Curvilinear easements or alleys may be provided, providing that the
minimum radius for the alley or easement shall not be less than eight hundred
(800) feet.
      3.   Land within a public street or drainage easement or land within a
utility easement for major power transmission (tower) lines or pipelines shall
not be considered a part of the minimum lot area except where lots exceed one-
half (1/2) acre in area. This shall not be construed as applicable to land
involved in utility easements for distribution of service purposes. Street
naming.
Subdivider shall propose the street names, subject to approval by the city
council, at the preliminary plat stage. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-10: STREET AND UTILITY IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the section is to establish in outline the
minimum acceptable standards for improvement of public streets and utilities,
to define the responsibility of the subdivider in the planning, construction,
and financing of public improvements, and to establish procedures for review
and approval of construction plans.
   B.   Developer’s Responsibility. All improvements required as a condition of
preliminary plat approval shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
   C.   Construction Plans And Specifications.
      1.   The subdivider shall submit to the city engineer construction plans
and specifications pursuant to the approved preliminary plat as required by
sections
8-12-10 and
8-12-11 for his approval. Said construction plans shall be prepared by an
engineer licensed to practice in the state of Idaho.
      2.   In the event the subdivider wishes to file the final plat prior to
the construction of public improvements, the subdivider shall enter into a
public improvement agreement with the city for the construction of the public
improvements. The council’s approval of the public improvement agreement shall
constitute approval of the construction plans and specifications.
      3.   In the event the subdivider wishes to complete the public
improvements prior to submitting the final plat for approval, the subdivider
shall submit the necessary construction plans and specifications to the city
engineer for review and approval prior to commencing any construction. Upon
completion of said public improvements in conformance with the approved plans,
the subdivider shall submit the “as built drawings” of the improvements along
with the final plat map for review and action by the city. In this case, no
public improvement agreement is necessary save for certification that the
subdivider shall provide the city with evidence of compliance with the one year
warranty period as required in section 32 42, Warranty of Improvements.
   D.   As Built Drawings. Upon completion of the construction and prior to the
acceptance by the city of the required public improvements, the developer shall
submit to the city engineer a set of “as built drawings” which accurately
depict the grade, alignment size and other pertinent features of the
installation as actually constructed. Said “as built drawings” shall be stamped
by an engineer licensed to practice in the state of Idaho who shall certify
that the drawings accurately depict the installation as actually constructed.
The city of Winchester shall not accept the improvements for public maintenance
or ownership without said “as built drawings”.
   E.   Warranty Of Improvements. Upon completion of the required public
improvements and prior to the acceptance of said improvements by the city, the
developer shall provide to the city as written warranty that the improvements
shall perform as designed for a period of one (1) year. Any flaw or defect
found or encountered within the year warranty period shall be the financial
responsibility of the developer who shall promptly repair said flaw or defect
to the satisfaction of the city and shall provide an additional warranty period
for the repair as specified by the city engineer, said additional warranty
period not to exceed one (1) year in duration.
   F.   Grading And Erosion Control During Construction. Construction grading
and erosion control during construction shall conform to city standards as
prepared by the city engineer and adopted by the city council.
   G.   Construction And Inspection.
      1.   Prior to the construction or installation of any required public
improvements for water supply or sewerage systems, for any site grading,
construction of storm water detention systems or parking areas, the developer
shall apply for and receive the appropriate permits from the city of Winchester
for said improvements.
      2.   All relocation, tiling, and reconstruction of irrigation facilities
shall be constructed to standards of the owning utility and the city engineer.
      3.   All improvements in the public right-of-way shall be constructed
under the inspection and approval of the city department having jurisdiction.
      4.   All underground utilities to be installed in streets shall be
constructed prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service stubs to platted
lots within the subdivision shall be placed to such length as not to
necessitate disturbance of street improvements when service connections are
made. If connected to a city-owned system, application and fee shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider in accord with city requirements.
   H.   Required Improvements. The subdivider shall design and construct all
improvements in conformance with adopted city standards and codes. Should
unique conditions exist such that these standards cannot reasonably be met, the
subdivider may petition the council for amendments to the specific standard.
Said request for amendment shall be accompanied by an engineering report which
identifies the standard proposed and the reasons justifying such request. The
subdivider is responsible for the design and installation of the following
improvements:
      1.   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys within the subdivision
shall be graded and surfaced to cross-sections, grades and standards approved
by the city engineer, Where there are existing streets adjacent to the
subdivision, subdivision streets shall be improved, and, if necessary,
feathered to the center of such existing streets. Dead-end streets serving more
than four (4) lots shall be provided a graded and surfaced temporary turning
circle. A traffic report may be required to document the traffic impacts of the
subdivision; the subdivider shall be responsible for the installation of both
off-site and on-site improvements recommended in the traffic report.
      2.   Curbs. Portland cement concrete curb and gutter or roll curb, as
designated by the city engineer, shall be installed in accordance with approved
city standards.
      3.   Sidewalks. Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be required on
all streets in all zones. They shall be constructed to a width, line, and grade
approved by the city engineer in accordance with approved city standards. Where
unique topographical characteristics exist and the installation of sidewalks is
not practical, the commission may recommend that certain portions of sidewalks
within the subdivision be waived.
      4.   Pedestrian and bicycle ways. Pedestrian and bicycle ways shall be
constructed to a line and grade approved by the city engineer. Paving, fencing,
and/or landscaping may be required by the commission as recommended by the
subdivision committee. Appropriate means shall be provided to prevent the use
of the pedestrian ways as thoroughfares for bicycles and motorcycles.
      5.   Storm drainage, Proper and adequate provision shall be made for
disposal of storm waters; this shall apply equally to grading of private
properties and to public streets. Existing watercourses shall be maintained and
dedicated as drainage ways. The type, extents, location, and capacity of
drainage facilities shall be determined for the individual subdivision by the
engineer for approval by the city engineer and shall be constructed in
accordance with approved city standards.
      6.   Sanitary sewage disposal. Septic tanks are not permitted in the city
limits of Winchester. (This section is for the impact area of Winchester).
Sewage disposal facilities shall be installed to serve each lot and shall be
subject to the following standards and approvals:
         a.   Individual systems may be constructed only in areas not
reasonably accessible to a public sewer system, and then, only when the
following conditions are met, to the satisfaction of the state department of
health and welfare and subject to the approval of the public works
administrator:
            (1)   Soil absorptivity is adequate for drainfields.
            (2)   Construction complies with approved standards for sewerage
systems.
            (3)   Location of septic tanks and seepage pits or leach lines or
disposal beds in relation to property lines, buildings, water supply wells and
water lines are acceptable to the department. Location shall be such that
efficient and economical connection can be made to a future public sewer.
            (4)   Lots of one (1) acre and larger.
         b.   Public sanitary sewers shall be installed in areas which are in
the city limits of Winchester and shall be constructed to plans, profiles, and
specifications approved by the state department of health and welfare and city
departments having jurisdiction.
         c.   In areas where public sanitary sewers are not reasonably
accessible, but where the city, or independent sewer district having
jurisdiction, agrees to provide temporary disposal of sewage, or where an
engineering design for a sewer system for the area in which the subdivision is
located has been adopted by the city, the subdivider shall plan and construct
sewers within and for the subdivision for connection with a future public
system.
      7.   Water supply. Each lot (within the city limits of Winchester) shall
be supplied with potable water in sufficient volume and pressure for domestic
use and adequate water, in pressure and volume, for fire protection, in
accordance with city standards.
      8.   Monuments. Permanent monuments shall be installed in accordance with
current city standards at all corners, angle points, points of curve, and at
all intersections. After all improvements have been installed, an Idaho
registered land surveyor shall check the location of monuments and certify
their accuracy and conformance to Idaho Code, Section 50-1303.
      9.   Lot corners, Iron pipe or pins shall be set at all corners, angle
points, and points of curve for each lot within the subdivision prior to the
recording of the plat in conformance with Idaho Code, Section 50-1303.
      10.   Utilities.
         a.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the requirements of this
section and shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving
utility companies involved for the installation of underground utilities.
Letters from each of the serving utility companies indicating that such
arrangements have been made shall be submitted to the city engineer at the time
the final plat is submitted for approval.
         b.   New utility lines, including, but not limited to, electric,
communication, and television transmission lines, shall be installed
underground in accordance with the standards of the current edition of the
National Electric Safety Code. When facilities are installed in the public
right-of-way, the location shall be approved by the city engineer.
         c.   When overhead utility lines exist within the property being
platted, said existing lines shall be removed and replaced by new underground
installations.
         d.   When overhead utility lines exist on the periphery of the
property being platted, said existing lines and any additions or improvements
needed to increase capacity or improve service reliability may remain overhead.
         e.   When, as a result of the subdivision development, it is necessary
to relocate, renew, or expand existing facilities within the platted area, the
subdivider shall arrange with the serving utility for the installations to be
placed overhead, except on private property.
         f.   The subdivider shall arrange with the serving utility for, and be
responsible for the cost of service lines to approved street light locations a
specified in this section.
         g.   When, due to subsurface soil conditions, rock, and/or other
special conditions, it is determined by the city engineer that it is
impractical to construct facilities underground, the council may recommend
approval of the overhead installation of facilities.
         h.   Those electrical transmission lines of greater than three
thousand (3,000) kva (kilovolt-amperes), as rated by the American Standards
Association, are excluded from the requirements of this section.
      11.   Street lights.
         a.   In all subdivisions or commercial or industrial developments,
street lights and their required electrical service lines shall be installed as
directed by the public works administrator. The street light type, size and
locations shall be indicated on the approved construction plans and
specifications. All fixtures, poles, conduit and other facilities shall meet
the specifications and standards of the utility providing service.
         b.   If required, the developer will reimburse the city for all
installation costs and monthly street light service fees in accordance with the
current utility provider fee schedule and the subdivision improvement
agreement, until such time as the subdivision or development is approved and
accepted by the city council.
         c.   Once the subdivision or development has been approved and
accepted by the city council, the monthly street light service cost will be
borne by the city. (Ord. No.)
   I.   Review Fee And Approval Of Construction Plans. A fee for review of the
construction plans shall be paid to the city prior to the time review of the
plans is conducted by city personnel. The review fee shall be in the amount set
forth by the city council. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-11: GUARANTEE OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Public improvement agreement.
      1.   Agreement between city and subdivider. Prior to the approval by the
city council of the final plat, the subdivider shall execute an agreement
between himself and the city which shall be reviewed and approved by the city
attorney and shall address the following points:
         a.   Planned increments of improvements: The subdivision improvements
may be constructed in practical increments of lots, as specified by the
subdivider, subject to provisions for satisfactory drainage, traffic movements,
and other services as determined by the city engineer.
         b.   Planned construction schedule: The improvements, shall be
completed within an agreed upon time period for each increment, provided that
an extension of time may be granted under such conditions as may be specified
in the agreement.
         c.   Adherence to approved plans and city construction standards: The
improvements shall be completed in accordance with the plans approved by the
city engineer.
         d.   Abandoned or uncompleted improvements: Any work abandoned or not
completed by the subdivider may be completed by the city, and the city shall
recover the costs thereof from the subdivider or his surety.
         e.   Inspection of completed work: Construction of all improvements
within streets and easements, except those utility facilities specified in this
chapter, shall be subject to inspection by the city engineer. A fee may be
charged for this inspection.
   B.   Financial Guarantee Of Construction:
      1.   To reasonably insure construction of the required improvements, the
subdivider shall post with the city prior to the recording of the final plat,
one or a combination of the following, which shall be subject to review and
approval of the city attorney:
         a.   A performance and completion bond executed by a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho;
         b.   Cash; or
         c.   An appropriate agreement between the applicable title insurance
and trust company or a city-approved financial institution and the city of
Lewiston committing the amount referred to in subsection C.2. of this section
for installing said improvements.
      2.   For each subdivision increment, the total amount posted by methods
a., b., and/or c. above shall be equal to one hundred thirty-five (135) percent
of the entire estimated costs of installing the said improvements, the
engineering and inspection costs for that increment, and the cost of
replacement or repair of any existing streets or improvements damaged by the
subdivider in the course or development of the subdivision, All public
improvements for which a financial security has been provided pursuant to this
section shall be constructed within one (1) year after the city council
approval of the subdivision improvement agreement. In the event the
improvements are not constructed by the subdivider within one (1) year as
herein provided, the city shall have the authority to execute on the financial
security to construct the public improvements.
      3.   There shall be no lots released for sale from the indicated
increment of lots until either the bond, cash, or agreement referred to above
has been posted with and accepted by the city clerk and a written statement
issued by the city clerk to the title company within five (5) working days of
receiving the agreement that the requirements of subsection B.2. of this
section have been met.
         a.   No construction of residential units shall be permitted until all
required public improvements have been accepted by the city and/or other
serving utility and the approved plat has been filed by the city in the
courthouse. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-12: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances Generally:
      1.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; In such cased the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provisions or
requirements involved;
      2.   That the strict compliance with the requirements of this title would
result in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual
topography, other physical conditions which are not self-inflicted, or that
these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives
of this title.
      3.   In modifying the standards or requirements of these provisions as
outlined above, the council may make such additional requirements as appear
necessary, in its judgment, to secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements so modified.
      4.   That the granting of a specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the
property is situated;
      5.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of Idaho Code.
(Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-13: PROHIBITION AGAINST CIRCUMVENTION OF CHAPTER:
Prohibition Against Circumvention Of Chapter Generally: No person, firm,
corporation, or other legal entity shall, for the purpose of circumventing any
of the provisions of this chapter, hereafter sell, or offer for sale any lot,
piece, or parcel of land which is within a subdivision as defined without
having first recorded a plat thereof in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
8-12-14: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND REMEDIES:
Violations, Penalties And Remedies Generally:
   A.   Any person or any member or officer of any firm, corporation, or other
legal entity who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished by a fine of not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment for not more than
thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with
the requirements of these regulations.
   B.   The violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance. In addition to any other remedy, either criminal or civil,
provided by this chapter or by the laws of the state of Idaho, any condition
existing in violation of any provision of this chapter may be abated by action
in law or equity before any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 298, 11-8-
2021)
8-12-15: VALIDITY OF THE CHAPTER:
Severability. If any provision of this chapter is held invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect any other provision which can be given effect without the
invalid provision, and, to this end, the provisions of this chapter are
declared to be severable. (Ord. 298, 11-8-2021)
