BANKS, OR
MUNICIPAL CODE
2023 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-10-01, passed 10-12-2023
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1668.png]
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-06-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BANKS, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Banks are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oregon empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the City of Banks has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
Banks of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BANKS HEREBY ORDAINS
AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Banks as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Banks, State of Oregon".
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles: As Shown on Exhibit I.
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Brought before Banks City Council June 12, 2007.
Passed by Banks City and effective as of June 12, 2007.
                        T. Branstitre /s/
                        Mayor Teri Branstitre
Attest:
Jolynn Becker /s/
City Recorder: Jolynn Becker   
                     Summary of Votes:
                     Brian Biehl      Yes/No Abs
                     Pete Edison      Yes/No
                     Dan Keller      Yes/No
                     Craig Stewart      Yes/No
                     Jason Short      Yes/No
                     Ron Kemper      Yes/No
BANKS, OREGON
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHARTER
   Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   City Officials
      32.   City Organizations
      33.   System Development Charge
      34.   Local Improvements and Special Assessments
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Water
      51.   Cross Connection Control
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Nuisances
      91.   Animals
      92.   Parks and Recreation
      93.   Abandoned Vehicles
      94.   Urban Forestry
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Business Licensing
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Offenses
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Zoning Code
      152.   Land Division Regulations
      153.   Comprehensive Plan
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Annexations
      II.   Zoning Map Changes
      III.   Franchises
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
INDEX
CHARTER
Preamble
We, the voters of Banks, Oregon exercise our power to the fullest extent
possible under the Oregon Constitution and laws of the state, and enact this
Home Rule Charter.
Chapter I – NAME AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1: TITLE of ENACTMENT
   The enactment may be referred to as the Banks City Charter of 2009.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 2: NAME OF CITY
   The municipality of Banks, Washington County, Oregon shall continue to be a
municipal corporation with the name of “City of Banks”.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 3: BOUNDARIES
   The City shall include all territory encompassed by its boundaries now
existing or hereafter as modified as provided herein, unless otherwise mandated
by State law. All annexations to the City shall be approved by the City Council
in compliance with the City's requirements and procedures regarding annexations
as provided in the City's ordinances and shall be referred to the electorate
for final approval by the majority of the electorate voting. The City Recorder
shall keep at the City Hall at least two copies of this Charter in each of
which the City Recorder shall maintain an accurate, up-to-date description of
the boundaries. The copies and description shall be available for public
inspection at any time during regular office hours of the City Recorder.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter II – POWERS
Section 4: POWERS OF THE CITY
   The City shall have all powers that which the constitutions, statutes, and
common law of the United States and of this State expressly or impliedly grant
or allow municipalities as fully as though this Charter specifically enumerated
each of those powers.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 5: CONSTRUCTION OF CHARTER
   In this Charter, no mention of a particular power shall be construed to be
exclusive or restrict the scope of the powers that the City would have if the
particular power were not mentioned. The Charter shall be liberally construed
to the end that the City may have all powers necessary or convenient for the
conduct of its municipal affairs, including all powers that cities may assume
pursuant to State laws and to the municipal home rule provisions of the State
constitution.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 6: DISTRIBUTION.
   The Oregon Constitution reserves initiative and referendum powers as to all
municipal legislation to City voters.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter III – CITY COUNCIL
Section 7: CITY COUNCIL
   The City Council consists of a Mayor and six City Councilors nominated and
elected from the City at large.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 8: MAYOR
   The Mayor presides over meetings and facilitates City Council meetings,
preserves order, enforces City Council rules, and determines the order of
business under City Council rules. The Mayor votes when the other City Council
votes results in a tie vote. The Mayor has no veto authority. With the consent
of City Council, the Mayor appoints members of commissions and committees
established by ordinance or resolution. With consent of the City Council, the
Mayor appoints additional officers of the City such as a Municipal Judge, a
City Attorney and such other officers as the City Council deems necessary. The
Mayor must sign all records of City Council decisions within three days after
their passage. After the City Council approves a bond of a City officer or a
bond for a license, contract, or proposal, the Mayor shall endorse the bond.
The Mayor serves as the political head of the City government.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 9: COUNCIL PRESIDENT
   At its first meeting each year, the City Council must elect a Council
President from its membership. The Council President presides in absence of the
Mayor and acts as Mayor when the Mayor is unable to perform duties.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 10: MEETINGS
   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting at least once every month in
the City at a time and a place that designates. The City Council must adopt
rules to govern its meetings and its members. The Mayor upon his own motion
may, or at the request of three members of the City Council shall, by giving
notice thereof to all members of the City Council then in the City, call a
special meeting of the City Council for a time not earlier than 24 hours after
the notice is given to members of the City Council and the general public,
except in case of an actual emergency.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 11: QUORUM
   A majority of the incumbent City Council shall constitute a quorum for it
business, but a small number may meet and compel the attendance of absent
members as provided by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 12: VOTE REQUIRED
   Except as this Charter prescribes otherwise, the express concurrence of a
majority of the City Council members present and constituting a quorum is
necessary to decide affirmatively a question before the City Council.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 13: RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS
   A record of City Council proceedings shall be kept and authenticated in a
manner prescribed by City Council.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 14: PROCEEDINGS TO BE PUBLIC
   Except as State law provides otherwise, the deliberations and proceedings of
the City Council shall be public.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter IV – LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
Section 15: ORDINANCES
   The City Council will exercise its legislative authority by adopting
ordinances. The enacting clause for all ordinances must state "The City of
Banks ordains as follows."
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 16: ORDINANCE ADOPTION
   (a)   Except as authorized by section (b), adoption of an ordinance requires
approval by a majority of the City Council at two meetings.
   (b)   The City Council may adopt an ordinance at a single meeting by the
unanimous approval at least a quorum of the City Council, provided that
proposed ordinance is available in writing to the public at least one week
before the meeting or upon being read first in full and then by title.
   (c)   Any substantive amendment to a proposed ordinance must be read aloud
or made available in writing to the public before the City Council adopts the
ordinance at the meeting. Notice of the draft ordinance must be given by
written notice posted at City Hall and one other public place within the City.
An ordinance enacted after being read by title alone may have no legal effect
if it differs substantially from its terms as it was filed prior to such
availability or reading, unless each amendment is read fully and distinctly as
finally amended prior to being approved by the City Councilors states above in
(c).
   (d)   After the adoption of an ordinance, the vote of each member must be
entered into the City Council minutes.
   (e)   After the adoption of an ordinance, the City Recorder shall sign it
with the date of passage, the City Recorder's name and title of office. Within
three days thereafter, the Mayor shall sign it with the Mayor's name, title of
office, and the date of signing.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 17: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES
   An ordinance enacted by the City Council shall take effect on the thirtieth
day after its enactment. When the City Council deems it advisable, however, an
ordinance may provide a later time for it to take effect, and in case of an
emergency, it may take effect immediately.
(Amendment adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-
3-2009)
Chapter V – ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY
Section 18: RESOLUTIONS
   The City Council will normally exercise its administrative authority by
approving resolutions. The approving clause for resolutions may state "The City
of Banks resolves as follows:"
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 19: RESOLUTION APPROVAL
   (a)   Approval of a resolution or any other City Council administrative
decision requires approval by the City Council at one meeting.
   (b)   Any substantive amendment to a resolution must be read aloud or made
available in writing to the public before the City Council adopts the
resolution at that meeting.
   (c)   After approval of a resolution or other administrative decision, the
vote of each member must be entered into the City Council minutes.
   (d)   After approval of a resolution, the City Recorder must endorse it with
the date of approval and the Recorder's name and title.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 20: EFFECTIVE DATE OF RESOLUTIONS
   Resolutions and other administrative decisions take effect on the date of
approval, or on a later day provided for in the resolution.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter VI – QUASI-JUDICIAL AUTHORITY
Section 21: ORDERS
   The City Council will normally exercise its quasi-judicial authority by
approving orders. The approving clause for orders may state "The City of Banks
orders as follows:
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 22: ORDER APPROVAL
   (a)   Approval of an order or any other City Council quasi-judicial decision
requires approval by the City Council at one meeting.
   (b)   Any substantive amendment to an order must be read aloud or made
available in writing to the public at the meeting before the City Council
adopts the order.
   (c)   After approval of an order or other City Council quasi-judicial
decision, the vote of each member must be entered in the City Council minutes.
   (d)   After approval of an order, the City Recorder must endorse it with the
date of approval and the City Recorder's name and title.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 23: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDERS
   Orders and other quasi-judicial decisions take effect on the date of final
approval, or on a later day as provided for in the order.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter VII – ELECTIONS
Section 24: COUNCILORS
   The term for a City Councilor in office at the time the modifying Charter
was adopted was the term for which the City Councilor was elected. At each
biennial general election thereafter, three City Councilors will be elected for
four-year terms.
   Numbered City Council Positions. The nomination of City Councilors shall be
non-partisan and shall be made in conformity with methods hereinafter provided.
City Council positions shall be numbered in consecutive order. Each City
Councilor shall be designated by the same position as the City Councilor whom
he or she has succeeded or will succeed in office. In all proceedings for the
nominations of candidates for the office of City Councilor, every petition for
nomination, nominee's acceptance and certificate of election, ballot or other
document used in connection with nominations for City Councilors shall state
the official number of the position as City Councilor to which such candidate
aspires. His or her name shall appear on the ballot only for such designated
position. At all elections such office of City Councilor to be filled shall be
separately designated on the ballot by official position number as herein
provided, in addition to other matter by law to appear thereon. An incumbent
City Councilor may not file for nomination for a election to any City Councilor
position except the one he or she presently fills.
   Limited Filing. A candidate may not file for more than one numbered position
in any one year nor can a candidate file for another City Council position in
the same year after withdrawing the original filing.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 25: MAYOR
   The Mayor that was elected in 2008 is to serve a four-year term that will
end on December 31, 2012. Each Mayor thereafter shall be elected to a two-year
term of office.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 26: STATE LAW
   City elections will conform to State law except as this Charter or
ordinances provide otherwise. All elections for City offices must be
nonpartisan.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 27: QUALIFICATIONS
   (a)   The Mayor and each City Councilor must be a qualified elector under
State law, a resident of the City, and reside within the City for at least one
year immediately before election or appointment to office.
   (b)   No person may be a candidate at a single election for more than one
City office.
   (c)   Neither the Mayor nor a City Councilor may be employed by the City.
   (d)   The City Council is the final judge of the election and qualifications
of its members.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 28: NOMINATIONS
   A qualified elector who has resided in the City during the twelve months
immediately preceding an election may apply for a place on the ballot in the
manner prescribed by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 29: TERMS
   The term of office of a person elected at a regular City election shall
commence at the first regular meeting of the year following the election.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 30: OATH
   Before entering upon the duties of the office, each officer shall take an
oath, or shall affirm, that (s)he will support the constitution and laws of the
United States and of Oregon, and the City Charter, and will faithfully perform
the duties of the office.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 31: VACANCIES
   The Mayor or a City Council office becomes vacant:
   (a)   Upon the incumbent's:
      (1)   Death,
      (2)   Adjudicated incompetence, or
      (3)   Recall from the office.
   (b)   Upon declaration by the City Council of the incumbent's:
      (1)   Failure to qualify for the office within 10 days of the time the
term of office is to begin,
      (2)   Absence from the City for 30 days without City Council consent, or
from all City Council meetings within a 60-day period,
      (3)   Ceasing to reside in the City,
      (4)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under State law,
      (5)   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty,
      (6)   Resignation from the office, or
      (7)   Removal under
Section 34(i).
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 32: FILLING VACANCIES
   A Mayor or City Councilor vacancy will be filled by appointment. A majority
of the remaining City Council members shall be required to validate the
appointment. The appointee's term of office shall run from appointment until
expiration of the term of office of the last person who was elected to that
office. If a disability prevents a City Council member from attending City
Council meetings or a member is absent from the City, a majority of the City
Council may appoint a City Councilor pro tem in the manner for filling
vacancies in office permanently.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 33: TIE VOTES
   In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an elective office, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the City Council.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter VIII – APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
Section 34: CITY MANAGER
   (a)   The office of the City Manager is established as the administrative
head of the City government. The City Manager is responsible to the Mayor and
City Council for the proper administration of all City business. The City
Manager will assist the Mayor and City Council in the development of City
policies, and carry out policies established by ordinances and resolutions.
   (b)   A majority of the City Council must appoint and may remove the City
Manager. The appointment must be made without regard to political
considerations and solely on the basis of education and experience in
competencies and practices of local government management.
   (c)   The City Manager need not reside in the City.
   (d)   The City Manager may be appointed for a definite or an indefinite
term, and may be removed at any time by a majority of the City Council. The
City Council must fill the office by appointment as soon as practicable after a
vacancy occurs.
   (e)   The City Manager must:
      (1)   Attend all City Council meetings unless excused by the Mayor or
City Council;
      (2)   Make reports and recommendations to the Mayor and City Council
about the needs of the City;
      (3)   Administer and enforce all City ordinances, resolutions,
franchises, leases, contracts, permits, and other City decisions;
      (4)   Appoint, supervise and remove City employees;
      (5)   Organize City departments and administrative structure;
      (6)   Prepare and administer the annual City budget;
      (7)   Administer City utilities and property;
      (8)   Encourage and support regional and intergovernmental cooperation;
      (9)   Promote cooperation among the City Council, staff and citizens in
developing city policies, and building a sense of community;
      (10)   Perform other duties as directed by the City Council;
      (11)   Delegate duties, but remain responsible for acts of all
subordinates.
   (f)   The City Manager has no authority over the City Council or over the
judicial functions of the Municipal Judge.
   (g)   The City Manager and other employees designated by the City Council
may sit at City Council meetings but have no vote. The City Manager may take
part in all City Council discussions.
   (h)   When the City Manager is temporarily disabled from acting as City
Manager or when the office of City Manager becomes vacant, the City Council
must appoint a City Manager pro tem. The City Manager pro tem has the authority
and duties of the City Manager, except that a pro tem City Manager may appoint
or remove employees only with City Council approval.
   (i)   No City Council member may directly or indirectly attempt to coerce
the City Manager or a candidate for the office of City Manager in the
appointment or removal of any City employee, or in administrative decisions
regarding City property or contracts. Violation of this prohibition is grounds
for removal from office by a majority of the City Council after a public
hearing. In City Council meetings, City Councilors may discuss or suggest
anything with the City Manager relating to City business.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 35: OTHER OFFICERS
   Additional officers of the City maybe a Municipal Judge, City Attorney, and
such other officers as the City Council deems necessary. Each of these officers
shall be appointed and may be removed by the Mayor with the consent of the City
Council excluding the City Recorder who shall be appointed and removed by the
City Manager. The City Council may combine any two or more appointive offices,
The City Council may designate any appointive officer to supervise any other
appointive except the City Attorney in representing the City and the Municipal
Judge in their exercise of judicial functions.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 36: RECORDER
   The City Recorder shall serve ex-officio as clerk of the City Council,
attend all of its meetings unless excused therefrom by the City Council, keep
accurate record of it proceedings, and sign all orders on the treasury. In the
City Recorder's absence from a City Council meeting, the City Manager shall
appoint a clerk of the City Council pro-tem who, while acting in that capacity,
shall have all the authority and duties of the City Recorder.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 37: MUNICIPAL JUDGE
   The Municipal Judge shall be the judicial officer of the City. He or she
shall hold within the City a court known as the Municipal Court for the City of
Banks, Washington County, Oregon. The Court shall be open for the transaction
of judicial business at times specified by the City Council. The Municipal
Judge may exercise jurisdiction of offenses defined and made punishable by
ordinances of the City and all actions brought to recover or enforce
forfeitures or penalties defined or authorized by ordinance of the City. The
Judge shall have authority to issue process for the arrest of any person of an
offense against of the City, to commit any such person to jail or admit to bail
pending trial, to issue subpoenas, to compel witnesses to appear and testify on
matters before the court, to compel obedience to such subpoenas, to issue any
process necessary to carry into affect the judgments of the Court, and to
punish witnesses and others for contempt of Court. When not governed by
ordinance or this Charter, all proceedings in the municipal court for the
violation of a City ordinance shall be governed by the applicable general laws
of the state governing justices of the peace and justice court. Notwithstanding
this section, the City Council may transfer some or all of the functions of the
Municipal Court to an appropriate other court.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 38: CITY ATTORNEY
   The office of City Attorney is established as the chief legal officer of the
City. A majority of the Council must appoint and may remove the attorney. The
City Attorney must appoint and supervise, and may remove any city attorney’s
office employees.
(Adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter IX – PERSONNEL
Section 39: COMPENSATION
   The City Council must authorize the compensation of City officers and
employees as part of its approval of the annual City budget.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter X – PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section 40: PROCEDURE
   The City Council may by ordinance provide for procedures governing the
making, altering, vacating, or abandoning of a public improvement. A proposed
public improvement may be suspended for six months upon remonstrance by owners
of the real property to be specially assessed for the improvement. The number
of owners necessary to suspend the action will be determined by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 41: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   The procedure for levying, collecting and enforcing special assessments for
public improvements or other services charged against real property will be
governed by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Chapter XI – MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 41: DEBT
   City indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by State law. A Charter
amendment is not required to authorize City indebtedness.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 42: ORDINANCE CONTINUATION
   All ordinances consistent with this Charter in force when it takes effect
remain in effect until amended or repealed.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 43: REPEAL
   All Charter provisions adopted before this Charter takes effect are
repealed.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 44: SEVERABILITY
   The terms of this Charter are severable. If any provision is held invalid by
a court, the invalidity does not affect any other part of the Charter.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
Section 45: TIME OF EFFECT
   This Charter takes effect November 3, 2009.
(Adopted by electorate 9-20-2007; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-2009)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Amendment of fees
   
10.20   Editing of code
   
10.21   Authority to enforce city ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   Code designated. All ordinances included in this and the following chapters
shall constitute and be designated the "Banks Municipal Code" and will
hereafter be referred to as "Code".
(Ord. 2008-10-01, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Banks, Oregon.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Washington County, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, that
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of that chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 180, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 185,
passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
   (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a statutory reference following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.420
§ 10.19 AMENDMENT OF FEES.
   The Council may amend any fees set forth in this code by resolution.
(Ord. 207-10.100, passed 2-13-2007)
§ 10.20 EDITING OF CODE.
   In preparing the codified edition of ordinance for publication and
distribution the City Attorney shall not alter the sense, meaning, effect or
substance of any ordinance, but, within such limitations may renumber sections
and parts of sections of ordinances, change the wording of headings, rearrange
sections, change reference numbers to agree with the renumbered chapters,
sections or other parts, substitute the proper subsection, section or chapter
or other division numbers, strike out figures or words which are merely
repetitions, change capitalization for the purpose of uniformity, and correct
manifest clerical or typographical errors.
(Ord. 2007-10.101, passed 2-13-2007)
§ 10.21 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE CITY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The city hereby confers municipal police authority on any Washington
County sheriff’s deputy who is performing police duties within the boundaries
of the City of Banks to enforce any provisions of the Banks Code of Ordinances,
including but not limited to the following chapters:
      (1)   
Chapter 37 (Civil Enforcement) and the enforcement of any ordinance provisions
enforceable under
Chapter 37.
      (2)   
Chapter 70 (Traffic Code).
      (3)   
Chapter 90 (Nuisances).
      (4)   
Chapter 91 (Animals).
      (5)   
Chapter 92 (Parks and Recreation).
      (6)   
Chapter 93 (Abandoned Vehicles).
      (7)   
Chapter 130 (General Offenses).
      (8)   
Chapter 150 (General Provisions).
   (B)   This includes the authority to enforce, issue citations for violations
and to prosecute violations in Banks Municipal Court and Washington County
Circuit Court in the name of the City of Banks. This authority shall continue
until affirmatively withdrawn by the city. Washington County sheriff’s deputies
are specifically authorized to issue citations in the name of the City of Banks
for municipal violations, to use City of Banks forms and citations and to
appear and prosecute violations of any and all municipal ordinances in the City
of Banks Municipal Court on behalf of the City of Banks.
(Ord. 2015-07-02, passed 8-11-2015)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $1,000, subject to division (B) of this section.
(Am. Ord. 2007-10.99(A), passed 2-13-2007)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a lesser penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished
by the penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   RESERVED
   
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
   
33.   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
   
34.   LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   
35.   ELECTIONS
   
36.   PROCUREMENT
   
37.   CIVIL ENFORCEMENT
   
38.   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
   
39.   SIGN CODE
   
40.   PARK SERVICES FEE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Annexation Policies and Procedures
   
30.01   Generally
   
30.02   Review criteria
   
30.03   Application requirements
   
30.04   Application review process
   
30.05   Annexation by election
   
30.06   Procedures following election
Administrative Offenses
   
30.20   Reserved
   
30.21   Negotiation of a bad check
Processing Claims
   
30.35   Purpose and policy
   
30.36   Definitions
   
30.37   Non mandatory process: pre-filing and settlement conference
   
30.38   Claim filing procedure & requirements
   
30.39   Staff recommendation - claim review process
   
30.40   Conditions, revocation and transfer
   
30.41   Waiver of claims
   
30.42   Costs and attorney fees
   
30.43   Availability of funds to pay claims
   
30.44   Review of a decision
   
30.45   Private cause of action
   
30.46   Compensation by other
   
30.47   No re-application
   
30.48   Validity of City Council action
   
30.49   Applicable state law, no independent rights
ANNEXATION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose. When annexations are properly timed, they may allow for the
orderly expansion of the City of Banks’ boundaries and may contribute to the
logical extensions of the public infrastructure. The city also recognizes that
the development of lands at an urban density must include the provision of an
adequate level of required urban services such as sewer, water, and roads.
Policies and procedures adopted in this subchapter are intended to carry out
the directives of the citizens of Banks, and to ensure that annexation of lands
to the city is incorporated into a process of providing a timely and orderly
conversion of lands to urban uses.
   (B)   Election required. Upon the Banks City Council’s legislative
determination of an applicant’s eligibility to annex, the Council must set the
matter for a citywide vote. Annexation must be approved by a majority of those
voting.
   (C)   Application for annexation. The applicant must complete the
application form provided by the City of Banks Planning Commission. Application
procedures, including application materials, fees, costs (i.e. staff costs,
election costs, and the like), and filing deadlines are to be established by
resolution of the Council.
   (D)   Urban Planning Area Agreement. Annexation proposals will be consistent
with the policies and provision of the city’s Urban Planning Area Agreement
with Washington County entered into on 10-25-1988 (copy attached as Exhibit A
to Ordinance 102500 and incorporated by reference) or as later amended and the
provisions of any intergovernmental agreement or agreement with any agency
providing public services to the City of Banks or the annexation site.
(Ord. 102500, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 30.02 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   Eligibility criteria. The Council must determine that property is
eligible for annexation based on the following criteria:
      (1)   The property is contiguous to the existing city limits;
      (2)   The property is located within Banks Urban Growth Boundary; and
      (3)   Any other prerequisite requirement that may be applicable under the
Oregon Revised Statutes.
   (B)   Timeliness criteria. The Council must determine that it is timely to
annex property based on the following criteria.
      (1)   An adequate level of urban services and infrastructure is
available, or will be made available in a timely manner.
         (a)   ADEQUATE LEVEL means conforms to adopted plans and ordinances,
or as may be determined by the agency that provides the service or
infrastructure.
         (b)   URBAN SERVICES means police; fire; school facilities; parks and
recreation facilities; greenways and open spaces and other city-provided
services.
         (c)   INFRASTRUCTURE means sanitary sewer, water, storm drainage, and
streets.
         (d)   BE MADE AVAILABLE IN A TIMELY MANNER means that improvements
needed for an adequate level of urban services and infrastructures will be
provided in a logical, economical, and efficient manner and are made available
in accordance with the development agreement or other funding mechanism at the
time of approval. Improvements for the needed infrastructure and urban services
must be secured by a development agreement or other funding mechanism that
places the primary economic burden on the annexed property and not on the city.
      (2)   Sufficient planning and engineering data must be provided, and all
necessary studies and reviews must be completed in such a manner that there are
no unresolved issues regarding development of the annexation property. It may
not be timely to annex property if the appropriateness of the proposed use
could be altered by plans or studies that are underway, or are needed, to
update, clarify, or provide additional specificity to the property use.
Examples of needed studies may include, but are not limited to, public
infrastructure plans, buildable lands inventories, area refinement plans, park
study, or any related planning study pertaining to growth management.
      (3)   The Council may consider, at its discretion, any other factors that
effect the timeliness or wisdom of any particular annexation petition.
      (4)   The burden for providing the findings and cost thereof for this
section and §
30.03 is placed upon the applicant.
(Ord. 102500, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 30.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for annexation must be made on forms provided by the
Commission and must include the following material:
   (A)   Written consent to the annexation signed by the requisite number of
affected property owners, electors, or both within the area to be annexed, as
provided by state law;
   (B)   A metes and bounds legal description or acceptable alternative legal
description of the territory to be annexed as certified by the Washington
County Assessor’s office;
   (C)   The County Assessor’s quarter section map(s) showing the proposed
annexed area and adjacent city territory;
   (D)   General land use plan indicating types and intensities of proposed
development, transportation corridors, watercourses, significant natural
features, open space, freeways and adjoining development;
   (E)   A detailed statement of overall development concept and methods by
which physical and related social environment of the site, surrounding area,
and community will be enhanced;
   (F)   A detailed statement of additional facilities required to meet any
increased demand and a plan for the phasing in of any such facilities in
accordance with the projected demand;
   (G)   A detailed statement outlining method and source of financing required
will be made available in a timely manner to the hearing body to show how the
applicant plans to provide any required additional facilities;
   (H)   A detailed statement of availability, capacity, and status of existing
water, sewer, drainage, transportation, park and school facilities;
   (I)   Comprehensive narrative of potential negative physical, aesthetic, and
related social effects of the proposed development on the community as a whole
and on the smaller subcommunity or neighborhood that it will become a part of;
and proposed actions to mitigate the effects;
   (J)   Narrative demonstrating need for the urban development proposed for
the annexation area; need should be demonstrated based upon a factual analysis
of the following factors:
      (1)   Availability within the current city limits of undeveloped land
designated for proposed urban development;
      (2)   Analysis of immediate, short-term (1 to 5 years) demand for
proposed urban development; and
      (3)   Probable phasing of proposed urban development consistent with
projected demand for the period that the annexation area is expected to be
developed.
   (K)   List of property owners (printed on self-adhesive labels) within 300
feet of the exterior boundary of the annexation property; the list shall be
based on the latest tax assessment records at the Washington County Department
of Assessment and Taxation and legible scale drawing of the site.
(Ord. 102500, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 30.04 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The Commission must hold at least 1 public hearing on the application.
      (1)   Once a completed application, including the appropriate filing fee,
has been filed and accepted by the City Recorder, then the City Planner will
schedule a public hearing to be held by the Commission.
      (2)   Notice of the public hearing must be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city not less than 5 days nor more than 15 days
prior to the date of the public hearing.
      (3)   Written notice of the public hearing regarding the application must
be mailed to all property owners within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of
the property, not less than 20 days prior to the hearing date.
      (4)   Written notice of the public hearing regarding the application must
be mailed to Washington County and the County Community Planning Organization
(CPO 14) not less than 20 days prior to the hearing date.
   (B)   Within 45 days following the public hearing, unless a continuance is
announced, the Commission must make specific findings of fact in accordance
with the review criteria set forth in §
30.02. Based on the findings, the Commission must render a decision that either
recommends that the application be approved and submitted to the voters at the
next available election, as per §
30.05, or denied.
      (1)   If the Commission recommends that the application be granted and
set for election, the Commission must transmit to the Council a copy of the
application, a scale drawing of the site, the minutes of the public hearing,
the decision and findings of the Commission, and any other materials deemed
necessary for the Council to make a decision.
      (2)   If the Commission recommends that the application be denied, no
further proceedings are to be held by either the Commission or the Council,
unless the applicant, the owner, or any other party who has participated in the
public hearing, either in person or in writing, files an appeal within 14 days
of the Commission’s decision.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the Commission’s decision to recommend approval, the
Council must either:
      (1)   Approve the annexation, based on the material in the record and the
findings adopted by the Commission and then if approved by the Council, and set
the matter for election; or
      (2)   Call for a public hearing on the application subject to the
following notice requirements.
         (a)   Notice of the public hearing must be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city not less than 5 days nor more than 15 days
prior to the date of the public hearing.
         (b)   Written notice of the public hearing regarding the application
must be mailed to all property owners within 300 feet of the exterior boundary
of the property, not less than 20 days prior to the hearing.
         (c)   Written notice of the public hearing regarding the application
must be mailed to Washington County and the County Community Planning
Organization (CPO 14) not less than 20 days prior to the hearing date.
   (D)   If an appeal is filed, the Council must hold a public hearing
following the procedures set forth in §
151.176.
(Ord. 102500, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 30.05 ANNEXATION BY ELECTION.
   (A)   All annexation requests approved by the Council must be referred to
the voters at the next available annexation election in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter and O.R.S. Chapter 222.
   (B)   Notice of the annexation election must be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city not more than 30 days nor less than 20 days
prior to the date of the election. The notice must take the form of an
approximate 1/4-page layout, which includes a map of property to be annexed and
unbiased information regarding the annexation.
   (C)   The Council will require that a minimum of 1 sign not greater than 6
square feet in size be posted on the property under consideration for
annexation. The sign must include notice of the annexation election, a map of
the subject property, and unbiased information regarding the annexation.
(Ord. 102500, passed 10-25-2000)
§ 30.06 PROCEDURES FOLLOWING ELECTION.
   (A)   Proclamation of annexation. If the annexation is approved by the
electorate, the Council by ordinance must set the final boundaries of the
annexed area by legal description and proclaim the annexation in accordance
with state law.
   (B)   Filing of annexation records. The Council must report all changes to
the city boundaries to the City Recorder, County Assessor, and the Secretary of
State as required by state law.
(Ord. 102500, passed 10-25-2000)
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
§ 30.20 RESERVED.
§ 30.21 NEGOTIATION OF A BAD CHECK.
   (A)   A person commits the offence of negotiation of a bad check if the
person makes, draws, or utters a check or similar sight order for the payment
of money, knowing that it will not be honored by the drawee.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, unless the check or order is postdated,
it is prima facie evidence of knowledge that the check or order would not be
honored if:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time the check or
order is drawn or uttered; or
      (2)   Payment is refused by the drawee for lack of funds, upon
presentation within 30 days after the date of utterance, and the drawer fails
to make good within 10 days after receiving notice of refusal.
(Ord. 8-10-96, passed 8-14-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROCESSING CLAIMS
§ 30.35 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to accomplish the following regarding
claims for compensation under O.R.S. Chapter 197, as amended by Ballot Measure
37, adopted November 2, 2004: Process claims for compensation quickly, openly,
thoroughly, and consistently with the law; enable present real property owners
making claims for compensation to have an adequate and fair opportunity to
present their claims to the city; provide the city with the factual and
analytical information necessary to adequately and fairly consider claims for
compensation, and take appropriate action under the alternatives provided by
law; preserve and protect limited public funds; preserve and protect the
interests of the community by providing for public input into the process of
reviewing claims; and establish a record of decisions capable of withstanding
legal review.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions apply:
   APPRAISAL. Means a written statement prepared by an appraiser licensed by
the Appraiser Certification and Licensure Board of the State of Oregon under
O.R.S. Chapter 674. For commercial or industrial property, the term APPRAISAL
also means a written statement prepared by an appraiser holding the MAI
qualification and evidenced by written certificate.
   BALLOT MEASURE 37. Means the provisions added to O.R.S. Chapter 197 by
Ballot Measure 37 as approved by Oregon voters on November 2, 2004.
   CITY. Means City of Banks.
   CLAIM. Means the written demand for compensation made by an owner of real
property in accordance with Ballot Measure 37 and this chapter.
   EXCEPTIONS TO LAND USE REGULATION. The following land use regulations are
excluded from the application of this subchapter:
      (1)   A regulation restricting or prohibiting activities commonly and
historically recognized as public nuisances under common law, and the criminal
laws of Oregon and the city; including Ordinance 20.01, Ordinances 30.01 and
40.01 and the criminal laws of Oregon and the City as amended from time to
time.
      (2)   A regulation restricting or prohibiting activities for the
protection of public health and safety such as fire and building codes, health
and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations, and pollution
control regulations;
      (3)   A regulation required for compliance with federal law;
      (4)   A regulation restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for
the purpose of selling pornography or performing nude dancing; or
      (5)   A regulation enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the real
property by the owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject
property prior to acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred
first.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price stated in terms of dollars that a willing buyer
would pay for the property without any obligation to buy from a willing seller
without any obligation to sell, REDUCTION IN FAIR MARKET VALUE means the
difference in the fair market value of the property before and after the
application of the regulation.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Means the wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father,
brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent,
stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the real property, an
estate of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any 1
or combination of these family members or the owner of the real property.
   LAND USE REGULATION. Means any city comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance,
land division ordinance or transportation ordinance. A LAND USE REGULATION does
not include any land use regulation excepted from this chapter, any city system
development charge, or any other city development fees or charges.
   MAYOR. Means the Mayor or Mayor's designee, subject to the approval of the
City Council.
   OWNER. Means the present owner of real property that is the subject of the
claim for compensation, or any interest therein. The owner must be a person who
is the sole fee simple owner of the real property or all joint owners whose
interests add up to a fee simple interest in property including all persons who
represent all recorded interests in property, such as co-owners, holders of
less than fee simple interests, leasehold owners, and security interest
holders.
   PROPERTY. Means any private real property or interest therein. It includes
only a single parcel or contiguous parcels in single ownership. It does not
include any parcels that are under different ownerships, regardless of
contiguity.
   REDUCTION IN VALUE. Means the difference in the fair market value of the
property before and after enactment, enforcement or application of a land use
regulation as defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.37 NON MANDATORY PROCESS: PRE-FILING AND SETTLEMENT CONFERENCE.
   Before submitting a claim for compensation, the owner is encouraged to
schedule and attend a pre-filing conference with the City Planner to discuss
the claim.
   (A)   The pre-filing conference will follow the procedure set forth by the
City Planner and may include other city staff and notice to neighbors, other
organizations and agencies.
   (B)   There will be no fees required for the pre-filing conference and the
costs of the conference will not be billed in any cost accounting.
   (C)   The pre-filing conference is for the owner to provide an oral summary
of the owner's demand to the City Planner, and for the City Planner and staff
to provide general information to the owner about the substantive and
procedural requirements for processing the claim, including applicable land
development regulations that may affect the demand. Copies of applicable
ordinances will be available for inspection and copies will be provided at the
fees established pursuant to the public records policy of the city. The pre-
filing conference is not for the interrogation of city employees by counsel for
the claimant or by the claimant. Public records law does not require employees
to answer questions and such use of this informal conference will not be
tolerated.
   (D)   The pre-filing conference shall have the character of a settlement
conference; statements made by representatives of the city and owner at the
pre-filing conference are not binding on either party, Neither the City Planner
nor other staff are authorized to settle any demand at a pre-filing conference.
Any omission or failure by staff to recite to an owner relevant applicable
regulations will not constitute a waiver or admission by the city. The city
staff cannot advise the claimant regarding their rights or responsibilities
under Measure 37. The claimant will be urged to contact an attorney if they
have questions regarding their rights and responsibilities.
      (1)   As an alternative to a Measure 37 claim, a current owner of real
property who seeks the waiver of a land use regulation may apply to the City
Planner for said waiver on a form which the city shall provide for such
purpose. Upon receipt of an application for waiver pursuant to this section,
the City Planner shall schedule a meeting with the property owner and
appropriate city representatives to review the owner’s claim. If the City
Planner concludes that the property owner is entitled to some form of
compensation or waiver pursuant to the provisions of Measure 37, city staff
will work with the applicant in an effort to agree upon the minimum waiver
which will allow the property owner his or her desired use while minimizing the
negative impact on other properties within the city. Many Measure 37 claims
will require the claimant to file a development application and demonstrate
compliance with development standards not covered by a Measure 37 waiver. The
city may only waive land use regulations that it adopted; it cannot waive land
use regulations adopted by other jurisdictions, i.e., state land use statutes
implemented by the City of Banks. In these cases the applicant will need to
file a claim with the State of Oregon.
      (2)   If the property owner and the City Planner come to an agreement
concerning the property owners entitlement to a Measure 37 waiver and the terms
thereof the owner shall thereafter file a formal Measure 37 claim for a waiver
pursuant to this section which thereafter will be presented to the City Council
as a joint recommendation of the property owner and the City Planner.
      (3)   If the City Council approves the alternative claim resolution, the
application fee provided in §
30.38(B)(1) shall be waived if the applicant submits their alternative claim as
part as part of a standard city land use development application. Land use
development application fees however will not be waived.
   (E)   A pre-filing conference is valid for 6 months from the date it is
held. If no claim is filed within 6 months of the conference, the owner must
schedule and attend another conference before the city will accept a claim for
filing. The City Planner may waive the pre-filing requirements if, in the City
Planner's opinion, a pre-filing conference would serve no purpose.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.38 CLAIM FILING PROCEDURE & REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person seeking to file a claim under this subchapter must be the
present owner of the real property that is the subject of the claim at the time
the claim is submitted. The claim shall be on a form established by the City
Council and shall be filed with the City Recorder. The claim will not be
accepted until found complete. A claim must consist of all materials required
by this section. A claim will not be considered filed under Ballot Measure 37
until the City accepts the claim after the owner of real property fulfills the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   A claim shall include the following information, reports and fee. A
claim shall not be accepted for filing without all of the following :
      (1)   Fee. An application fee to be paid in advance of acceptance for
filing to cover the costs of a completeness review and claim processing. This
fee will be established by City Council resolution. The city shall record its
actual costs for processing the claim, and, in the event that the advance
payment is not sufficient to cover all of the city's costs, then the owner
shall pay the balance owed, if any, upon receipt of a billing statement from
the city. The city may send the owner periodic billing statements. If the owner
does not pay on the billing statements when due, the owner will be deemed to
have abandoned the claim. If the advance fee is more than the amount of the
city's actual costs in processing the claim, then the excess shall be returned
to the owner. This fee shall be established by council resolution. In the event
that the fee is not paid in full, the City of Banks shall have a lien against
any real property owned by the owner(s), and the city may take any enforcement
actions to collect such fee as provided by law.
      (2)   Claim form. A completed claim form supplied by the City Recorder.
      (3)   Identification. The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of
all Owners, and anyone with any interest in the property, including lien
holders, trustees, renters, lessees, and a description of the ownership
interest of each. If the applicant is not the owner, the applicant must submit
a valid power of attorney created by the owner authorizing the applicant to act
on behalf of the owner;
      (4)   Real property description and title report. The address, tax lot,
and legal description of the real property that is the subject of the claim,
together with a title report issued no more than 30 days prior to the
submission of the claim that reflects the ownership interest in the property,
or other documentation reflecting sole ownership of the property by the
claimant, and the date the property was acquired.
      (5)   Copy of existing regulation. The current land use regulation(s)
that the owner making a claim states allegedly restricts the use of the real
property and allegedly causes a reduction in the fair market value of the
subject real property.
      (6)   Copy of prior regulation. A copy of the land use regulation in
existence, and applicable to the real property when the owner became the owner
of the real property, and a copy of the land use regulation in existence
immediately before the regulation was enacted or enforced or applied to the
real property that the owner claims restricts the use of the real property and,
the owner claims, caused a reduction in fair market value due to the -land use
regulation in question being more restrictive.
      (7)   Amount of claim. The amount of the claim, based on the alleged
reduction in value of the real property supported by a copy of an appraisal by
an appraiser licensed by the Appraiser Certification and Licensure Board of the
State of Oregon as defined herein. The appraisal shall indicate the amount of
the alleged reduction in the fair market value of the real property before and
after enactment, enforcement or application of the land use regulation in
question, and explaining the rationale and factors leading to that conclusion.
Any claims valuing over ($10,000, $20,000, $30,000, $50,000) shall require two
appraisals by the owner.
      (8)   Narrative. The owner shall provide a narrative describing the
history of the owner and/or family member's ownership in the real property, the
history of the relevant land use regulations applicable to the claim, and how
the enactment enforcement or application of the land use regulation restricts
the use of the real property, or any interest therein, and has the effect of
reducing the fair market value of the real property, or any interest therein.
      (9)   A statement regarding exceptions. A statement by the real property
owner making the claim of why the land use regulation in question is not an
exempt land use regulation.
         (a)    Commonly and historically recognized public nuisances under
common law;
         (b)   Protection of public health and safety;
         (c)   Regulations required under federal law;
         (d)   Use of property for the purpose of selling pornography or
performing nude dancing; or
         (e)   The subject land use regulation was enacted prior to the date of
the acquisition of the property by the owner, or prior to acquisition by a
family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior to the
acquisition or inheritance by the owner (if family member status is claimed it
must also be addressed in the title report required by division(B)(4) above.)
      (10)   Site plan and drawings. A copy of the site plan and drawings in a
readable, legible 8-1/4- by 11-inch format related to the expected use of the
real property should the land use regulation be modified, removed or not
applied.
      (11)   Copies of leases or covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCR).
Copies of any leases or covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCRs)
applicable to the real property, if any, that impose restrictions on the use of
the property.
      (12)   Nearby property owner information. The names and addresses of all
owners of property within 300 feet of the property, as listed on the most
recent property tax assessment roll where such property is located.
      (13)   Listing of nearby owned property. Identification of any other
property owned by the owner within 300 feet of the boundary of the claim
property.
      (14)   Owner statement. A statement by the owner explaining the effect a
modification, removal or non-application of the land use regulation would have
on the potential development of the property, and stating the most extensive
development the owner believes would be permitted on the property if the
identified land use regulation were modified, removed or not applied.
      (15)   Copies of documents. Copies of any land use actions, development
applications or other applications for permits previously filed in connection
with the property and the action taken, City enforcement or application of the
land use regulation is a prerequisite to making a Measure 37 claim and must be
described and identified by the claimant.
      (16)   Statement of relief sought. A statement of the relief sought by
the owner.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.39 STAFF RECOMMENDATION - CLAIM REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The City Planner will conduct a completeness review within 15 days
after submittal of the claim and will advise the owner in writing of any
material remaining to be submitted. The owner must submit the material needed
for completeness within 30 days of the written notice that additional material
is required. If the owner fails to provide the additional materials within the
30-day period, the claim will not be accepted for filing.
      (1)   The 180-day period required before accrual of a cause of action for
compensation in circuit court under Ballot Measure 37 begins on the date the
City Planner deems the claim complete, and accepts it for filing. The City
Planner will mark the date of completeness and filing on the claim form and
provide a copy to the claimant.
      (2)   The owner may request an extension for filing a complete claim. A
request for an extension or continuance will be deemed a waiver of the
beginning of the 180-day period required before accrual of a cause of action
for compensation.
   (B)   The City Planner, or City Attorney in consultation with the Mayor will
assess any claim for compensation and make a recommendation to the city council
on the disposition of the claim. The recommendation will state that the claim
be:
      (1)   Denied;
      (2)   Investigated further;
      (3)   Declared valid, in which case the recommendation will further state
whether the land use regulation at issue should be removed, waived or modified,
or that the claimant should be compensated; or
      (4)   Evaluated in another manner not inconsistent with this section or
Ballot Measure 37, including possible City condemnation of the property.
   (C)   The City Council will conduct a public hearing before taking final
action on a recommendation from the City Planner and City Attorney in
consultation with the Mayor.
   (D)   Notice of the public hearing will be provided to the claimant and to
all record owners of the subject property, and to all owners of property within
300 feet of the subject property. Additional notice may be sent to the Oregon
Department of Land Conservation and Development, and such others as the city
may designate.
   (E)   The notice will state the date, time and location of the hearing and
will be sent no later than 10 days before the hearing. The notice will describe
the hearing process, and will state how evidence may be submitted.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the public hearing, and no later than 180 days
from the date the claim was filed, the city council will:
      (1)   Determine that the claim does not meet the requirements of this
section and Ballot Measure 37, and deny the claim; or
      (2)   Adopt an order with appropriate findings that supports a
determination that the claim is valid and directs that the claimant be
compensated in an amount set forth in the order, or remove, waive or modify the
challenged land use regulation as applied to the subject property.
   (G)   The City Council's decision to remove, waive or modify a land use
regulation or to compensate the claimant will be based on whether the public
interest would be better served by compensating the owner, or by removing,
waiving or modifying a land use regulation with respect to the subject
property; or any other factors deemed relevant by the City Council.
   (H)   If the City Council removes, waives or modifies a land use regulation,
it may apply the land use regulations in effect at the time the claimant
acquired the property.
   (I)   The owner will bear the burden of proof relating to the claim, the
devaluation of the owner's property and the owner's entitlement to just
compensation. The standard of proof will be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (J)   A copy of the City Council order will be sent by mail to the owner and
to each individual or entity that participated in the City Council review
process if the city was provided with a mailing address.
   (K)   The City Council may establish-by resolution additional procedures
related to the processing of Ballot Measure 37 claims.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.40 CONDITIONS, REVOCATION AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   The City Council may establish any relevant conditions of approval for
compensation, should compensation be granted, or for any other action taken
under this subchapter.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any condition of approval is grounds for
revocation of the approval of the compensation for the claim, grounds for
recovering any compensation paid and grounds for revocation of any other action
taken under this subchapter.
   (C)   If the owner, or the owner's successor in interest, fails to fully
comply with all conditions of approval, the city may institute a revocation or
modification proceeding before the City Council under the same process for city
council review of a claim under this subchapter.
   (D)   Unless otherwise stated in the city's decision, any action taken under
this subchapter runs with the property and is transferred with ownership of the
property. All conditions, time limits or other restrictions imposed with
approval of a claim will bind all subsequent owners of the subject property.
   (E)   A land use regulation waived under this chapter will create a Measure
37 nonconforming use, or a Measure 37 nonconforming structure, as appropriate,
on the property benefitting from the waiver.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.41 WAIVER OF CLAIMS.
   All potential claims that an owner knew or should have known exist as of the
date a claim is submitted must be included in that claim if they are to be
preserved. The property owner waives any potential claim not included.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.42 COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES.
   If an owner commences an action to collect compensation and the city
prevails, the city is entitled to all fees and costs it incurred, as well as
any sum that a court, including any appellate court, may deem reasonable as
attorney's fees.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.43 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO FAY CLAIMS.
   Compensation can only be paid based on the availability and appropriation of
funds for this purpose.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.44 REVIEW OF A DECISION.
   A writ of review under O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.102 is the exclusive means to
obtain judicial review of a final decision of the City Council under this
subchapter and must be filed within 60 days of the date of the order provided
under §
30.39. The owner of the real property that is the subject of the claim under
this subchapter is a necessary party in such a proceeding.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.45 PRIVATE CAUSE OF ACTION.
   If the City Council's removal, modification, or waiver of a land use
regulation reduces the value of other property adjacent to a property that is
the subject of a claim under this chapter, the adjacent property owner(s) are
granted a cause of action in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover from
the claimant the amount of the reduction. In any such action, the adjacent
property owner(s) are entitled to all fees and costs incurred, as well as any
sum that a court, including any appellate court, may deem reasonable as
attorney fees. This section does not create a cause of action against the city.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.46 COMPENSATION BY OTHER.
   An individual or entity other than the city may compensate the claimant for
any diminution in value established under this chapter, in lieu of the city
removing, modifying or waiving the land use regulation causing the diminution.
A contract between the city, the claimant and the individual or entity
providing the compensation is a condition precedent to compensating a claimant
under this section, and must be approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.47 NO RE-APPLICATION.
   If a claim has been granted by the City of Banks or another jurisdiction
based on 1 or more land use regulations on a property or an application is
denied or withdrawn prior to the issuance of a final order by the City Council,
no application for the same or substantially similar compensation claim may be
made by the owner or subsequent owner(s) of the subject property.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.48 VALIDITY OF CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   No failure of any person or body to comply with a procedural requirement set
out in this subchapter shall invalidate any action of the City Council under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
§ 30.49 APPLICABLE STATE LAW, NO INDEPENDENT RIGHTS.
   For all claims filed, the applicable state law is those portions O.R.S.
Chapter 197 added by Ballot Measure 37, or as amended, modified or clarified by
subsequent amendments or rules adopted by the Oregon Legislature or Oregon
administrative agencies. Any claim that has not been processed completely under
this chapter will be subject to any such amendments, modifications,
clarifications or other state actions. This chapter is adopted solely to
address claims filed under the O.R.S. Chapter 197 provisions added by Ballot
Measure 37. This chapter does not create any rights independent of those
provisions.
(Ord. 10.050, passed 1-11-2005)
CHAPTER 31: RESERVED
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Library Board
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Library administration
   
32.03   Public Library Board
   
32.04   Membership of Board
   
32.05   Organization of Board
   
32.06   Meetings, rules and regulations of Board
   
32.07   Annual library budget
   
32.08   Expenditure of funds
   
32.09   Financial interest of Library Board and appointive body compensation
   
32.10   Annual report of Board
   
32.11   Public hearings required prior to abolishing or withdrawing support
from public library
Local Contract Review Board
   
32.15   Local Contract Review Board
Budget Committee
   
32.25   Budget Committee
Planning Commission
   
32.30   Planning Commission
Park, Recreation and Tree Board
   
32.35   Establishment of Board
   
32.36   Membership of Board
   
32.37   Duties of Board
   
32.38   Meetings
   
32.39   Officers
Economic Development Commission
   
32.50   Economic Development Commission
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANKS LIBRARY BOARD. The Board whose powers shall be determined by the
Council.
   BANKS PUBLIC LIBRARY COMMISSION.  The Banks Library Commission is dissolved.
The appointed members of the Commission shall remain on the Banks Library Board
for the remainder of the term they are serving as of May 1, 2010. Board
membership rules and procedures apply for each new member by the Library Board
thereafter.
   CHARTER. The City Charter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council which governs the City Library.
   LIBRARY DIRECTOR. Department Head for the City Library.
   LIBRARY SERVICE AREA. Banks School District #13 area.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 32.02 LIBRARY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Per the Charter, the office of City Manager is the administrative head
of the city. The City Manager is responsible to the Mayor and Council for the
proper administration of all city library business.
   (B)   The City Manager will assist the Mayor, Council, and Banks Library
Board in development with city library policies, and carry out any city library
policies established by ordinances and resolutions.
   (C)   Per Charter, the City Manager appoints, supervises and removes all
city employees including those of the city library.
   (D)   The Library Director as department head is responsible for the day to
day administration of the city library, acting under the City Manager.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 32.03 PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD.
   There is hereby established a Public Library Board, whose primary duty is to
advise and make recommendations to the Mayor, City Council, Library Director
and City Manager regarding the following library policies and issues:
   (A)   Appointment of the library director and staff; fixing their
compensation, determining their working conditions and the prescription of
library staff duties;
   (B)   Formulation and periodic review of rules and policies for the
governance of the library;
   (C)   Preparation and submission of an annual budget to the City Council;
   (D)   Review of all expenditures Item the Library Fund or the Public Library
Building Fund;
   (E)   Acceptance, use or expenditure of any real or personal property or
funds donated to the library or purchase, control or disposal of real and
personal property necessary for the purposes of the library, except that each
donation shall be administered in accordance with its terms, and all property
or funds shall be held in the name of the City of Banks;
   (F)   Review and selection of sites for all public library buildings and
other library facilities;
   (G)   Review and recommendations on contracts and proposals related to the
Library:
   (H)   The Board will hear and consider complaints, comments and suggestions
about city library policies and materials; and
   (I)   The Board will perform all other activities and functions as may from
time to time be assigned by the Mayor, City Council or City Manager.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 32.04 MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD.
   (A)   Members of the Library Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the Council. Board members shall receive no compensation. The
Board shall consist of 5 members appointed for 4-year terms commencing on July
1st in the year of their appointment. At the expiration of any full or partial
term of any member of the Board, the Mayor, with the consent of the Council,
shall appoint a new member or may reappoint a member for a term of 4 years. No
person shall serve as a member of the Board for more than 2 full consecutive
terms in addition to the unexpired portion of a prior term as provided in
division (C) of this section. After an interval of at least 12 months, any
person may be considered for appointed to serve again on the Library Board.
Members of the Board may reside inside and outside the city. At least 1 member
of the Board shall be a resident of the city, and at east 1 member shall be a
Washington County resident who lives outside the city limits and inside the
library’s service area. In addition, the Mayor shall appoint on a revolving
basis 1 City Council member to serve as an ex-officio, nonvoting member of the
Board to communicate City Council policy on matters before the Board and to be
liaison between the City Council and the Board.
   (B)   A Library Board member may be removed by the City Council, after
hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance. Unexcused absences from 3
consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions shall
constitute nonperformance. An excused absence may be obtained by contacting the
Chairperson or Secretary of the Board at least 24 hours prior to any scheduled
Board meeting. No member of the Board may be excused for more than 3 Board
meetings during any calendar year.
   (C)   Should any seat on the Library Board become vacant before the end of
that seat’s term, the Mayor shall appoint and the Council may confirm a person
to serve out the unexpired portion of that term. At the end of that term, the
person appointed to serve-out the unexpired portion of the term may be
considered for appoint to a regular full term, with possible reappointment for
a second full term after that.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 32.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall meet within 30 days after it is established under the
provisions of this chapter for the purpose of electing a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson, both of whom shall be voting members of the Board. The Library
Director shall serve as non-voting Secretary to the Board and keep the record
of its actions. The Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among its members at the first regular meeting of each year.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of all Board proceedings.
The Board shall file a report of all its proceedings with the City Recorder
within 30 days of such proceedings.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 32.06 MEETINGS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS OF BOARD.
   (A)   A majority of the then-appointed Board shall constitute a quorum. A
quorum of the Board is required for the transaction of any business or to
conduct any proceedings before the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt, and may from time to time amend, rules for the
conduct of its meetings and hearings. Any such rules shall be consistent with
any ordinances, resolutions, or laws of the city and the State of Oregon
regulating the Board. Meetings of the Board are subject to the Oregon Open
Public Meetings Act in O.R.S. 192.610 to 192.690. The Board shall convene when
necessary to discharge its duties. However, it shall meet not less than 6 times
within every calendar year. By no later than the first regular meeting of the
Board in January of each calendar year, the Board shall establish regular
meeting dates and the place for the meetings.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 32.07 ANNUAL LIBRARY BUDGET.
   (A)   Each year, the Library Director with the help and review of the
Library Board and the City Manager shall submit a proposed budget to the City
Budget Officer according to the guidelines, ordinances and statutes prescribed
for the Library Department.
   (B)   The proposed budget shall be reviewed in the city budget meeting
process the same as other city department budgets.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 32.08 EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   The Board shall have no authority to make any expenditure of funds on behalf
of the city or to obligate the city for payment of any funds without first
obtaining the approval or resolution stating the purpose of such expenditures.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 32.09 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF LIBRARY BOARD AND APPOINTIVE BODY COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No member of the Library Board shall have any financial interest,
either directly or indirectly, in any contract to which the library is a party,
nor shall receive a salary or any payment for material or services rendered the
Board.
   (B)   Board members may be reimbursed for city approved expenses incurred in
the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 32.10 ANNUAL REPORT OF BOARD.
   The Board shall make an annual report on the activities of the library and
file it to the City Council by October 1 each year on form supplied by the
State Library.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 32.11 PUBLIC HEARINGS REQUIRED PRIOR TO ABOLISHING OR WITHDRAWING SUPPORT
FROM PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   Consistent with O.R.S. 357.621, the City Council may not abolish or withdraw
support for the city library without first holding at least 2 public hearings
on the matter at least 90 days apart. The Council must give public notice of
the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the area for 2
successive weeks at east 30 days prior to the first hearing.
(Ord. 2010-05-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD
§ 32.15 LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD.
   The Banks City Council is the Local Contract Review Board. The Contract
Review Board of the City of Banks (CRB) adopts by reference O.R.S. Chapters
279A–279C as the rules under which the CRB shall operate along with following
the Attorney General’s Model Public Contract Rules Manual. The Board may adopt
new rules by a majority vote if such rule is unlikely to encourage favoritism
or substantially diminish competition and the new rule will result in a cost
savings for the city.
(Am. Ord. 2007-32.15–2007-32.25, passed 2-13-2007)
BUDGET COMMITTEE
§ 32.25 BUDGET COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Budget Committee is hereby established by the city under the
provisions of O.R.S. 294.331.
   (B)   The Budget Committee will consist of the members of the governing body
and a number, equal to the number of members of the governing body, of electors
of the municipal corporation appointed by the governing body; if there are
electors fewer than the number required, the governing body and the electors
who are willing to serve shall be the Budget Committee; and if there are no
electors willing to serve, the governing body shall be the Budget Committee.
   (C)   The members of the Budget Committee shall receive no compensation for
their services as members of the Budget Committee.
   (D)   Appointive members of the Budget Committee may not be officers, agents
or employees of the city.
   (E)   Appointive members of a Budget Committee shall be appointed for terms
of 3 years beginning on January 1 of the year appointed and running until
December 31 of the third year appointed. The terms shall be staggered so that,
as near as practicable, one-third of the terms of the appointive members end
each year. The appointed positions shall be numbered BC1 through BC7.
   (F)   If any appointive member is unable to serve the term for which the
member was appointed, or an appointive member resigns prior to completion of
the term for which the member was appointed, the City Council shall fill the
vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term.
   (G)   The Budget Committee shall at its first meeting after its appointment
elect a presiding officer from among its members.
   (H)   The City Manager shall be the budget officer responsible for preparing
the budget document. The budget officer shall act under the direction of the
Mayor.
   (I)   Duties. The Budget Committee is responsible for the review of the
city’s annual budget. In reviewing the annual budget, the committee makes
recommendations to the City Council on funding levels for city services.
(Ord. 2008-02-05, passed 2-12-2008; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.30 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Banks Planning Commission pursuant to
O.R.S. 227.010 to 227.090, which shall exercise any of the authority or duties
provided by state law as the City Council may prescribe. The Planning
Commission shall review and decide upon quasi-judicial land use applications
for property within the city’s corporate boundaries and for land within the
city’s urban growth boundary as the Council may provide through
intergovernmental agreement with Washington County. Additionally, the Planning
Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council on any proposed
quasi-judicial zone changes or comprehensive plan amendments and any
legislative amendments to the city’s land use regulations and Comprehensive
Plan.
   (B)   Membership. Members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of 7 voting members, at least
5 of whom shall reside within the city to be eligible to serve. The remaining 2
voting members of the Planning Commission shall meet at least 1 of the
following sets of conditions:
         (a)   Reside upon or own real property or own a business within the
City of Banks and live within Washington County; or
         (b)   Reside upon or own real property or own a business within the
Banks Urban Growth Boundary and live within Washington County; or
         (c)   Reside upon or own real property or own a business within the
designated Banks Urban Reserve Area and live within Washington County.
      (2)   Voting members shall meet these requirements at the lime of
nomination, appointment and throughout their tenure on the Planning Commission.
All members of the Planning Commission holding office on the effective date of
this section shall be entitled to continue to serve out the duration of their
current term, but shall comply with the requirements of this section to be
eligible for any subsequent term on the Planning Commission.
      (3)   No more than 2 voting members shall be engaged principally in the
buying, selling or developing of real estate for profit as individuals, or be
the members of any partnership, or officers or employees of any corporation,
that is engaged principally in the buying, selling or developing of real estate
for profit. No more than 2 voting members shall be engaged in the same kind of
business trade or profession, as determined by the City Council.
      (4)   Terms and term limits. Planning Commission members are appointed
for a term of 3 years. No person shall hold appointment as a member of the
Planning Commission for more than 2 full consecutive terms, in addition to the
unexpired portion of a prior term as provided in this subsection. After an
interval of at least 3 months, any person may be considered for reappointment
to serve again on the Planning Commission. Should any seat on the Planning
Commission become vacant before the end of that seat’s term, the Mayor shall
appoint and the Council may confirm a person to serve out the unexpired portion
of that term. At the end of that term, the person appointed to serve-out the
unexpired portion of the term may be considered for appoint to a regular full
term, with possible reappointment for a second full term after that.
   (C)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from among
its members at its first meeting each year to preside over its meetings. The
City Clerk/Recorder shall serve as Secretary to the Commission and shall take
minutes of all meetings, prepare and issue notices and manage correspondence
and the records of the Commission.
   (D)   Commission meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet at least once
a month, at a time and place to be fixed by the Commission. Meetings of the
Planning Commission are open to the public and subject to the Oregon Open
Public Meetings Act in O.R.S. 192.610 to 192.690 in addition to the procedural
requirements of O.R.S. 197.763 and O.R.S. 227.175. A notice and agenda of
upcoming Commission meetings shall be posted at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting at City Hall and at the other places as may be- determined by the
Commission.
(Ord. 2013-06-02, passed 6-11-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016; Am.
Ord. 2020- 06-01, passed 7-14-2020)
PARK, RECREATION AND TREE BOARD
§ 32.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD.
   This subchapter establishes the Park, Recreation and Tree Board for the
purpose of advising and making recommendations to the City Council on matters
related to the city’s parks and trees on city property, in and adjacent to
public ways.
(Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-12-01, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.36 MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of 5 members, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor, subject to confirmation and removal by the City Council. The City
Arborist, if one exists, and the City Manager or the Manager’s designee shall
serve as staff advisors to the Board. Whenever possible, persons will be
appointed who have demonstrated interest, experience, or expertise in some
areas of parks, recreation, or trees. To be eligible to serve, members must be
residents of the City of Banks.
   (B)   The 5 positions shall continue and be replaced and refilled in
accordance with this section. Persons appointed to the Parks, Recreation and
Tree Board shall serve a 2-year term.
   (C)   Each Board member serves at the pleasure of the City Council and may
be removed by vote of the Council before the end of the Board member’s term for
any reason.
   (D)   The Mayor shall appoint an eligible person to fill any vacancy on the
Board to complete the unexpired term of open position.
   (E)   No Board member shall receive compensation or incur expenses of any
kind unless the expenses or expenditures have first been approved by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2018-06-01, passed 8-14-2018; Am.
Ord. 2022-12-01, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.37 DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board shall be responsible for but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Assist city staff by:
      (1)   Studying, investigating, planning, advising, and recommending
action the Board determines to be necessary or advisable for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs and other landscaping in public parks, on public land and along
public ways;
      (2)   Ongoing parks and recreation planning for both individual parks and
periodic master planning and developing and implementing policies and plans to
protect, restore and enhance these resources;
      (3)   Maintaining current information about park and natural resource
conditions and recreation activities and programs; and
      (4)   Undertaking an ongoing program of public outreach and education to
promote public understanding of the city’s urban forest and public adherence to
the standards and procedures established under this subchapter.
   (B)   Advise the City Council on:
      (1)   Use and management of the city’s parks and playing fields for the
sporting, cultural, and social enjoyment of the citizens of the city;
      (2)   Future development plans for city parks;
      (3)   Create new events for city parks and work with staff to identify
and secure funding for park events; and
      (4)   Park funding, use, planning, acquisition, development and
maintenance.
(Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-12-01, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.38 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall convene when necessary to discharge its duties but not
less than 4 times each calendar year.
   (B)   A majority of voting Board members shall constitute a quorum, not less
than a quorum of the Board may transact any business or conduct proceedings
before the Board.
   (C)   The Board may adopt rules and regulations to govern its actions.
   (D)   All meetings are open to the public and shall be subject to the
requirements of the Oregon Public Meetings Law.
   (E)   The Board shall prepare minutes of each meeting in coordination with
the City Recorder.
(Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-12-01, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.39 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Board shall elect a chair and vice chair from among its members at
its first meeting each year to preside over its meetings. The City Clerk/
Recorder shall serve as Secretary to the Board and shall take minutes of all
meetings, prepare and issue notices and manage correspondence and the records
of the Board.
   (B)   When the chair is absent, the vice chair shall assume the
responsibilities of the chair as chair pro tem. If the office of the chair
becomes vacant, the vice chair shall become the chair and shall call an
election of the remaining Board members to fill the balance of the vice chair’s
unexpired term.
(Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-04-01, passed 5-10-2016; Am.
Ord. 2022-12-01, passed 1-10-2023)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 32.50 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There is established the Banks Economic Development
Commission (EDC), which shall operate in accordance with the provisions of
state law, the provisions of this section and advise the City Council on
matters set forth herein.
   (B)   Purpose. The following shall be the purposes of the EDC, in addition
to other purposes that the City Council may assign from time to time.
      (1)   Convene public meetings to evaluate economic development policy,
plans and proposals and to gather public input, testimony and relevant
information on such matters.
      (2)   Formulate recommendations to the City Council regarding advisable
economic development policies, plans and proposals that are consistent with the
advancement of economic growth, development and prosperity for the greatest
number of Banks residents in the long run.
      (3)   Work to create and promote a Banks Economic Development Strategic
Plan.
   (C)   Responsibilities and objectives. The EDC shall be guided by and
endeavor to accomplish the following objectives in addition to any others so
adopted by the EDC or assigned by the City Council:
      (1)   To design, develop and promote an economic development strategic
plan.
      (2)   To provide oversight and review of economic development marketing
strategies and products.
      (3)   To enhance communication and understanding of economic development
strategies, and build relationships between the City of Banks public sector,
community, and business community.
      (4)   To act as a forum for sharing information on best economic
development practices, current issues, and resources available for communities
and businesses.
      (5)   To encourage connections and coordination with other regional,
state, and national organizations working for the benefit of economic growth
and enhancement of the Banks area economy.
      (6)   To respond to additional matters relating to economic development
as requested by the City Council.
   (D)   Organization and structure.
      (1)   Membership. Members of the EDC shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council as follows:
         (a)   Membership of the EDC shall consist of a maximum of 9 voting
members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. No more than
2 members of the Planning Commission shall serve on the EDC at any one time.
         (b)   Members shall live, work in or have tangible business
connections to the City of Banks and city’s economic development.
         (c)   Membership shall represent the private-for-profit, not-for
profit, public sectors and private citizens, including those with the following
interests:
            1.   Members with background in economics and business;
            2.   Members who represent a wide range of business sectors and
types in Banks; and
            3.   Members with demonstrated leadership, commitment and
expertise.
         (d)   Any elected officials serving on the EDC shall sit as ex officio
(non-voting) members of the EDC. Additional ex officio members may be
designated by the City Council from relevant organizations, and the business
community may also be invited to participate in EDC meetings and work sessions
as the Council directs or the EDC deems appropriate.
         (e)   Members of the EDC shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the City Council for three-year terms. Members may be reappointed for
successive terms upon written request, reappointment by the Mayor, and
reconfirmation by the Council.
         (f)   Members absent from 3 consecutive meetings without a
satisfactory excuse may be considered for removal and their seat declared
vacant. In that event, the EDC chair will present a written recommendation to
the City Council for action.
      (2)   Officers. The EDC shall elect the following officers from among
those members sitting:
         (a)   The EDC shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair in the January
meeting each year.
         (b)   The duties and powers of the officers of the EDC, who shall be
elected annually in January, shall be as follows:
            1.   The Chair shall be responsible for the following:
               a.    Preside at all meetings of the EDC and maintain decorum;
               b.    Development of a written agenda in sufficient time to
allow for distribution to the EDC;
               c.   Call special meetings of the EDC in accordance with these
rules;
               d.   See that all actions of the EDC are properly taken;
               e.    Present the EDC views, recommendations or actions to the
City Council and any other appropriate body as designated by the Mayor, City
Council; and
               f.   Co- sign official documents of the EDC with the Banks City
Recorder.
            2.   During absence, disability, or disqualification of the Chair,
the Vice Chair shall exercise or perform the duties of the Chair.
         (c)   The City Recorder shall serve as the recording secretary and
clerk to the EDC, but shall not be a member of the EDC. The clerk shall perform
the following functions for the EDC:
            1.   Keep summary minutes of all meetings of the EDC;
            2.   Give or serve all notices required by law or required by these
rules and state law;
            3.   Prepare the agenda of all meetings of the EDC;
            4.   Be the custodian of all EDC records;
            5.   Inform the EDC members of correspondence relating to business
of the EDC and attend to such correspondence;
            6.   Co-sign official documents of the EDC with the Chair.
   (E)   Meeting procedures, quorum and voting.
      (1)   The EDC shall hold regularly scheduled public meetings at least
once per month. The clerk shall remind members by written notice including
electronic means such as email at least 5 days prior to the scheduled meetings.
The notice will include the date, time, location and agenda for the meeting and
shall be posted and publicized in the same manner as any other public meeting.
Summary minutes shall be taken for all meetings and shall be available for
viewing by anyone, on request. Minutes shall be distributed to all members and
others expressing an interest in receiving them.
      (2)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Chair or upon
request of at least 3 EDC members, but not without at least 24-hour notice.
      (3)   EDC meetings shall be noticed and conducted in compliance with the
Oregon Open Meetings Act in O.R.S. 192.610 to 192.710, and its documents,
correspondence and other documents shall be public records subject to the
Oregon Public Records Act in O.R.S. 192.010 to 192.607.
      (4)   A majority of current sitting EDC members entitled to vote shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
      (5)   Robert’s Rules of Order shall guide the EDC in all cases not
otherwise provided for in these rules. All final determination of procedure
shall be the responsibility of the Chair.
      (6)   Matters referred to the EDC by the City Council shall be placed on
the calendar for consideration and action at the first regular meeting of the
EDC after that referral, providing that an appropriate amount of time is
allowed for any required public notice.
      (7)   The EDC may create committees and subcommittees, which shall meet
as directed by the EDC Chair.
      (8)   The EDC Chair shall have full voting privileges on any matter
coming before the EDC. A majority of votes cast is required to pass any motion.
      (9)   A report of the EDC activities shall be made to City Council each
month.
   (F)   Operational rules. The EDC may adopt and from time to time amend
additional operational rules consistent with this section, the Banks City
Charter, any requirements adopted by the City Council, and applicable state
law.
(Ord. 2015-11-01, passed 12-8-2015; Am. Ord. 2021-10-01, passed 11-9-2021)
CHAPTER 33: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Scope
   
33.03   Definitions
   
33.04   Systems development charge established
   
33.05   Methodology
   
33.06   Authorized expenditures
   
33.07   Expenditure restrictions
   
33.08   Capital improvement plan
   
33.09   Collection of charge
   
33.10   Exemptions
   
33.11   Credits
   
33.12   Segregation and use of SDC revenue
   
33.13   Appeals and procedure
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to implement all of the authority provided by ORS
223.297 through 223.314 adopt and impose system development charges (SDC) on
new development that create or increase the demand for public water, waste
water treatment, stormwater, transportation, and parks and recreation services
and facilities. The purpose of the SDC is to create a fund to pay for the
installation, construction, extension and expansion of capital improvements in
these public facilities and systems and to impose an equitable share of the
cost of these capital improvements on the developments that create the need
for, or increase the demand on them.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.02 SCOPE.
   The SDC created and imposed by this chapter is separate from, and in
addition to, any applicable tax, assessment, charge, fee in lieu of assessment,
or fee otherwise provided by law or imposed as a condition of development. A
SDC is to be considered in the nature of a charge for service rendered, a
service hookup charge or a charge for services to be rendered.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Facilities or assets used for:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment and distribution;
      (2)   Sanitary sewer collection, transmission, treatment and disposal;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation, including but not limited to streets, sidewalks,
bike paths, street lights, street trees, mass public transportation, vehicle
parking and bridges; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation, including but not limited to mini-
neighborhood parks, neighborhood parks, community parks and other recreational
facilities.
   CITY RECORDER. The duly appointed City Recorder of the City of Banks or that
person's designee.
   DEVELOPMENT. Constructing a building or a structure, conducting a mining
operation, making a physical change in the use or appearance of a structure or
land, dividing land into 2 or more parcels (including partitions and
subdivisions), and creating or terminating a right of access.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
33.04 of this chapter.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or scenic or preservation purpose.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that is occupied
or may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that includes
the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision or other
development regulations.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. A capital improvement that is required as a
condition of development approval, identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
33.08 of this chapter, and is either:
      (1)   Not located on or contiguous to the property that is the subject of
development approval; or
      (2)   Located in whole or in part on, or contiguous to, the property that
is the subject of development approval and is required to be built larger or
with greater capacity than is necessary for the particular development project
to which the improvement fee is related.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
33.04.
   SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE or SDC. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee
or a combination thereof assessed or collected at any of the times specified in
§
33.09. It shall also include that portion of a water or sanitary sewer system
connection charge that is greater than the amount necessary to reimburse the
city for its average cost of inspection and installing connections with water
and sanitary sewer facilities. SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees
assessed or collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in
lieu of a local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision. An SDC imposed under
this chapter is also in addition to any connection fees that may be charged for
the connection to a public service or facility.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.04 SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   SDCs for each type of capital improvement shall be established and may
be revised from time to time by resolution of the Council. The resolution shall
set the amount of the charge, the type of permit to which the charge applies,
the methodology used to set the amount of the charge, and if the charge applies
to a geographic area smaller than the entire city, the geographic area subject
to the charge.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this chapter or any
other applicable local or state law, a SDC is hereby imposed upon all
development within the city, and upon all development outside the boundary of
the city that connects to, or otherwise uses, the water, sanitary sewer,
drainage and flood control, transportation or parks and recreation facilities
of the city. SDCs shall be due and payable at the point in time at which the
development imposes new or increased demand upon these public improvements or
upon issuance of a building permit, which ever occurs first.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.05 METHODOLOGY. 
   (A)   The methodology used to establish the reimbursement fee shall be based
on ratemaking principles employed to finance publicly owned capital
improvements, prior contributions by then-existing users, gifts or grants from
federal or state government or private persons, the value of unused capacity
available to future system users or the cost of the existing facilities, and
other relevant factors identified by the City Council. The methodology shall
promote the objective that future systems users shall contribute no more than
an equitable share of the cost of then-existing facilities and shall be
available for public inspection.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee shall
demonstrate consideration of the projected cost of capital improvements
identified in the plan and list adopted pursuant to §
33.08 that are needed to increase the capacity of the systems to which the fee
is related and for which the need for increased system capacity will be
required to serve the demands placed on the system by future users. Improvement
fees shall be calculated to obtain the cost of capital improvements for the
projected need for available system capacity for future users.
   (C)   The methodology shall also provide for a credit as authorized in §
33.11.
   (D)   Except when authorized in methodology adopted under §
33.05(C), any fees imposed or required to be paid, assessed or collected as
part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a local improvement
district assessment, or the cost of complying with requirements or conditions
imposed by a land use decision are separate from and in addition to the SDC and
shall not be used as a credit against an SDC.
   (E)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee or the
reimbursement fee, or both, shall be adopted by resolution by the Council.
   (F)   After the effective date of this chapter, the city shall maintain a
list of persons who have made a written request for notification prior to
adoption or amendment of a methodology for any SDC. Written notice shall be
mailed to persons on the list at least 90 days prior to the first hearing to
establish or modify a SDC, and the methodology supporting the adoption or
amendment shall be available at least 60 days prior to the first hearing to
adopt or amend. The failure of a person on the list to receive a notice that
was mailed shall not invalidate the city's subsequent action. The city may
periodically delete names from the list, but at least 30 days prior to removing
a name from the list the city must notify the person whose name is to be
deleted that a new written request for notification is required if the person
wishes to remain on the notification list. A change in the amount of a
reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is not a modification of the SDC
methodology if the change in amount is based on a change in cost of materials,
labor or real property applied to projects or project capacity as set forth on
the list adopted pursuant to §
33.08 or the periodic application of 1 or more specific cost indices published
by a recognized organization or agency and is incorporated as part of the
established methodology or identified and adopted in a separate ordinance,
resolution, or order.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.06 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees. Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to
capital improvements (and not operating expenses) associated with the systems
for which the fees are assessed, including expenditures relating to repayment
of indebtedness.
   (B)   Improvement fees. 
      (1)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing capital
improvements, including expenditures relating to repayment of debt for the
improvements. An increase in system capacity may be established if a capital
improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by existing
facilities or provides new facilities. The portion of the improvements funded
by improvement fees must be related to the need for increased capacity to
provide service for future users.
      (2)   A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
33.08.
      (3)   Notwithstanding §§
33.06(B)(1) and (2), SDC revenues may be expended on the costs of complying
with the provisions of subsections §
33.06(B)(1), including the costs of developing systems development charge
methodologies and providing an annual accounting of systems development charge
expenditures.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.07 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   SDCs shall not be expended for:
   (A)   Costs associated with the construction of administrative office
facilities that are more than an incidental part of other capital improvements;
or
   (B)   Costs of the operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.08 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The Council shall adopt a capital improvement plan that:
   (A)   Lists the capital improvements that may be funded with improvement fee
revenues;
   (B)   Lists the estimated cost, and percentage of costs eligible to be
funded with revenues from the improvement fee for each improvement; and
   (C)   Describes the process for modifying the plan. If a SDC will be
increased by a proposed modification of the list to include a capacity
increasing capital improvement, the city shall provide, at least 30 days prior
to the adoption of the modification, notice of the proposed modification to the
persons who have requested written notice under §
33.05. The city shall hold a public hearing if a written request for a hearing
on the proposed modification is received within 7 days of the date the proposed
modification is scheduled for adoption.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.09 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The SDC is payable upon issuance of:
      (1)   A building or construction permit of any kind, including any permit
or permits issued in connection with the set-up or installation of any trailer,
mobile or manufactured home;
      (2)   A development permit;
      (3)   A development permit for development not requiring the issuance of
a building permit;
      (4)   A permit to connect to the water system;
      (5)   A permit to connect to the sanitary sewer system;
      (6)   A permit to connect to the drainage and flood control system; or
      (7)   A permit to connect to the transportation system.
   (B)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the water,
sanitary sewer, drainage and flood control or transportation systems without an
appropriate permit, the SDC shall be immediately due and payable upon the
earliest date that a permit was required.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall collect the applicable SDC from the person
responsible for or receiving the benefit of the development in accordance with
division (A) above. The City Recorder shall not issue such permit or allow such
connection until the charge has been paid in full, or unless an exemption is
granted pursuant to §
33.10, or unless arrangements for payment of the charge, under such terms as
the City Recorder deems reasonable, have been made, pursuant to division (D),
which follows.
   (D)   The obligation to pay the unpaid SDC and interest thereon shall be
secured by property, bond, deposits, letter of credit or other security
acceptable to the City Recorder. The net value of security accepted, excluding
liens and encumbrances thereon, must be at least double the amount of the SDC
secured thereby.
   (E)   If the SDC is not paid upon issuance of the applicable permit, and the
applicant chooses to pay the charge in installments and secure the obligation
with security acceptable under division (D) above, then there shall be added to
the amount owing the following:
      (1)   Interest on the obligation at the prevailing state statutory rate
of interest;
      (2)   All costs associated with processing the particular form of
security, such as title insurance, escrow fees, recording costs, collection
escrow costs and/or any other expense associated with the city accepting such
security;
      (3)   Any and all costs, as determined by the City Recorder, incurred in
establishing payment schedules and administering the collections process;
      (4)   When the charge is secured by bond pursuant to ORS 223.205-223.295,
any and all costs associated with administering the bond assessment program and
issuing the bonds, as determined by the City Recorder;
      (5)   The intent of this division (E) is to recognize that the payment of
an SDC by installments increases the administrative expense to the city. It is
the intent of this division to shift that added expense to the applicant, so
that the city will not lose SDC revenue by accepting installment payments on
such charges. Subject to the provisions of division (E), all costs added to the
SDC will be determined by the City Recorder.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are exempt from SDC:
      (1)   Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit. Dwelling unit means any building or portion
thereof that contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation;
      (2)   An alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not
increase the parcel's or structure's use of the system to which the systems
development charge applies;
   (B)   Any enlargement or change and any new connection or utilization of the
system to which a SDC applies shall not be exempt.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.11 CREDITS.
   (A)   A SDC shall be imposed when a change of use of a parcel or structure
occurs, but credit shall be given in an amount equal to the existing SDC as
applied to the preexisting type and level use. The credit so computed shall not
exceed the calculated SDC. No refund shall be made on account of such credit.
   (B)   An improvement fee credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified
public improvement associated with a development, subject to the following:
      (1)   Such credit shall be only for the improvement fee charged for the
type of improvement being constructed, and credit for qualified public
improvements under §
33.03 may be granted only for the cost of that portion of such improvement that
exceeds the city's minimum standard facility size or capacity needed to serve
the particular development property or project. The applicant shall have the
burden of demonstrating that a particular improvement qualifies as a §
33.03 qualified public improvement.
      (2)   When the construction of a qualified public improvement gives rise
to a credit amount greater than the improvement fee that would otherwise be
levied against the project receiving development approval, the excess credit
may be applied against improvement fees that accrue in subsequent phases of the
original development project, if any.
      (3)   Credits shall be used within 10 years from the date the credit is
given, after which the credit shall expire, and be null and void, without the
need for the city to take any further action.
      (4)   Credit shall not be transferable from one development to another
nor from one type of capital improvement to another.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.12 SEGREGATION AND USE OF SDC REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a particular type of SDC are to be segregated
by accounting practices from all other funds of the city. That portion of the
SDC calculated and collected on account of a specific facility system shall be
used for no purpose other than those set forth in §
33.06.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall provide the City Council with an annual
accounting, based on the city's fiscal year, for SDCs showing the total amount
of systems development charge revenues collected for each type of facility and
the projects funded from each account.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 33.13 APPEALS AND PROCEDURE.
   A person aggrieved by a decision required or allowed to be made by the City
Recorder under this chapter or a person challenging the propriety of an
expenditure of SDC revenues may appeal the decision or the expenditure to the
City Council by filing a written request with the City Recorder describing with
particularity the decision of the City Recorder or the expenditure from which
the person appeals.
   (A)   Appeal of an Expenditure.  An appeal of an expenditure must be filed
within 2 years of the date of the alleged improper expenditure. The Council
shall determine whether the City Recorder's decision or the expenditure is in
accordance with this chapter and the provisions of ORS 223.297 to 223.314 and
may affirm, modify or overrule the decision. If the Council determines that
there has been an improper expenditure of SDC revenues, the Council shall
direct that a sum equal to the misspent amount shall be deposited within 1 year
to the credit of the account or fund from which it was spent.
   (B)   Appeal of an SDC Methodology. Legal action challenging the methodology
adopted by the Council pursuant to §
33.05 shall not be filed later than 60 days after the date of adoption, and
shall be contested according to the procedure set forth in ORS 34.010 to
34.100, and not otherwise.
   (C)   Appeal of an SDC Calculation or Credit Determination. Legal action
challenging an SDC calculation or a SDC credit determination shall be filed
with the City Recorder no later than 14 days following the date of the
challenged SDC calculation or SDC credit determination. Only the applicant may
appeal an SDC calculation or SDC credit determination, and the City Council
shall determine whether the Recorder's decision with regard to the SDC
calculation or SDC credit determination was consistent with the requirements of
this chapter, the applicable methodology and ORS 223.297 through 223.314. The
appellant has the burden of demonstrating with particularity, based on credible
professional reports, that the rate established in the applicable SDC
methodology does not accurately reflect this particular development's impact on
the city's public facility at issue. With regard to a challenge to an SDC
credit determination, the appellant has the burden of providing credible cost
estimates, certified by an appropriate professional, demonstrating that the
qualified public improvement offered for credit is in fact a "qualified public
improvement" and has a higher value or larger increment of overcapacity than
the City Recorder had determined.
(Ord. 2019-12-01, passed 1-14-2020)
CHAPTER 34: LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
34.01   Initiating improvements
   
34.02   Engineer’s report
   
34.03   Action on Engineer’s report
   
34.04   Resolution and notice of hearing
   
34.05   Manner of doing work
   
34.06   Hearing
   
34.07   Calls for bids
   
34.08   Assessment method and alternative methods of financing
   
34.09   Assessment ordinance
   
34.10   Notice of assessment
   
34.11   Lien record and foreclosure proceedings
   
34.12   Error in assessment calculation
   
34.13   Supplemental assessments
   
34.14   Rebates
   
34.15   Remedies
   
34.16   Abandonment of proceedings
   
34.17   Curative provisions
   
34.18   Reassessment
§ 34.01 INITIATING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   When the Council considers it necessary to require that improvements
to a street, sewer, water, sidewalk, parking, curbing, drain, or other public
improvement defined in O.R.S. 223.387 be paid for in whole or in part by
special assessment according to benefits conferred, the Council shall declare
by resolution that it intends to make the improvement and direct the City
Engineer to make a survey of the improvement and file a written report with the
Recorder.
   (B)   When owners of 2/3 of the property that will benefit by improvements
defined in division (A) above request by written petition that the Council
initiate an improvement, the Council shall declare by resolution that it
intends to make the improvement and direct the City Engineer to make a survey
of the improvement and file a written report with the Recorder.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.02 ENGINEER’S REPORT.
   Unless the Council directs otherwise, the Engineer’s report shall contain
the following:
   (A)   A map or plat showing the general nature, location, and extent of the
proposed improvement and the land to be assessed for payment of the cost;
   (B)   Plans, specifications, and estimates of work to be done. If the
proposed project is to be carried out in cooperation with another governmental
agency, the Engineer may adopt plans, specifications, and estimates of that
agency;
   (C)   An estimate of probable cost of the improvement, including legal,
administrative, and engineering costs;
   (D)   An estimate of unit cost of the improvement to the benefitted
properties, per square foot, per front foot, or another unit of cost;
   (E)   A recommendation concerning the method of assessment to be used to
arrive at a fair apportionment of the whole or a portion of the cost of the
improvement to benefitted properties;
   (F)   A description of each lot, parcel of land, or portion of land to be
benefitted, with names of the record owners and, when readily available, names
of contract purchasers as shown on books and records of the Washington County
Tax Department. To describe each lot or parcel of land under provisions of this
section, it shall be sufficient to use the tax account number assigned to the
property by the tax department or the book and page designations shown on books
and records of the Washington County Clerk; and
   (G)   A recommendation on the rate of interest to be paid on assessments
bonded under the Bancroft Bonding Act and O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.03 ACTION ON ENGINEER’S REPORT.
   After the engineer’s report is filed with the Recorder, the Council may by
resolution approve the report, modify the report, and approve it as modified,
require the engineer to supply additional or different information for the
improvement, or abandon the improvement.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.04 RESOLUTION AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   After the Council has approved the Engineer’s report as submitted or
as modified, the Council shall declare by resolution that it intends to make
the improvement and direct the Recorder to give notice of the Council’s intent
by 2 publications, 1 week apart, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   That the report of the Engineer is on file in the office of the
Recorder and is subject to public examination;
      (2)   That the Council will hold a public hearing on the proposed
improvement on a specified date, which shall be not less than 10 days after the
first publication of notice, at which objections and remonstrances to the
improvement will be heard by the Council, and that the improvement will be
(abandoned or suspended for not less than 6 months if written remonstrances are
filed before or during the hearing by owners of 2/3 of the property to be
assessed;
      (3)   A description of the property to be benefitted by the improvement,
owners of the property as shown on books and records of the Washington County
Tax Department, and the Engineer’s estimate of total cost of the improvement to
be paid by special assessments to benefitted properties. For purposes of this
section, it shall be sufficient to describe the property to be benefitted by
the tax account number assigned to the property and used by the Washington
County Tax Department or the book and page designations shown on books and
records of the Washington County Clerk.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.05 MANNER OF DOING WORK.
   The Council may provide in the improvement resolution that the construction
work may be done in whole or in part by the city, by contract, by another
governmental agency, or by a combination thereof.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.06 HEARING.
   If written remonstrances are less than the amount required to suspend or
defeat the proposed improvement, the Council may by motion, at the time of the
hearing or within 60 days thereafter, on the basis of written remonstrances and
oral objections, order the improvement carried out in accordance with the
resolution or, if the project was initiated by Council motion and not by
petition of property owners, abandon the improvement.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.07 CALLS FOR BIDS.
   The Council may direct the Recorder to advertise for bids for construction
of all or part of the improvement project. If part of the improvement work is
to be done under contract bids, the Council shall proceed in accordance with
procedures of state law for public contracting.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.08 ASSESSMENT METHOD AND ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF FINANCING.
   (A)   The Council, in adopting a method of assessing the cost of the
improvement, may:
      (1)   Use any just and reasonable method to determine the extent of an
improvement district consistent with the benefits derived;
      (2)   Use any just and reasonable method to apportion the sum to be
assessed among the benefitted properties; and/or
      (3)   Authorize payment by the city of all or part of the cost of an
improvement when in the opinion of the Council the topographical or physical
conditions, unusual or excessive public travel, or other character of the work
warrants only partial payment or no payment of the cost by owners of benefitted
properties.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the Council from
using other means of financing improvements, including federal and state
grants-in-aid, sewer charges or fees, revenue bonds, general obligation bonds,
or other legal means of finance. If other means of finance are used, the
Council may levy special assessments according to benefits derived to cover any
remaining cost.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.09 ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   (A)   If the Council determines the public improvement shall be made, when
the estimated cost is determined on the basis of the contract ward or city
departmental cost or after the work is done and the cost has been actually
determined, the Council shall decide whether the benefitted property shall bear
all or a portion of the cost. The Recorder or other persons designated by the
Council shall prepare the proposed assessment for each lot within the
assessment district and file the assessments in the Recorder’s office.
   (B)   Notice of the proposed assessment shall be mailed to the owner of each
lot proposed to be assessed at the address shown on the Washington County Tax
Assessor’s roll. The notice shall state the amount of assessment proposed on
the property and fix a date by which time objections shall be filed with the
Recorder. An objection shall state the grounds for the objection.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Council shall:
      (1)   Consider objections and may adopt, correct, modify, or revise the
assessment against each lot in the district according to special and peculiar
benefits accruing to it from the improvement; and
      (2)   By ordinance, spread the assessment.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.10 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Within 10 days after the ordinance levying assessments has been
passed, the Recorder shall send a notice of assessment to each owner of
assessed property by registered or certified mail and publish notice of the
assessment twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The first
publication of notice shall be not later than 20 days after the date of the
assessment ordinance.
   (B)   The notice of assessment shall include the name of the property owner,
a description of the assessed property, the amount of the assessment, and the
date of the assessment ordinance, and shall state that interest will begin to
run on the assessment and the property will be subject to foreclosure unless
the owner either makes application to pay the assessment in installments within
10 days after the date of the first publication of notice or pays the
assessment in full within 30 days after the date of the assessment ordnance.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.11 LIEN RECORD AND FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   After the assessment ordinance is adopted, the Recorder shall enter
into the docket of liens a statement of the amount assessed on each lot, parcel
of land, or portion of land, a description of the improvement, names of
property owners, and the date of the assessment ordinance. On entry into the
lien docket, the amounts shall become liens and charges on the lots, parcels of
land, or portions of land that have been assessed for improvements.
   (B)   Assessment liens of the city shall be superior and prior to all other
liens or encumbrances on property insofar as state law permits.
   (C)   Thirty days after the date of the assessment ordinance, interest shall
be charged at a rate of __% more than the interest rate in §
34.02(G), and the city may foreclose or enforce collection of assessment liens
in the manner provided by state law.
   (D)   The city may enter a bid on property being offered at a foreclosure
sale. The city bid shall be prior to all bids except those made by persons who
would be entitled under state law to redeem the property.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.12 ERROR IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATION.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be called to the
attention of the Recorder, who shall determine whether there has been an error.
If there has bee an error, the Recorder shall recommend to the Council an
amendment to the assessment ordinance to correct the error. On enactment of the
amendment, the Recorder shall make the necessary correction in the docket of
liens and send a corrected notice of assessment by registered or certified
mail.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.13 SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENTS.
   If an assessment is made before the total cost of the improvement is
determined, and if the amount of the assessment is insufficient to defray
expenses of the improvement, the Council may declare the insufficiency by
motion and prepare a proposed supplemental assessment. The Council shall set a
time for hearing objections to the supplemental assessment and direct the City
Recorder to publish 1 notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. After the hearing, the Council shall make a just and
equitable supplemental assessment by ordinance, which shall be entered in the
docket of liens as provided by §
34.11. Notice of the supplemental assessment shall be published and mailed, and
collection of the assessment shall be made, in accordance with §§
34.11 and
34.12.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.14 REBATES.
   On completion of the improvement project, if the assessment previously
levied on any property is found to be more than sufficient to pay the cost of
the improvement, the Council shall determine the excess and declare it by
ordinance. When declared, the excess amounts must be entered in the lien docket
as a credit on the appropriate assessment. If an assessment has been paid, the
person who paid it or that person’s legal representative shall be entitled to
payment of the rebate credit.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.15 REMEDIES.
   Subject to curative provisions of §
34.17 and rights of the city to reassess as provided in §
34.18, proceedings for writs of review and other appropriate equitable or legal
relief may be filed as provided by state law.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.16 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council may abandon proceedings for improvements made under this chapter
at any time before final completion of the improvements. If liens have been
placed on property under this procedure, they shall be canceled, and payments
made on assessments shall be refunded to the person who payed them or to that
person’s legal representative.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.17 CURATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   An improvement assessment shall not be rendered invalid by reason of:
      (1)   Failure of the Engineer’s report to contain all information
required by §
34.02;
      (2)   Failure to have all the required information in the improvement
resolution, assessment ordinance, lien docket, or notices required to be
published and mailed;
      (3)   Failure to list the name of or mail notice to an owner of property
as required by this chapter; and/or
      (4)   Any other error, mistake, delay, omission, irregularity, or other
act, jurisdictional or otherwise, in the proceedings or steps specified, unless
it appears that the assessment is unfair or unjust in its effect on the person
complaining.
   (B)   The Council shall have authority to remedy and correct all matters by
suitable action and proceedings.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 34.18 REASSESSMENT.
   When an assessment, supplemental assessment, or reassessment for an
improvement made by the city has been set aside, annulled, declared, or
rendered void, or its enforcement restrained by a court of this state or by a
federal court having jurisdiction, or when the Council doubts the validity of
the assessment, supplemental assessment, reassessment, or any part of it, the
Council may make a reassessment in the manner provided by state law.
(Ord. 1-1-85, passed 12-11-1984)
CHAPTER 35: ELECTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Qualifications of electors
   
35.02   Canvas of election returns
   
35.03   Certificate of election
   
35.04   Qualification of elective officers
§ 35.01 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Every person who is a resident of the city and who qualifies as a legal
voter under state law may vote in city elections.
(Ord. 2008-10-02, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 35.02 CANVAS OF ELECTION RETURNS.
   (A)   In all elections held in conjunction with state and county elections,
the state law governing the filing and canvassing of returns shall apply.
   (B)   The results of each election shall be entered in the record of the
City Council.
   (C)   The record shall state the number of votes of the officers elected,
and the measures enacted or approved.
   (D)   Tie votes shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a manner
prescribed by City Council.
(Ord. 2008-10-02, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 35.03 CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   Immediately after completion of the canvass the city elections officer shall
issue a certificate of election to each person elected. The certificate shall
be prima facie evidence of the facts which it states.
(Ord. 2008-10-02, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 35.04 QUALIFICATION OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   No person may fill an elective office of the city unless at the time of the
election or appointment the person is a qualified elector of the state and has
resided continuously in the city during the 12 months immediately preceding the
election or appointment. A person, after taking office, must remain a resident
of the city and qualified elector of the state in order to continue to hold the
office. The City Council is the final judge on the qualifications and election
of its own members.
(Ord. 2008-10-02, passed 10-14-2008)
CHAPTER 36: PROCUREMENT
Section
   
36.01   General provisions
   
36.02   Personal service contracts not including certain construction related
personal services
   
36.03   Contracts for certain construction related personal services
   
36.04   Authority to electronically advertise solicitations for goods and
services
   
36.05   Authority to electronically advertise solicitations for public
improvements
   
36.06   Small procurement
   
36.07   Intermediate procurement
   
36.08   Formal procurement
   
36.09   Exemptions from procurement requirements
   
36.10   Notice of intent to award certain contracts
   
36.11   Procedure for surplus property
   
36.12   Signature authority
§ 36.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided within these rules, the city's public contracting
is governed by the Oregon Public Contracting Code in O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B
and 279C (the "Code") and the Oregon Attorney General's Model Public Contract
Rules in O.A.R. Chapter 137, Divisions 46, 47, 48 and 49 (the "Model Rules").
   (B)   The Banks City Council ("Council") is the city's local contract review
board. Except as these rules may otherwise provide, the powers and duties of
local contract review boards under the Code and Model Rules will be exercised
by the Council, and the powers and duties given or assigned to contracting
agencies by the Code or Model Rules will be exercised by the City Manager
acting as the city's contracting agent.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager for the City of Banks, or the City
Manager's designee.
      EMERGENCY. Circumstances that:
         (a)   Could not have been reasonably foreseen;
         (b)   Create a substantial risk of loss, damage or interruption of
services or a substantial threat to property, public health, welfare or safety;
and
         (c)   Require prompt execution of a contract to remedy the condition.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.02 PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS NOT INCLUDING CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION RELATED
PERSONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACT means a contract for personal or
professional services performed by an independent contractor, primarily for the
provision of services that require specialized technical, creative,
professional or communication skills or talents, unique and specialized
knowledge, or the exercise of discretionary judgment skills, and for which the
quality of the service depends on attributes that are unique to the service
provider. Such services include, but are not limited to, the services of
attorneys, accounting and auditing services, information technology services,
planning and development services, artists, designers, performers, property
managers and consultants. The City Manager has discretion to determine whether
a particular contract or service falls within this definition. For the purposes
of this section, PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS do not include contracts for
architectural, engineering, photogrammetric, land surveying and, in very narrow
instances, transportation planning services when only such professionals may
legally provide the service. The procedures for those contracts are found in §
36.03.
   (B)   The following formal selection procedure will be used when the
estimated payment to the contractor exceeds $50,000.
      (1)   Announcement. The city will give notice of its intent to procure
personal services through a newspaper of general circulation, and any other
means the city deems appropriate, including contacting prospective contractors
directly. Announcements will include:
         (a)   A description of the proposed project;
         (b)   The scope of the services required;
         (c)   The project completion dates;
         (d)   A description of special requirements;
         (e)   When and where the application may be obtained and to whom it
must be returned;
         (f)   The closing date; and
         (g)   Other necessary information.
      (2)   Application. Applications will include a statement that describes
the prospective contractor's credentials, performance data, examples of
previous work product or other information sufficient to establish contractor's
qualification for the project, references, and other information identified by
the city as necessary to make its selection.
      (3)   Initial screening. The City Manager will evaluate the
qualifications of all applicants and select a prospective contractor or
prospective contractors whose application demonstrates that the contractor is
best qualified to meet the city's needs.
      (4)   Final selection.
         (a)   The City Manager will interview the finalists selected from the
initial screening. At the City Manager's discretion, the interviews may be
conducted before the Council.
         (b)   After the interview process concludes, the City Manager will
make the final selection. If the interviews are conducted before the Council,
the Council will make the final selection.
         (c)   The final selection will be based upon applicant capability,
experience, project approach, compensation requirements, references and any
other criteria identified by the city as necessary for the city to select a
contractor.
   (C)   The following informal selection procedure may be used when the
estimated payment to the contractor does not exceed $50,000 or when the City
Manager determines that the informal procedures will not interfere with
competition among prospective contractors, reduce the quality of services or
increase costs. The City Manager will contact a minimum of 3 prospective
contractors qualified to offer the services sought. The City Manager will
request an estimated fee, and make the selection consistent with the city's
best interests. If 3 quotes are not received, the City Manager will make a
written record of efforts to obtain the quotes.
   (D)   The City Manager may enter into personal service contracts not
exceeding an estimated $5,000 without following the procedures under divisions
(B)(2) or (3). However, the City Manager must make reasonable efforts to choose
the most qualified contractor to meet the city's needs. The amount of a given
contract may not be manipulated to avoid the informal or formal selection
procedures.
   (E)   The City Manager may negotiate with a single source for personal
services if the services are available from only 1 contractor, or the
prospective contractor has special skills uniquely required for the performance
of the services. The city must make written findings to demonstrate why the
proposed contractor is the only contractor who can perform the services
desired.
   (F)   The City Manager may select a contractor without following any
procedures if an emergency exists. In such instances, the City Manager must
memorialize in writing the circumstances that justify the emergency
appointments.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.03 CONTRACTS FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION RELATED PERSONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section implements O.R.S. 279C.100 through 279C.125. The
city will rely on this section, not the Model Rules, when it seeks to contract
with an architect, engineer, photogrammetrist, land surveyor or (in very narrow
instances) a transportation planner.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies only to personal services meeting
the following criteria:
      (1)   A contract with an estimated fee that exceeds $100,000; and
      (2)   The contract is for a personal service that is legally required to
be provided or performed by an architect, engineer, photogrammetrist,
transportation planner or land surveyor. For example: hiring an architect to
design a building or structure, or hiring an engineer to design a wastewater
system. Because the law requires licensed professionals to design buildings and
infrastructure, the city would rely on this section to hire someone to perform
those services. However, if the city were hiring an architect or engineer to
perform project management services (for example), it may solicit and award
such services under §
36.02 of these rules. See definition of RELATED SERVICES below.
      (3)   If either divisions (1) or (2) above is not satisfied (i.e. the
contract is for a personal service that is legally required to be provided by a
licensed architect, and the like but is estimated to not exceed $100,000; or
the contract will require an engineer, and the like to perform a related
service) then the city may rely on §
36.02 of these rules to solicit and award the contract.
      (4)   Mixed contracts. Some contracts will contain a mixture of services
covered by this section (i.e. services that only the particular consultant may
legally perform) and related services. Whether the city uses §
36.02 or this section to solicit and award a mixed contract will depend upon
the contract's predominate purpose. The city will determine the predominate
purpose based upon either the amount of money it estimates it will spend for
covered services versus related services or the amount of time it estimates the
consultant will spend working on covered services versus related services. If
covered services predominate, the city will solicit the contract under this
section. If related services predominate, the city will solicit the contract
under §
36.02.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION-RELATED CONSULTANT. An architect, engineer,
photogrammetrist, land surveyor, a transportation planner in narrow instances
defined below or a provider of related services.
      ESTIMATED FEE. The city's reasonably projected fee to be paid for a
construction-related consultant's services under the anticipated contract,
excluding all anticipated reimbursable or other non-professional fee expenses.
The estimated fee is used solely to determine the applicable contract
solicitation method and is distinct from the total amount payable under the
contract.
      PRICE AGREEMENT. Limited to mean an agreement related to the procurement
of architectural, engineering, photogrammetric mapping, transportation
planning or land surveying services, or related services, under agreed-upon
terms and conditions and possibly at a set price with:
         (a)   No guarantee of a minimum or maximum purchase; or
         (b)   An initial order or minimum purchase, combined with a continuing
obligation to provide architectural, engineering, photogrammetric mapping,
transportation planning or land surveying services or related services where
the city does not guarantee a minimum or maximum additional purchase.
      PROJECT. All components of a city-planned undertaking that gives rise to
the need for a construction-related consultant's architectural, engineering,
photogrammetric mapping, transportation planning or land surveying services, or
related services, under a contract.
      RELATED SERVICES. Personal services, other than architectural,
engineering, photogrammetric, mapping, transportation planning or land
surveying services, that are related to planning, designing, engineering or
overseeing public improvement projects or components of public improvements,
including, but not limited to, landscape architectural services, facilities
planning services, energy planning services, space planning services, hazardous
substances or hazardous waste or toxic substances testing services, cost
estimating services, appraising services, material testing services, mechanical
system balancing services, commissioning services, project management services,
construction management services, and owner's representation services or land-
use planning services. In other words, personal services that are not required
by law to be performed by an architect, engineer, photogrammetrist,
transportation planner or land surveyor.
      TRANSPORTATION PLANNING SERVICES. Only includes project-specific
transportation planning required for compliance with the National Environmental
Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. and no other types of transportation
planning services. By way of example only, TRANSPORTATION PLANNING SERVICES do
not include transportation planning for corridor plans, transportation system
plans, interchange area management plans, refinement plans and other
transportation plans not associated with an individual Project required to
comply with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
   (D)   Selection procedures.
      (1)   When selecting a construction-related consultant to perform
architectural, engineering, photogrammetric mapping, transportation planning or
land surveying services under this section, the city must award a contract to
the most qualified consultant.
      (2)   In accordance with state law, when determining which consultant is
most qualified, the city may only solicit or use pricing policies and pricing
proposals, or other price information, including the number of hours proposed
for the services required, expenses, hourly rates and overhead, to determine a
construction-related consultant's compensation after the city has selected the
most qualified consultant.
      (3)   When soliciting a construction-related consultant under this
section, the city will use a Request for Proposals ("RFP") or a Request for
Qualifications ("RFQ") followed by a RFP, as described below. The city may
advertise RFQs and RFPs in any manner it deems appropriate. If the city
directly solicits qualifications or proposals from construction-related
consultants, it will attempt to contact at least 3 consultants.
      (4)   RFQ. The city may in its sole discretion issue a RFQ to evaluate
potential construction-related consultants and establish a short list of
qualified construction-related consultants to whom it may issue a RFP for some
or all of the architectural, engineering, photogrammetric mapping,
transportation planning or land surveying services or related services
described in the RFQ. RFQs may include:
         (a)   A brief project description;
         (b)   A description of the architectural, engineering, photogrammetric
mapping, transportation planning or land surveying services or related services
required for the project;
         (c)   Any conditions or limitations that may constrain or prohibit the
selected construction-related consultant's ability to provide additional
services related to the project, including but not limited to construction
services;
         (d)   A response deadline and a description of how or where to submit
a response;
         (e)   A statement that interested consultants respond solely at their
own expense;
         (f)   RFQ evaluation criteria; and
         (g)   Any other elements the City Manager deems appropriate.
      (5)   RFP. The city will issue a RFP to select the most qualified
construction-related consultant, regardless of whether an RFQ precedes a RFP.
RFPs will include:
         (a)   A description of the project and the specific architectural,
engineering, photogrammetric mapping, transportation planning or land surveying
services or related services sought for the project, the estimated project
cost, the estimated time period during which the project is to be completed,
and the estimated time period in which the specific architectural, engineering,
photogrammetric mapping, transportation planning or land surveying services or
related services sought will be performed;
         (b)   The RFP evaluation process and the criteria that the city will
use to select the most qualified construction-related consultant, including the
weight, points or other classifications applicable to each criterion. Without
limitation, the criteria may include:
            (i)   Proposers' availability and capability to perform the
services described in the RFP;
            (ii)   Experience of proposers' key staff persons in providing
similar services on similar projects within the last 3 years;
            (iii)   The amount and type of resources, and number of experienced
staff persons proposers will commit to the project;
            (iv)   Proposers' demonstrated ability to successfully complete
similar projects on time and within budget, including the hourly rates for key
personnel and related cost data for similar projects in the previous 12 months;
            (v)   References and recommendations from past clients; and
            (vi)   Any other criteria the City Manager deems appropriate.
         (c)   Conditions or limitations, if any, that may constrain or
prohibit the selected construction-related consultant's ability to provide
additional services related to the project, including but not limited to
construction services;
         (d)   Whether interviews will or may occur and, if so, how the
interview will factor into the city's selection;
         (e)   A proposal deadline and a description of how or where to submit
a proposal;
         (f)   A statement whether the city will accept proposals in electronic
format;
         (g)   A statement that interested consultants respond solely at their
own expense;
         (h)   A statement reserving the city's right to reject any or all
proposals and its right to cancel the RFP at any time if doing either would be
in the public interest;
         (i)   A statement directing proposers to the protest procedures set
forth in the RFP;
         (j)   A statement whether or not the city will hold a pre-proposal
meeting for all interested construction-related consultants to discuss the
project and if a pre-proposal meeting will be held, the location of the meeting
and whether or not attendance is mandatory; and
         (k)   Any other elements the City Manager deems appropriate.
      (6)   After selecting the most qualified construction-related consultant
in accordance with a RFP, the city will notify each proposer accordingly and
state that it will begin negotiating a contract with the most qualified
consultant. A resulting contract will at least include:
         (a)   The consultant's performance obligations and performance
schedule;
         (b)   Payment methodology and a maximum amount payable to the
consultant for the services required under the contract;
         (c)   Legally required terms; and
         (d)   Any other provisions the city believes to be in its best
interest to negotiate.
      (7)   The city will formally terminate negotiations in writing with the
most qualified consultant if it is unable for any reason to negotiate a
contract within a reasonable amount of time, as the city may determine in its
sole discretion. The city may thereafter negotiate with the second ranked
consultant, and if necessary, with the third ranked consultant, and so on,
until negotiations result in a contract. If negotiations with any consultant do
not result in a contract within a reasonable amount of time, the city may end
the particular solicitation. Nothing in this section precludes the city from
re-entering negotiations, in its own discretion, with a consultant if
negotiations were previously terminated for the same contract.
   (E)   Price agreements. Solicitation materials and the terms and conditions
for a price agreement for architectural, engineering, photogrammetric mapping,
transportation planning or land surveying services or related services must:
      (1)   Include a scope of services, menu of services, a specification for
services or a similar description of the nature, general scope, complexity and
purpose of the procurement that will reasonably enable a construction-related
consultant to decide whether to submit a proposal;
      (2)   Specify whether the city intends to award a price agreement to 1
consultant or to multiple consultants. If the city will award a price agreement
to more than 1 consultant, the solicitation document and price agreement will
describe the criteria and procedures the city will use to select a consultant
for each individual work order or task order. Subject to the requirements of
O.R.S. 279C.110, the criteria and procedures to assign work orders or task
orders that only involve or predominantly involve architectural, engineering,
photogrammetric mapping, transportation planning or land surveying services are
at the city's sole discretion; and
      (3)   Specify the maximum term for assigning services under the price
agreement.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.04 AUTHORITY TO ELECTRONICALLY ADVERTISE SOLICITATIONS FOR GOODS AND
SERVICES.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized to develop an electronic procurement
system in accordance with O.A.R. 137-047-0300(2)(b). As described in O.A.R.
137-046-0110(16), this is an information system accessible through the Internet
that allows the city to post electronic advertisements and receive electronic
offers for goods and services. When an electronic procurement system is in
place, the Model Rules allow procurement solicitations to be advertised
exclusively online. This saves the city time and money over newspaper
advertisements.
   (B)   Prior to any development of an electronic procurement system, the city
may advertise solicitations for goods and services on the Internet in addition
to newspaper advertisements.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.05 AUTHORITY TO ELECTRONICALLY ADVERTISE SOLICITATIONS FOR PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   For all public improvement contracts with an estimated cost not
exceeding $100,000, the City Manager may electronically advertise solicitations
in a manner deemed appropriate. This method of advertising will save the city
time and money, may be used exclusively, and is allowed under O.R.S. 279C.360
(1).
   (B)   An advertisement for a public improvement contract with an estimated
cost over $100,000 must be published at least once in a trade newspaper of
general statewide circulation, such as the Daily Journal of Commerce.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.06 SMALL PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   As provided by O.R.S. 279B.065, any procurement of goods or services
not exceeding $5,000 may be awarded in any manner the City Manager finds
practical or convenient, including direct selection or award.
   (B)   A small procurement contract may be amended in accordance with O.A.R.
137-047-0800, but the cumulative amendments may not increase the total contract
price to greater than $6,000.
   (C)   A procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented so as to
constitute a small procurement under this section.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.07 INTERMEDIATE PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   As provided by O.R.S. 279B.070, any procurement of goods or services
exceeding $5,000 but not exceeding $100,000 may be awarded after seeking 3
informally solicited competitive price quotes or competitive proposals from
prospective, qualified contractors. For contracts with an estimated value of
between $20,000 and $100,000, the quotes or proposals shall be in writing. If 3
quotes or proposals are not reasonably available, fewer will suffice, but the
purchasing officer shall make a written record of the effort to obtain the
quotes or proposals. A contract shall be awarded under this section to the
responsive contractor whose quote or proposal is the most advantageous to the
city concerning price, conformity to the specifications, bidder qualifications
and experience, compatibility with existing equipment and similar relevant
factors.
   (B)   An intermediate procurement contract may be amended to exceed $100,000
only in accordance with O.A.R. 137-047-0800.
   (C)   A procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented so as to
constitute an intermediate procurement under this section.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.08 FORMAL PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   Any procurement of goods or services exceeding $100,000 shall be
awarded only after a formal competitive solicitation process unless otherwise
provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Advertising. Contracts under the formal procurement procedure shall be
advertised at least once in a newspaper of general circulation, on the city's
website and any other forum likely to result in competitive bids from qualified
respondents. The advertisement shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A brief description of the work to be performed or the goods or
services to be purchased and where and how the complete contract terms,
conditions and specifications can be obtained or reviewed.
      (2)   The date by which respondents must file applications for
prequalification if prequalification is a requirement, and the classes of work
for which the respondent must be prequalified.
      (3)   The scheduled closing date for the acceptance of bids, which shall
be not less than 5 days after the date of the last published advertisement.
      (4)   The name, title and address of the person to whom bids should be
sent or delivered.
      (5)   The scheduled bid opening date, time and place.
      (6)   If applicable, whether the contract is subject to prevailing wage
rates under O.R.S. 279C.800 through 279C.870 or the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C.
276(a)), and if so that all bidders shall provide a signed statement agreeing
to comply with these requirements.
      (7)   That each bid must include a signed statement as to whether the
bidder is a resident bidder as provided in O.R.S. 279A.120.
      (8)   That the city may reject any bid not in compliance with all
prescribed public bidding procedures and requirements, and may reject for good
cause all bids upon a finding that it is in the public interest to do so.
   (C)   Requirements for bids. All bids submitted and received under the
formal procurement procedures shall adhere to the following requirements:
      (1)   All bids shall be in writing, filed with the person designated to
receive bids for the city and shall be opened publicly by the city at the time
and location stated in the bid advertisement.
      (2)   After opening, all bids shall be filed and available for public
inspection.
      (3)   All bids shall include a bid security in the form of a surety bond,
cashier's check, certified check or irrevocable letter of credit from the
bidder, unless the contract is exempt from this requirement. The security shall
not exceed 10% of the total bid amount. The bid security shall be due and
payable to the city in the event the contract is awarded to the bidder and the
bidder fails to execute a contract. At the discretion of the City Manager, the
city may exempt a bid from this requirement for a public improvement where the
contract is less than $25,000.
      (4)   All bids shall include all of the signed statements required in the
preceding division or otherwise specified in the bid advertisement, including a
statement that the bidder will comply with and provide all specified work and/
or materials described in the specifications.
      (5)   The First-Tier Subcontractor Disclosure Form, when required by
O.R.S. 279C.370 for a public improvement contract, must be submitted to the
city with the bid or proposal for that public improvement contract.
   (D)   Contract award. The following shall control the city's award of a
contract under the formal procurement procedures:
      (1)   The city shall open all bids at the time and place specified, and
shall subsequently award the contract to the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder based on the evaluation and/or selection criteria stated in the
specifications. For purposes of determining the lowest responsible bidder, the
city shall add a percent increase to the bid total of a nonresident bidder
equal to the percent, if any, given to that bidder in the state in which the
bidder resides.
      (2)   The successful bidder shall promptly execute a formal contract with
the city. If the contract is for a public improvement, the successful bidder
shall execute and deliver to the city a performance sufficient bond, in a form
acceptable to the City Attorney, equal to the contract price for the faithful,
satisfactory and complete performance of the contract. The successful bidder
shall also execute and deliver to the city a material and labor payment bond in
a form and amount acceptable to the City Attorney. In lieu of a surety bond,
the city may permit the successful bidder to submit a cashier's check,
certified check, letter of credit or similar instrument in an amount equal to
the contract price. In case of emergency or where the city's interest or
property could suffer material injury by delay or other causes, the requirement
that the successful bidder provide a surety bond for the contract price may be
waived, in whole or in part, if the Contract Review Board makes a declaration
of emergency.
      (3)   At least 7 days before the award of a public contract, the city
shall provide to each bidder or proposer notice of the city's intent to award a
contract. Notice shall be in writing and mailed to the address provided by the
bidder or proposer. This notice requirement does not apply to emergency or
special procurements.
   (E)   Rejection of bids and proposals. The city may reject any bid or
proposal not in compliance with all prescribed public bidding procedures and
requirements or requirements for the particular bid or proposal. The city may
also reject all bids or proposals upon a finding that it is in the public
interest to do so or otherwise cancel the bid request or proposal solicitation.
In any case where competitive bids or proposals are required and all bids or
proposals are rejected, the city may revise the project or specifications and
call for new bids or proposals.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.09 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific exemptions. The following classes of contracts are exempt
from the procurement requirements otherwise provided in §§
36.06 through
36.08:
      (1)   Interagency contracts. Contracts made with other public agencies or
the federal government.
      (2)   Nonprofit contracts. Contracts made with qualified nonprofit
agencies providing employment opportunities for disabled individuals.
      (3)   Repairs. Contracts for equipment repair or overhaul if:
         (a)   The service or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be
determined without extensive preliminary dismantling or testing; or
         (b)   The service or parts required are for sophisticated equipment
for which specially trained personnel are required and such personnel are
available from only one source; or
         (c)   The service or parts required are known and available from a
sole, specific source to match existing equipment.
      (4)   Regulated price goods. Contracts for the direct purchase of goods
or services where the rate or price for the goods or services being purchased
is established by federal, state or local regulatory authority.
      (5)   Periodicals. Contracts for subscriptions for periodicals, including
journals, magazines, and similar publications.
      (6)   Used personal property. Contracts for the purchase of used personal
property if the City Manager determines that the award of the contract without
competitive bidding will result in cost savings.
      (7)   Investments. Contracts for the investing of public funds or the
borrowing of funds by the city when the investment or borrowing is contracted
under the duly enacted statute, ordinance, charter, or constitutional
provision.
      (8)   Contract amendments. Contract amendment for additional work,
including change orders, extra work, field orders, or other changes in the
original specifications which increases the original contract price if:
         (a)   The original contract was let by competitive bidding, unit
prices or bid alternatives were provided that established the cost for
additional work, and a binding obligation exists on the parties covering the
terms and conditions of the additional work; or
         (b)   The amount of the aggregate cost increase resulting from all
amendments does not exceed 20% of the initial contract. Contracts for the
renovation or remodeling of buildings may have aggregate amendments not
exceeding 33% of the initial contract. Amendments made pursuant to division (a)
above are not included in computing these aggregate amounts.
      (9)   Copyrighted materials. Contracts for the purchase of copy-righted
materials where there is only 1 known supplier available for such material.
      (10)   Requirements contracts. Contracts for the purchase of requirements
for an anticipated need at a predetermined price if:
         (a)   The contract is let by a competitive procurement process; and
         (b)   The term of the contract including renewals does not exceed 3
years. When the price of goods and services has been established by a
requirements contract under these provisions, the City Manager may purchase the
goods and services from the supplier without subsequent competitive bidding.
      (11)   Insurance. Contracts for the purchase of employee benefit plans.
      (12)   Computer and telecommunications hardware and software. Contracts
for the acquisition of data and word processing or telecommunications systems
hardware and systems software.
      (13)   Telecommunication services.  Contracts for telecommunications
services, subject to the provisions of O.A.R. 125-320-025.
      (14)   Copier and fax equipment. Contracts for the purchase or lease of
office copiers and telefax equipment. The city may enter into multiple price
agreements or requirements contracts for either the purchase or lease of office
copying and telefax equipment. The agreements shall conform with the
limitations on requirements contracts set out above. In exercising this
exception, the City Manager shall fully consider the operating capabilities,
limitations, and cost of each brand or model and select that brand which will
produce the best combination of performance and cost per copy or transmission.
      (15)   Works of art. Contracts for the purchasing or commissioning of
works of art.
      (16)   Goods for resale. Contracts for goods purchased for resale to
consumers.
      (17)   Existing public agency contracts. Contracts between public
agencies utilizing an existing solicitation or current requirement contract of
1 of the public agencies that is a party to the contract for which the original
contract met the requirements of O.R.S. Chapter 279, the contract allows other
public agency usage of the contract, and the original contracting public agency
concurs.
      (18)   Temporary employment. Contracts with temporary service or
employment agencies.
      (19)   Real property. Acquisition or disposal of real property or
interest in real property.
   (B)   Sole source procurement. Pursuant to O.R.S. 279B.075(1), the City
Manager may award a contract for goods or services without competition when he
or she determines in writing, based on written findings described in this
section, that the goods or services, or class of goods or services, are
available from only 1 source. To the extent reasonably practical, the city
shall negotiate with the sole source to obtain contract terms advantageous to
the city. The solicitation and selection of a sole source provider shall be
documented in writing and based on 1 or more of the following findings required
by O.R.S. 279B.075(2), and otherwise be processed in accordance with O.A.R.
137-047-0275:
      (1)   That the efficient utilization of existing goods requires the
acquisition of compatible goods or services.
      (2)   That the goods or services required for the exchange of software or
data with other public or private agencies are available from only 1 source.
      (3)   That the goods or services are for use in a pilot or an
experimental project.
      (4)   Other findings that support the conclusion that the goods or
services are available from only 1 source.
   (C)   Emergency procurement. The Mayor, or Council President in the absence
of the Mayor, may make or authorize others to make emergency procurement of
goods or services in an emergency in an amount not to exceed $50,000 without
using competitive procurement procedures. The solicitation and selection of a
contractor in an emergency situation shall be documented in writing and based 1
or more of the following findings:
      (1)   The solicitation and selection of a contractor in an emergency
situation shall be documented in writing, including a written explanation of
the nature of the emergency and the method used for the selection of the
particular contractor.
      (2)   A majority of the City Council must concur that an emergency
exists.
   (D)   General class and individual contract exemption. The City Council may
exempt a public improvement contract or a class of public improvement contracts
from competitive bidding upon approval of written findings described below.
Exemption under this section shall occur only after a public hearing before the
City Council noticed by posting and publication at least 14 days before the
hearing:
      (1)   Required findings:
         (a)   It is unlikely that the exemption will encourage favoritism in
the awarding of public improvement contracts or substantially diminish
competition for public improvement contracts; and
         (b)   The awarding of public improvement contracts under the exemption
will result in substantial cost savings to the city.
      (2)   In granting an exemption under this section, the city shall, when
appropriate, use alternate contracting methods that take account of market
realities and modern practices and are consistent with the public policy of
encouraging competition.
      (3)   A public improvement contract may be exempted from competitive
bidding if emergency conditions require prompt execution of the contract. If
the city declares an emergency, any contract awarded under this section must be
awarded within 60 days following declaration of the emergency.
      (4)   An exemption under this section may authorize or require the award
of a public improvement contract by competitive proposals. A contract awarded
under this section may be amended only upon approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.10 NOTICE OF INTENT TO AWARD CERTAIN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   At least 7 days before the award of a public contract solicited under
a traditional invitation to bid or request for proposals, the city will post or
provide to each bidder or proposer notice of the city's intent to award a
contract.
   (B)   If stated in the solicitation document, the city may post this notice
electronically or through non-electronic means and require the bidder or
proposer to determine the status of the city's intent.
   (C)   As an alternative, the city may provide written notice to each bidder
or proposer of the city's intent to award a contract. This written notice may
be provided electronically or through non-electronic means.
   (D)   The city may give less than 7 days notice of its intent to award a
contract if the city determines in writing that 7 days is impracticable as
allowed by O.R.S. 279B.135.
   (E)   This section does not apply to goods and services contracts awarded
under small procurements under these rules, or other goods and services
contracts awarded in accordance with O.R.S. 279B.070, 279B.075, 279B.080 or
279B.085.
   (F)   This section does not apply to any public improvement contract or
class of public improvement contracts exempted from competitive bidding
requirements.
   (G)   A protest of the city's intent to award a contract may only be filed
in accordance with O.A.R. 137-047-0740 or O.A.R. 137-049-0450, as applicable.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.11 PROCEDURE FOR SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Surplus property is property owned by the city such as office
furniture, computers, equipment, vehicles, excluding real property, that the
City Manager determines is surplus and no longer useful to the city.
   (B)   The City Manager may authorize the sale, donation or destruction of
surplus property. Surplus property may be sold through the informal
solicitation of bids or through an auction, including an online auction. The
City Manager has the discretion to advertise the sale of surplus property in a
newspaper of city-wide circulation.
   (C)   Employees of the city may purchase surplus property, so long as at
least 3 individuals or entities have bid on the property and the employee's bid
is the highest bid.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 36.12 SIGNATURE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to clarify when the City Manager may
bind the city to a purchase of, or a contract for, goods, services (including
personal services) and public improvements (collectively "purchases") without
additional Council authorization. In order to bind the city to a purchase, the
City Manager must sign a document related to the purchase. For the purposes of
this section, signing a document includes a digital signature or authorization.
   (B)   If the Council's adopted budget for a given fiscal year includes or
anticipates the purchase the City Manager may bind the city without additional
Council authorization. For the purposes of this section, the City Manager may
exercise reasonable discretion in determining whether the adopted budget
anticipates a purchase.
   (C)   For purchases with a value exceeding $10,000 and if the Council's
adopted budget for a given fiscal year does not include or anticipate the
purchase regardless of the dollar amount, the Council must authorize the
purchase in order to bind the city to it.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 8-13-2013)
CHAPTER 37: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
37.01   Purpose and applicability
   
37.02   Definitions
   
37.03   Enforcement requirements and civil infractions
   
37.04   Citation for civil infractions
   
37.05   Contents of the civil infraction citations
   
37.06   Judicial proceedings and procedures
   
37.07   Nuisance abatement by the city and cost recovery
   
37.08   Civil penalties
   
37.09   Recordation of assessment lien and foreclosure
§ 37.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter provides a process for enforcing the requirements of the Banks
Zoning Ordinance, Land Division Ordinance, Nuisance Ordinance, Dangerous
Buildings Ordinance and all other ordinances, regulations, permits, licenses or
approvals issued by the city pursuant to the city's permitting or regulatory
authority. Where any city ordinance provides its own or a different enforcement
procedure or remedy, those procedures and remedies shall be in addition to
those provided in this chapter. The civil process set forth in this chapter is
designed to provide prompt notice to property owners and other interested
parties that appear to be in violation of the city's legal requirements and
regulations and to guarantee those accused of an infraction the right to an
evidentiary hearing on the alleged infraction. The process is designed to
provide a measure of certainty to the citizens of Banks that violations will be
addressed promptly and decisively and to ensure that the due process rights of
those accused of infractions are protected. This chapter shall not apply to
criminal matters and shall not result in the imposition of criminal sanctions.
Unless indicated otherwise the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure shall be
applicable and may be used in any civil enforcement action under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL INFRACTION.  The violation or failure to comply with any provision of
the Banks Zoning Ordinance, Land Division Ordinance, Nuisance Ordinance and any
other ordinance adopted by the city that imposes legal obligations or
regulations on people, property or activities. Civil infraction also includes
any violation or failure to comply with any provision or requirement of any
permit, order, license or approval granted by an authorized city official, the
City Council or other decision maker.
   CODE.  Collectively, the Banks Zoning Ordinance, Land Division Ordinance,
Nuisance Ordinance and any other ordinance adopted by the city that imposes
legal obligations, regulations or prohibitions on people, property or
activities plus any other regulation adopted or administered by the City of
Banks. CODE also means any codification of ordinances, such as the Banks Code
of Ordinances that the city may adopt and from time to time amend.
   COURT.  Any of the following: Banks Municipal Court, Justice Court,
Washington County Circuit Court, or the Banks City Council sitting in a
judicial capacity and reviewing a civil infraction under this chapter.
   OFFICER.  A sworn peace officer or any person appointed by the Mayor and
authorized to administer and enforce the city's Code, including, but not
limited to, the City Manager, City Recorder, City Planner or the City Attorney.
   PERMIT.  Permit, order, license or approval granted by an authorized city
official, the City Council or other governmental decision maker plus any other
permit or approval administered or enforced by the city.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, property owner, limited liability
corporation, partnership, unincorporated association, local government,
government agency or other legal entity.
   RESPONDENT.  Any person, corporation, limited liability corporation,
partnership, unincorporated association, or other legal entity alleged to have
committed a civil infraction and the owner of any property on which a civil
infraction is alleged to have occurred.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.03 ENFORCEMENT REQUIREMENTS AND CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, or cause to occur, any use, development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or maintenance of any property,
building, structure or vehicle, or alter or use any land in violation of the
Code, state law or any city-issued permit. No person shall engage in any use of
property, or allow a use of property under their ownership or control, that is
prohibited by the Code, state law or otherwise not allowed by a city-issued
permit. No person shall fail to pay any charge due the city when such failure
to pay is made a civil infraction.
   (B)   No permit for the construction, occupation or use of a property,
building, structure or business shall be issued if such property, building,
structure or business or proposed use, and the land upon which it is proposed
to be located, is in violation with any applicable provisions of the Code or
state law.
   (C)   Failure to obtain a permit or other approval, where one is required by
the Code, shall constitute a nuisance and a civil infraction. Violation of any
provision of the Code or a city-issued permit enforced under this chapter may
constitute grounds for revocation, nonrenewal or denial of a permit issued by
the city.
   (D)   Any violation of the Code, state law or a city-issued permit that is
actionable under this chapter shall constitute a civil infraction and a
nuisance. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate civil infraction
that can give rise to a separate citation, conviction and fine.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.04 CITATION FOR CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Basis for the citation. Upon a determination by an Officer that 1 or
more civil infractions have occurred, the Officer shall issue a citation to the
person or other entity who the Officer has probable cause to believe is
responsible for the activity or failure to act that is deemed to be the civil
infraction. The person or entity that committed the alleged violation shall be
responsible for the civil infraction. In addition, if the person who committed
the alleged violation is on property owned by another, with the property
owner's permission, the property owner shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the violation.
   (B)   Service of the citation. The Officer shall serve the citation on the
respondent(s) by any of the following methods reasonably calculated to actually
reach the respondent:
      (1)   Personal service;
      (2)   Certified first class mail, return receipt requested, to the
respondent's last known mailing address;
      (3)   Any means provided in Rule 7 of the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure
reasonably calculated to apprize the respondent(s) of the violation; or
      (4)   Where a respondent avoids or eludes service or is otherwise not
locatable for service, the city is entitled to use alternative service in the
form of any of the following: posting the property, publication in a local
newspaper, first class mail to the property.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.05 CONTENTS OF THE CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.
   (A)   The citation for a civil infraction shall include at least the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the respondent(s).
      (2)   The time, date and place the civil infraction was alleged to have
occurred.
      (3)   A statement describing the civil infraction(s) alleged to have
occurred with a reference to the pertinent Code references or other commonly
understood reference to the law, ordinance or permit alleged to have been
violated.
      (4)   A summons indicating the time, date and place for entering a plea
in court, at which time the respondent(s) shall appear and enter a plea
responding to the charge(s) alleged in the citation.
      (5)   A certification that the Officer issuing the citation has
reasonable grounds to believe, and does believe, that the respondent(s)
committed the civil infraction contrary to law. This certificate shall be
deemed equivalent to a sworn complaint.
   (B)   A uniform traffic citation and complaint shall be deemed an acceptable
form for any civil infraction citation under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.06 JUDICIAL PROCEEDING AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Jurisdiction for civil infractions filed and processed under this
chapter shall be in any of the following venues: Banks Municipal Court, Justice
Court, Washington County Circuit Court, or the City Council sitting in a
judicial capacity. The Municipal Court and City Council may adopt, and amend
from time to time, procedural rules governing their proceedings. The City
Recorder may serve as the Clerk to Municipal Court or the City Council in
proceedings under this chapter.
   (B)   Unless an applicable provision of Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure
provides otherwise, the following procedures shall be followed in proceedings
initiated under this chapter:
      (1)   The respondent(s) shall appear in Court at the time and date
indicated in the citation for entering a plea, at which time the respondent(s)
shall state whether the respondent(s) committed or did not commit the
infraction(s) alleged. The respondent(s) may enter a plea by mail prior to the
arraignment date indicated in the citation so long as the written plea is
actually received by the court before the stated time of the arraignment.
      (2)   If a respondent enters a plea of having committed the infraction,
no contest, fails to appear or otherwise timely enter a plea, the Court shall
find that the respondent committed the infraction as alleged and shall enter an
order directing the respondent to abate, correct or otherwise remedy the
violation, and the Court shall impose a civil penalty in accordance with this
chapter.
      (3)   If a respondent timely enters a plea of having not committed the
infraction, the Court shall schedule the matter for hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the citing Officer shall present the case and
evidence in support of the citation. The respondent shall be afforded an
opportunity to review and rebut the Officer's evidence, cross-examine the
Officer's witnesses, and present testimony, evidence and witnesses in support
of respondent's case. Any party may be represented by an attorney, but the city
shall not be responsible for providing any respondent with legal
representation.
      (5)   The Court shall enter an order in favor of the city if the Officer
proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the respondent committed the
infraction, in which case the Court shall enter an order directing the
respondent to abate, correct or otherwise remedy the violation by a time
certain, and the Court shall impose a civil penalty in accordance with this
chapter.
      (6)   The Court shall retain jurisdiction over the matter until the
violation is fully remedied, abated or otherwise corrected in compliance with
the Court's order and the applicable requirements of the Code, state law or
city-issued permit.
      (7)   Civil inspection warrants. At any time the city may seek, and the
Court shall grant, a civil inspection warrant allowing entry onto private
property for purposes of inspecting the property to determine compliance with
the Code, state law or a city-issued permit. The warrant shall be issued upon
oath or affirmation of a responsible city Officer seeking access to private
property, including the interior of enclosed spaces and buildings, and shall
allow inspection of the private property between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., with
reasonable advance notice to the owner or occupant. Any such warrant shall
allow access and the ability to inspect by any responsible and suitably
qualified officer, inspector, state or local official. The results of any such
inspection shall be submitted as a written report to the Court.
      (8)   Civil contempt proceedings. In the event that a respondent fails or
refuses to comply with any order issued by the Court in a civil enforcement
proceeding under this chapter, the city may seek a contempt citation that the
respondent be held in contempt of court and shall be subject to any sanction
imposed by the Court including monetary fine and/or incarceration.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.07 NUISANCE ABATEMENT BY THE CITY AND COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Nuisance and abatement order. Upon a finding that a respondent
committed a civil infraction, the Court shall declare the civil infraction to
be a nuisance, and if the violation still exists, the court shall order the
respondent to abate, correct or otherwise remedy the nuisance. In the event the
respondent fails to so abate or remedy the nuisance within the time provided
for in the Court's order, the Officer, without further proceedings, may take
any action the Officer deems to be reasonably necessary to abate or remedy the
nuisance in compliance with the Court's order, or the Officer may seek a
contempt order from Court against respondent for failing to comply with the
Court's order.
   (B)   Summary abatement by the city in emergency situations. With or without
the respondent first having appeared, the Officer may seek, and the court may
order, the summary abatement of the activity alleged in the civil infraction
citation upon a finding that:
      (1)   An imminent and substantial threat to the public health, safety or
welfare exists by virtue of the alleged action or inaction; and
      (2)   Immediate abatement of the activity or nuisance is necessary to
prevent a threatened harm to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (C)   Upon the issuance of a summary abatement order under this section, the
Officer may, without further notice or proceedings, take whatever steps are
necessary to abate, correct or remedy the nuisance that is the basis for the
citation. The city may seek cost recovery against the respondent(s) for all of
the Officer's expenses incurred in undertaking a summary abatement action.
   (D)   Recovery of the city's enforcement prosecution and abatement costs.
Following entry of an order against a respondent under this chapter, the city
may petition the Court to recover from respondent(s) all of its reasonable
costs associated with bringing and prosecuting a civil enforcement action under
this chapter and for any abatement action that may be necessary if the
respondent(s) fail to abate the violation. Reasonable costs include the city's
attorney, administrative and staff time, inspection costs, contractor costs,
materials and equipment, service and administrative expenses, the cost of work
to demolish, remove, correct or otherwise abate the nuisance, and any
associated disposal costs. The city shall file with the court and serve on
respondent(s) a sworn statement of its costs incurred in the action. The Court
shall review the sworn statement and any objections thereto, and shall issue an
order awarding the city its reasonable costs incurred in the enforcement and
abatement action, payable by the respondent(s). Any such award of costs
pursuant to this chapter shall accrue interest at the rate of 9% per year until
paid and may be recorded as a municipal assessment lien and foreclosed as
provided in §
37.09.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.08 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Court that 1 or more respondents committed a
civil infraction under this chapter, the Court shall impose a civil penalty up
to $500 per violation.
   (B)   Each day that a violation is found to exist shall constitute a
separate citable and sanctionable civil infraction.
   (C)   Any civil penalties awarded by the Court pursuant to this chapter
shall accrue interest at the rate of 9% per year until paid and may be recorded
as a municipal assessment lien and foreclosed as provided in §
37.09.
   (D)   The remedies and penalties provided in this chapter are in addition
to, and not in lieu of, any other remedy or penalties provided by law,
including, but not limited to revocation or nonrenewal of a permit or license,
injunction, a city-initiated land use proceeding, abatement or civil damages as
provided by the Code or state law in any court or agency of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 37.09 RECORDATION OF ASSESSMENT LIEN AND FORECLOSURE.
   Any judgment awarding the city its abatement costs, fines and/or penalties
against a respondent pursuant this chapter may be recorded at any time after
issuance without further notice or proceedings, in the city's lien docket and/
or the Linn County real property deed records as a municipal assessment lien
against the respondent(s) real property. The city's lien shall have priority
ahead of all other liens except as prohibited by any applicable law. The city's
lien may be foreclosed as a municipal assessment lien pursuant to O.R.S.
223.505 to 223.595 or through any other legal process. This section shall apply
to any judgment, award of costs, fines or penalties or associated lien that
exists on the day of adoption of this 2013 Ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
CHAPTER 38: EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
Section
   
38.01   General provisions
   
38.02   Definitions
   
38.03   Adoption of the National Incident Management System
   
38.04   Declaration of emergency
   
38.05   Duration of emergency
   
38.06   Declaration content
   
38.07   Ratification of an emergency declaration
   
38.08   Succession of authority
   
38.09   Emergency measures
   
38.10   Acquisition of resources
   
38.11   Responsibility for emergency program management
 
   
38.99   Penalty
§ 38.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to define the authority and
responsibility for emergency planning, to provide a procedure to minimize
injury to persons and property and to preserve the established civil authority
in the event a state of emergency exists with the city.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby appointed as the Emergency Program Manager
and shall have responsibility for the emergency program management functions,
to include, but not be limited to, program development, fiscal management,
coordination with nongovernmental agencies and organizations, public
information, personnel training and development, and conduct of exercises to
assess and improve the city's capabilities. The City Manager is also
responsible for the development and maintenance of the city's Emergency
Operations Plan.
   (C)   This chapter shall be known as the Emergency Operations Code.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager for the City of Banks or that person's
designee.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP).  Shall consist of emergency operations
policies and procedures and EOC Emergency Action Guides, including resource and
call lists. The plan shall set out emergency procedures for the city to
implement when responding to various types of emergencies. The EOP may be
changed or updated from time to time as follows: The City Council shall have
authority to adopt or amend Section 1, Administrative Overview, and Section 1a,
Basic Plan, as these sections serve as the policy direction for emergency
operations. The Emergency Program Manager shall have authority to amend other
sections or documents associated with the plan.
   LOCAL EMERGENCY.  Any man-made or natural event or circumstance causing or
threatening loss of life, injury to person or property, human suffering or
financial loss to the extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. Such events shall include, but
not be limited to, fire, explosion, flood, severe weather, drought, earthquake,
volcanic activity, spills of oil or other hazardous substances, disease,
blight, infestation, utility or transportation service disruptions, civil
disturbance, riot, sabotage terrorist attack and war.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.03 ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The principles and policies of the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) serve as the foundation for incident command, coordination, and support
activities.
   (B)   The Incident Command System (ICS) is a core component of the NIMS. To
the extent possible, the city will utilize the Incident Command System (ICS) of
NIMS to manage major emergencies and disaster operations within its
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The Emergency Program Manager will provide appropriate training on
NIMS, ICS and other core components to city staff responsible for managing and/
or supporting major emergency and disaster operations.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.04 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the City Council, a state of emergency
exists, it shall declare in writing and publicize the existence of the
emergency.
   (B)   If circumstances prohibit the timely action of the City Council, the
Mayor may declare a state of emergency provided that approval by a majority of
the Council shall be sought and obtained at the first available opportunity.
   (C)   A local emergency may be declared for the following purposes:
      (1)   To implement specific temporary emergency measures that may be
taken to protect life, property, or the environment.
      (2)   To request assistance from Washington County and/or the state, to
include requesting a declaration of a "state of emergency" be made by the
Governor.
      (3)   To request that the Governor ask for a presidential "declaration of
a major disaster or emergency," which would initiate actions necessary for the
city and its residents to receive federal disaster assistance.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.05 DURATION OF EMERGENCY.
   A local emergency shall exist for the period set forth in the declaration,
but shall not exceed 2 weeks in duration. However, the local emergency may be
extended for additional, 2-week periods with Council approval. The Mayor shall
terminate the state of emergency when the emergency no longer exists or the
threat of an emergency has passed.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.06 DECLARATION CONTENT.
   (A)   The declaration by the Mayor or successor shall state the following:
      (1)   The nature of the emergency and location or geographic area
affected.
      (2)   Description of emergency conditions or threat.
      (3)   Description of damage or potential damage, if any.
      (4)   Specific temporary emergency measures which may be taken to protect
life, property or the environment.
   (B)   If a declaration is made to request county or state assistance, the
following additional information is required to clarify the situation and
facilitate approval:
      (1)   Description of resources committed and actions initiated by the
city to address the situation. A statement requesting the Governor consider the
city an "emergency area" and declare a state of emergency; and, if warranted,
request a presidential declaration which would initiate actions necessary for
the city and/or residents to receive federal disaster assistance.
      (2)   Description of the type of assistance and/or resources required.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.07 RATIFICATION OF AN EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   Ratification of a local emergency by the City Council shall:
   (A)   State the duration of time during which the area(s) so designated
shall remain an emergency area; and
   (B)   Approve or modify the emergency measures that were invoked by the
Mayor for the emergency period set forth in the declaration.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.08 SUCCESSION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Upon a declaration of emergency, the Mayor is empowered to assume
centralized control of and have authority over all departments and offices of
the city in order to implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the Mayor is unavailable or unable to perform his or her
duties under this chapter, the duties shall be performed by:
      (1)   Council President.
      (2)   City Manager.
   (C)   All references to the Mayor in this chapter shall be deemed to refer
to the elected Mayor of Banks or to the Mayor's successor as provided in this
section.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.09 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever a state of emergency has been declared to exist within the
city, the City Council is empowered to order and enforce 1 or more of the
emergency measures listed §
38.06(C).
   (B)   If circumstances prohibit the timely action of the City Council, the
Mayor may order any of the emergency measures, provided that approval from a
majority of the City Council is sought and obtained at the first available
opportunity.
   (C)   Emergency measures that may be taken:
      (1)   Establish a curfew for the area designated as an emergency area
which fixes the hours during which all persons other than officially authorized
personnel may not be upon the public streets or other public places.
      (2)   Prohibit or limit the number of persons who may gather or
congregate upon any public street, public place or any outdoor place within the
area designated as an emergency area.
      (3)   Barricade streets or roads, as well as access points onto streets
and roads, and prohibit vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or restrict as an
emergency area for such distance or degree of regulation as may be deemed
necessary under the circumstances.
      (4)   Mandatory evacuation of persons from designated emergency areas.
      (5)   Close taverns or bars and prohibit or restrict the sale of
alcoholic beverages throughout the city or a portion thereof.
      (6)   Prohibit or restrict the sale of gasoline or other flammable
liquids.
      (7)   Prohibit or restrict the sale, carrying or possession of any
weapons or explosives of any kind on public streets, public places or any
outdoor place.
      (8)   Redirect funds for emergency use and suspend standard city
procurement procedures.
      (9)   Curtail or suspend commercial activity.
      (10)   Interrupt or terminate water, gas or electrical service.
      (11)   Authorize entry into or upon private property to prevent or
minimize danger to lives, property, or the environment.
      (12)   Order such other measures as are found to be immediately necessary
for the protection of life and/or property.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.10 ACQUISITION OF RESOURCES.
   Under this section, the City Council is authorized to extend government
authority to nongovernmental resources (i.e., personnel, equipment) which may
support regular government forces during an emergency and may enter into
agreements with other public and private agencies for use of resources. When
real or personal property is taken under power granted by this section, the
owner of the property shall be entitled to just compensation.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.11 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMERGENCY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.
   The City Manager, as the designated Emergency Program Manager, is
responsible for managing the city's emergency program. Specific duties shall
include but are not limited to the following:
   (A)   Prepare, coordinate and maintain a city Emergency Operations Plan
(EOP).
   (B)   Coordinate the activities of the city, special districts, neighboring
jurisdictions, the county and other agencies with emergency services
capabilities in the development of emergency plans, programs and operations.
   (C)   Establish an incident command structure for coordinating city response
with local emergency service agencies, neighboring jurisdictions, special
districts and other community partners.
   (D)   Provide for the procurement of personnel, equipment, materials and
supplies from higher authority, and for the accounting thereof for use in the
event of a declared emergency.
   (E)   Activate and jointly operate the Banks Emergency Operations Center
(EOC) from which emergency and disaster response activities can be directed in
collaboration with Fire District 13.
   (F)   Train and exercise city employees in conducting Emergency Operations
Center staff actions under emergency conditions.
   (G)   Recommend to the Council any ordinances, policies or procedures which
would assist the Council and other city officials in the performance of their
duties in preparing for, responding to, and recovering from an emergency.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any regulation promulgated pursuant
to this chapter, and imposed in a state of emergency declared pursuant to this
chapter; nor shall any person knowingly violate any reasonable order issued by
city emergency personnel during periods of declared emergency.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine in
an amount determined by City Council, not to exceed $1,000.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of this Code which is identical to
a state statute containing a lesser penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished
by the penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (D)   Each day on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate violation
for purposes of imposition of penalty.
(Ord. 2014-06-02, passed 6-10-2014)
CHAPTER 39: SIGN CODE
Section
   
39.01   General provisions
   
39.02   Applicability
   
39.03   Temporary signs
   
39.04   Sign permits
   
39.05   General requirements applicable to all signs
   
39.06   Signs in residential zones
   
39.07   Signs in the city’s commercial zones
   
39.08   Signs in the city’s industrial zone
   
39.09   Signs in the MU (Mixed-Use) Zone
   
39.10   Signs in the CF (Community Facilities) Zone
   
39.11   Implementation of this Sign Code
   
39.12   Conflict and Severability
   
39.13   Enforcement, violation and penalty
   
39.14   Definitions
§ 39.01 INTENT, PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Intent. Signs have a strong visual impact on the character and quality
of the community. As a prominent part of the scenery, they attract or repel the
viewing public, affect traffic safety, and their suitability or appropriateness
helps to set the tone for a neighborhood. The city relies upon its scenery and
physical beauty to attract commerce, and these aesthetics will directly benefit
economic vitality and property values. It is the intent of the city, through
this chapter, to protect and enhance the city’s historic and residential
character and its economic base through the provision of appropriate, effective
and aesthetically pleasing signage. In addition, it is the intent of the city
to promote the size, type and location of signs that will minimize their
distracting effect on drivers and thereby protect traffic safety.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter regulates the erection, placement, maintenance
and display of signs through reasonable time, place and manner regulations, to
protect and enhance public health, safety and welfare. More specifically, this
chapter is designed to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Assure the effectiveness of traffic signs and other signs erected
for public safety by limiting the number and extent of visible distractions and
obstructions that affect motorists, bicycle riders and pedestrians.
      (2)   To maintain clear and uncluttered rights-of-way so as to ensure the
effectiveness of traffic safety signs, and minimize distractions to motorists,
prevent signs from creating a hazard or nuisance by obstructing clear vision or
distracting motorists by their dominating size or appearance and maintain clear
passage on public sidewalks. This includes protecting the public right-of-way
for the safe and efficient passage of motorists, bicycle riders and
pedestrians.
      (3)   Recognize free expression rights protected by the Oregon and United
States Constitutions by imposing only reasonable time, place and manner
regulations that are facially content-neutral and applied in a content-neutral
manner.
      (4)   Respect protect rights of expression by regulating the placement of
signs in relationship to each other so that one sign does not interfere with
the ability of another sign to be seen and understood.
      (5)   Maintain and enhance the scenic and visually aesthetic qualities of
the city by limiting the size and number of signs, reducing visual clutter and
the dominance of signs through reasonable time, place and manner regulations.
      (6)   Allow those signs that are compatible with the character and uses
allowed in the different city zoning districts in which they are located.
      (7)   Provide reasonable opportunities for signs through reasonable time,
place and manner regulations.
      (8)   Address emerging trends in digital and electronic sign technologies
and provide regulations that facilitate use of such technologies.
      (9)   Protect neighborhoods, surrounding development and the night sky
from the nuisance factors associated with glare, movement and animation of
digital and electronic signs.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to, and shall not be interpreted to
restrict graphic expression on the basis of its content, viewpoint, or message.
Any classification of signs in this chapter that purports to regulate graphic
expression by the type of sign, identity of the sign user, or otherwise, shall
be interpreted to allow commercial or non-commercial speech on the sign. This
chapter shall not be construed to favor commercial speech over non-commercial
speech. To the extent that any provision of this chapter is ambiguous, it shall
not be interpreted to regulate speech based on the content of the message.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All signs are subject to this chapter except for the following:
      (1)   Signs not visible from a public right-of-way; provided, that any
such signs are erected and maintained In accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   Government signs.
      (3)   Signs inside a building, except for strobe lights, flashing or
similar lights visible from a public right-of-way or another private property
or audible from a public right-of-way or another private property.
      (4)   Signs carved into or part of materials that are an integral part of
a building.
      (5)   Customary holiday decorations.
      (6)   Murals.
      (7)   Flags less than 100 square feet in area.
      (8)   Signs attached to or carried by a person.
      (9)   Signs required by law or legal action, including signs warning of
hazardous or dangerous conditions on a property and land use application and
hearing notices.
   (B)   Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited
throughout the city:
      (1)   Signs that constitute a public or private nuisance.
      (2)   Signs that do not comply with BCO §
39.05 (General Requirements).
      (3)   Billboards shall not be allowed in the City of Banks or the Urban
Growth Boundary.
      (4)   Signs attached to, painted on, or carved into a tree, a utility
pole or a traffic pole.
      (5)   Search lights, flashing or rotating lights.
      (6)   Inflatable signs.
      (7)   Any sign for which a city permit is required, and the permit has
either expired or not been obtained.
      (8)   Signs that are abandoned, discontinued or no longer in good repair
or a threat to public safety.
      (9)   Any sign on or attached to a vehicle or trailer parked on a public
right-of-way with a display larger than two square feet.
      (10)   Any sign located on someone else’s property that has not given
permission for the sign to be located there.
      (11)   Permanent signs in the public right-of-way and any temporary sign
in the public right-of-way where the person responsible for the sign either
failed to register first with the city or the person’s identification
information is not affixed to the sign as required by §
39.03.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.03 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs are allowed in all zones, on private property and in the
public right-of-way, subject to the additional requirements of this section.
The city does not require a permit for a sign that meets the definitional
requirements of a temporary sign, but the party responsible for erecting a
temporary sign shall register with the city to ensure that all temporary signs
are removed in a timely manner.
   (A)   Temporary signs shall not:
      (1)   Be internally or externally illuminated;
      (2)   Have a display area larger than four square feet or have any part
of the sign higher than three feet above ground;
      (3)   Be located on a sidewalk, in the vehicle travel portion of the
right-of-way, or traffic round-abouts; or
      (4)   Have more than two readable faces.
   (B)   No signs, other than governmental signs, are allowed on a permanent
basis in the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Registration of temporary signs. To ensure that temporary signs, in
fact, are temporary and removed when no longer needed, the person responsible
for placement of one or more temporary signs shall register with the city on a
form provided by the city. The city reserves the right to require payment of a
deposit to ensure timely removal of all temporary signs, which shall be
refunded to the responsible person once all of the temporary signs are removed.
The city is entitled to retain the deposit if the responsible person does not
timely remove the signs, and the city removes any of the signs.
   (D)   Temporary signs may be placed in the public right-of-way, subject to
the following rules:
      (1)   Within public rights-of-way in the city, the Public Works
Department, may remove any sign during departmental operations such as mowing
or mosquito abatement, and replace the sign when these operations are
completed.
      (2)   Parties placing signs in the public right-of-way shall register
with City Hall prior to placement of any temporary sign(s) and obtain a city-
approved marking that will identify the person responsible for the sign and the
expiration date of the sign. No temporary sign is allowed in the public right-
of-way without this information on the sign.
      (3)   The city-approved marking shall be valid for 45 calendar days from
the date of issuance and is renewable twice for an additional 45 days each
(total possible of 135 days with extensions).
      (4)   The city may contact the responsible person to advise them that a
temporary sign has expired or become damaged, dilapidated or discontinued. The
party responsible for the sign shall remove or repair the sign; otherwise, the
city may remove the temporary sign without further notice. Public works crews
may remove and discard expired, damaged, dilapidated, discontinued signs or
signs that lack a city approved marking, and retain any deposit paid for the
sign(s).
      (5)   No temporary sign may be located in the travel lane of the right-
of-way, obstruct a sidewalk to a walking path narrower than three feet or
interfere with opening the door of a parked car. The city reserves the right to
exclude or remove all signs, including temporary signs from segments of the
public right of way where the city has determined that the presence of signs
will cause or exacerbate a traffic or other public safety hazard.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.04 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter is not a land use decision, is not
subject to O.R.S. Chapter 197 or 227, and is not subject to review by the Land
Use Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Any sign for which a permit is required by this chapter shall comply
with this section. Signs listed in BCO §
39.02(A) (Exemptions) are not regulated under this chapter and do not require a
permit. All other signs are either prohibited or require a permit.
      (1)   Process. Sign permit applications under this chapter shall be
processed as administrative review by the City Manager.
      (2)   Decision. Within 21 calendar days after the date an application is
submitted, the Manager shall issue a decision that approves, approves with
conditions, or denies the application. An applicant may agree in writing to
extend that time or provide additional information within that time as the city
requests. A sign permit decision shall include a brief summary of the relevant
facts and applicable standards for the application, whether and how the
application complies with those standards based on the facts and evidence, and
any conditions of approval.
      (3)   Notice of the decision. Within seven calendar days after issuing a
decision, the Manager shall mail a copy of the decision to the applicant and
applicant’s representative(s).
      (4)   Appeals and post-decision review. The applicant may appeal the
decision to the Banks City Council by submitting a written request within 14
calendar days of issuance. No appeal will be accepted or processed if received
more than 14 days after the city’s decision on the permit request.
   (C)   Application. Application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by the
required fee and shall be made in writing on forms provided by the city.
      (1)   The application shall include a complete and detailed description
of the sign and supporting structure, a scale drawing of the sign and support
structure, the proposed location, name and mailing address of the persons
responsible for the sign including, but not, limited to the sign owner and
property owner, plus any plans and information necessary to establish that the
proposed sign complies with all applicable requirements of this chapter and
applicable building, structural and life safety codes.
      (2)   The Manager may impose additional or waive certain submission
requirements depending upon the sign type, location or other circumstance.
      (3)   Any misrepresentation or falsification of information supplied in
the application may, at the option of the city, result in the invalidation of
the permit.
      (4)   The Manager may require additional review such building, foundation
or electrical permits depending on the nature of the sign proposed.
   (D)   Approval criteria. The Manager shall approve a sign permit where the
applicant demonstrates compliance with all of the following approval criteria:
      (1)   The proposed sign is not one prohibited under BCO §
39.02(B) (Prohibited Signs), and
      (2)   The proposed sign and support structure comply with all applicable
dimensional, durational, locational and other requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Exemptions to the permit requirement. The following signs may be
erected and maintained without a permit in any zoning district, provided they
are not prohibited signs, they satisfy all generally applicable regulations,
and meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Temporary signs do not require a permit so long as they meet the
definitional requirements of a temporary sign.
      (2)   A single unlit permanent sign per private property where no one
display surface area exceeds 4 square feet.
   (F)   Permit duration and automatic expiration. Once granted, the permit
holder has 90 days to erect the sign, which vests the permit; otherwise, the
permit shall automatically expire and become null and void by operation of law.
Once a sign permit is vested, it shall be valid so long as the sign is not
abandoned, altered, relocated or become obsolete. Any sign permit that the
Manager determines has become invalid, expired or obsolete shall be removed
within 90 days of that determination, including the support structure, unless a
new permit is obtained.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL SIGNS.
   (A)   General requirements. The following requirements apply to all signs
allowed in the city:
      (1)   Any permanent sign, except for a government sign, that is erected
or maintained on city property (public right-of-way, city hall, police
department, public works properties, and all city parks) requires city
approval. A temporary sign may be erected and maintained within the public
right-of-way, so long as it complies with the requirements for temporary signs
in this chapter.
      (2)   Building and specialty code compliance. All signs, whether
regulated by this chapter or not,
shall meet all applicable construction and operation standards of the
International Building Code adopted by the city. Where these codes conflict
with the requirements of this chapter, the more stringent or restrictive shall
control.
      (3)   No sign shall be insecurely erected, or constructed so as to
constitute a safety hazard, fire hazard or a nuisance.
      (4)   Sign obstructing view passage or safety. No sign shall:
         (a)   Be situated so that it physically obstructs any door, window or
building exit;
         (b)   Be located so as to obstruct or interfere with intersection
sight distance for vehicles exiting a driveway or street;
         (c)   Obstruct or interfere in any way with the public’s ability to
clearly view government signs;
         (d)   By reason of their size, location, movement, content or
coloring, may be confused with a government;
         (e)   Interfere in any way with traffic, visibility or passage within
the public right-of-way, including vehicle travel lanes, sidewalks and bike
lanes;
         (f)   Obstruct free ingress to, or egress from, any door, window, fire
escape, alley, driveway, fire lane, access along a sidewall to transit stop
areas, designated disabled parking spaces, disabled access ramps or building
exits;
         (g)   Reduces passage on a sidewalk to less than three feet or
interferes with the opening of lawfully parked cars.
      (5)   Removal. All prohibited signs and signs that do not have a valid
sign permit when one is required under this chapter are unlawful, a violation
of this chapter and shall be removed. Failure to do so shall subject the sign,
the sign owner and property owner to civil enforcement pursuant to BCO
Chapter 37 (Civil Enforcement).
      (6)   Lighting. Signs, excluding temporary signs and signs in residential
zones, may be lit, either from within the sign structure or by external lights
shining on the sign face. Lights, when allowed, shall be aimed downward and
shall not shine directly onto an adjacent property, buildings or the public
right-of-way or to cast glare into the eyes of pedestrians or motorists in the
public rights-of-way. Sign lights shall not substitute for security or safety
lighting that may otherwise be required.
      (7)   Prohibited types of lights. Flashing, strobes and rotating lights
are prohibited in all situations. No sign shall be erected or maintained which,
by use of the lights or illumination, creates an unduly distracting and
hazardous condition to a motorist, pedestrian or the general public.
      (8)   Property owner consent. No sign shall be erected on property or a
structure (e.g., a building or utility pole) owned by someone other than the
person responsible for the sign without the express written consent of the
property’s owner. If the City cannot verify owner consent, the sign will be
deemed unlawful and subject to removal.
   (B)   Any sign that is structurally altered, relocated or replaced shall be
brought into compliance with all applicable substantive requirements of this
chapter, including the requirement to obtain a permit. A change to the text or
message is not a modification under this section. Any modification to a sign
for which a permit has been issued shall be processed as an administrative
review in the same manner as for a new sign.
   (C)   Variances. After receiving a written request from the sign owner, the
city may grant a variance to one or more numeric or dimensional requirements of
this chapter, except that none of the prohibited signs in BCO §
39.02(B) (Prohibited Signs) is allowed through a variance procedure.
      (1)   Variance criteria. A variance shall be approved if all of the
following criteria are met:
         (a)   Exceptional, extraordinary or unusual circumstances that are not
self-imposed that do not apply to other properties in the same area or zone are
present. Such circumstances may be the result of an unusual location or
orientation of the applicant’s building, topography, vegetation or other
circumstance over which the applicant has no control.
         (b)   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a right of the
applicant that is substantially the same as rights possessed by the owners of
other property in the area or zone.
         (c)   The granting of a variance will not be materially detrimental
to, or conflict with, the purposes of this chapter, or be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the area or vicinity, or the public way, in
which the property is located.
         (d)   The variance requested is the minimum exception to the
established requirements that is necessary to alleviate the claimed grounds for
variance.
         (e)   The requested variance does not exceed of the dimensional
standard at issue by more than 40%.
      (2)   Conditions for granting a variance. The city may impose any
condition of approval to a sign permit or variance that is reasonably needed to
ensure that the sign complies with all applicable requirements. Such conditions
may include limitations on the sign design, area, height, location, or a
requirement for compliance with the downtown design guidelines.
      (3)   Variance fee. The applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with the
fee schedule established and amended from time to time by the city council and
on file with the city clerk.
      (4)   Procedure. Variance requests shall be processed as administrative
decisions in connection with the underlying sign permit application, heard and
decided in conjunction with the underlying sign permit application.
         (a)   Notice of application. Within 14 calendar days after the date an
application for a sign permit variance is received, the Manager shall invite
the public to comment on the variance request. The Manager shall:
            1.   Mail a written notice of the application to property owners
within 300 feet of the subject sign site; and
            2.   Post a notice of the variance request on the subject property
which is visible legible to the public.
         (b)   Comment period. The notice shall provide for a 14-day public
comment period from the date of mailing the notice.
         (c)   Comments. The Manager shall mail to the applicant a copy of
comments timely received in response to the notice together with a statement
that the applicant may respond to the comments within 14 calendar days from the
date the comments are mailed.
         (d)   Decision.
            1.   Within 14 calendar days after the date a variance request is
received the Manager shall issue a decision that approves, approves with
conditions, or denies the variance; provided, that an applicant may agree to
extend that time and may provide additional information within that time at the
request of the city.
            2.   The decision shall include a brief summary of the relevant
facts and applicable standards for the variance request and a summary of how
the request complies with those standards based on the facts and evidence,
including any conditions of approval.
      (5)   Notice of decision. Within seven calendar days after issuing a sign
permit decision, the Manager shall mail notice of the decision to the parties
of interest including, but not limited to, the applicant and anyone who
commented on the application.
      (6)   Appeal. Any appeal of a sign variance decision shall be perfected
in accordance with the procedures for appealing a sign permit and will be heard
by the City Council consistent with established City procedures for public
hearings.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.06 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   The following regulations apply to signs in all of the city’s residential
zones, in addition to the sign regulations that are generally applicable
throughout the city.
   (A)   Signs allowed without a permit.
      (1)   Any sign for which a permit is required by this chapter shall
comply with this section. Signs exempt under BCO §
39.02(A) (Exemptions) are not regulated under this chapter and do not require a
permit. All other signs are either prohibited or require a permit.
      (2)   Portable signs may be displayed within the public right-of-way in
the residential zone between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. subject to the
following limitations:
         (a)   The sign is on a sidewalk, within 6 inches of the curb and
entirely outside the driving and on-street parking portion of the right-of-way;
         (b)   The sign area does not exceed 2.5 feet wide by 2.5 feet high and
is no taller than 4 feet above average grade;
         (c)   The sign does not obstruct a continuous through pedestrian zone
of at least three feet in width; and
         (d)   The sign does not obstruct pedestrian or wheelchair access along
the sidewalk, from the sidewalk to transit stop areas, designated disabled
parking spaces, disabled access ramps or building exits.
         (e)   The sign, when next to an on-street parallel parking space, does
not obstruct the free opening of vehicle doors and access of passengers into
and out of parked cars.
   (B)   Signs allowed with a permit. The following signs are allowed in the
city’s residential zones so long as a permit is first obtained:
      (1)   Monument signs.
         (a)   A monument-style sign may be placed at the entrance to a
subdivision; provided, that it is not larger than 32 square feet in area and is
located on a separate non-developable tract owned and maintained by a
homeowner’s association.
         (b)   A monument sign may be placed at the entrance to an apartment
complex provided it is not larger than 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   Other signs. A single sign is permitted on one residential lot
provided the sign is not larger than six square feet in area.
      (3)   Non-residential uses. One bulletin board, reader board or monument
sign not exceeding 25 square feet in area and 6 feet in height when associated
with lawful uses on lots 5,000 square feet or less.
      (4)   Multiple-family developments containing four or more units shall be
allowed one sign limited to 20 square feet in area and not exceeding six feet
in height, located at each entrance to the building complex. In addition, at
each entrance, there may be a sign not to exceed 15 square feet in area
containing a map showing the location of individual units.
   (C)    Unless specifically allowed by the preceding subsections, illuminated
or signs that are lighted from within or by an external light, excluding
addresses or wall plaques less than two square feet, are prohibited in the
city’s residential zones.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.07 SIGNS IN THE CITY’S COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   The following regulations apply to the city’s commercial zones, in addition
to any generally applicable regulations.
   (A)   All signs in the city’s commercial zones shall:
      (1)   Use materials compatible with the facade materials.
      (2)   Avoid highly reflective materials and surfacing, limit the use of
plastic, and employ painted wood or metal where reasonably feasible.
      (3)   Apply letter or painted signs to the building face where reasonably
feasible.
      (4)   Use fonts which complement the period of the building’s
architecture.
      (5)   Avoid use of reader boards consistent with this chapter.
      (6)   Avoid corporate design standards which cannot be used as a
justification for granting a variance to this chapter.
      (7)   Be externally illuminated by downward facing light sources.
      (8)   Mounted so that the sign does not obscure significant architectural
details.
   (B)   Signs allowed without a permit. Signs exempt under BCO §
39.02(A) (Exemptions) are not regulated under this chapter and therefore do not
require a permit. Incidental signs are allowed without a permit so long as the
definitional requirements of an incidental sign are met. All other signs are
either prohibited or require a permit.
   (C)   Signs allowed with a permit. The following signs are allowed in the
city’s commercial zones so long as a permit is first obtained:
      (1)   Wall signs. One wall sign is allowed per business on each property,
with a maximum area of 36 square feet per wall sign. The collective area of all
wall signs on any facade of a multi-tenant building shall not exceed 15% of the
facade’s area. Wall signs shall not stand more than 12 inches from the wall.
      (2)   Portable signs. One portable sign may be displayed in the public
right-of-way per business during business hours, subject to the following
limitations:
         (a)   The sign is entirely outside the driving and on-street parking
portion of the right-of-way.
         (b)   The sign is no larger than seven square feet in size. The sign
face is no wider than two feet and no taller than 42 inches.
         (c)   The sign is within six inches of the curb.
         (d)   The sign does not obstruct a continuous through pedestrian zone
of at least three feet in width.
         (e)   The sign does not obstruct pedestrian or wheelchair access from
the sidewalk to transit stop areas, designated disabled parking spaces,
disabled access ramps or building exits.
      (3)   Electronic reader board signs. One LED electronic reader board sign
is allowed per property, so long as the sign message area is no larger than 20
square feet, and no part of the sign or support structure is higher than 25
feet above grade. Video display reader boards are prohibited.
      (4)   Street banners. Street banners may be erected in or over the public
right-of-way subject to first obtaining a city sign permit and compliance with
all conditions attached to that permit. All other banners shall be regulated as
signs under this chapter.
      (5)   Window displays - temporary. Artwork and text affixed to windows
shall not exceed 60% of the window area if temporary.
      (6)   Window displays - permanent. Artwork and text affixed to windows
shall not exceed 25% of the total window area. The sign area of each window
shall be deducted from the maximum sign area permitted for wall signs. Hours of
operation or open/close signs shall not count toward sign allowance.
      (7)   Monument signs. The sign area of a monument sign shall not exceed
40 square feet, and the highest point of the monument sign shall be no higher
than five feet above average finished grade. No more than one monument sign
shall be permitted per lot.
      (8)   Projecting signs. Where a building is built to the property line, a
projecting sign may extend over the public right of way. The signs’ supporting
structure shall not extend more than 42 inches from the building wall and the
sign face shall be no more than 36 inches wide and 16 square feet in area per
face. Any projecting signs shall be no closer than 8 feet above the sidewalk
finished grade. The top of the sign shall not exceed the ridgeline of the
building.
      (9)   Awning signs.
         (a)   The maximum total area for each awning sign shall be based on
the horizontal lineal length of the awning where the sign is to be located.
Awning signs shall not exceed one square foot per two horizontal lineal feet of
awning.
         (b)   The area of a sign on an awning shall be deducted from the wall
sign area permitted.
         (c)   The lowest point of the awning must be at least 8 feet above the
sidewalk.
      (10)   Directory signs. directory signs are used for multi-unit tenant
buildings and are small scale, oriented to pedestrians. These are different
from directional signs which are more auto-oriented.) A directory sign may be
free standing or may be wall mounted.
         (a)   One directory sign may be permitted per premise.
         (b)   Directory signs shall be no larger than 12 feet in area.
         (c)   Directory signs shall have a maximum height of five feet.
      (11)   Shopping center signs.
         (a)   A shopping center shall be allowed one free standing sign in
compliance with this chapter, indicating the total shopping center use or
listing of uses.
         (b)   Each business in the shopping center shall be allowed signage in
compliance with §
39.07(C).
         (c)   No additional free standing or monument signs shall be allowed
within the shopping center.
      (12)   Drive through menu boards.
         (a)   Menu boards shall not be placed in required setbacks.
         (b)   Maximum height of the menu sign shall be eight feet and maximum
size shall be 30 square feet.
         (c)   Each drive through shall be limited to two menu boards.
      (13)   Hanging signs.
         (a)   Hanging signs shall maintain a minimum seven-foot clearance
above pathways from the bottom of the sign to finished grade.
         (b)   One hanging sign is allowed for each business storefront.
         (c)   Individual hanging signs shall not exceed 6 square feet in area.
   (D)   Signs prohibited in commercial zones. Feather signs are prohibited in
the City’s commercial zones, as are all signs that are generally prohibited
throughout the city.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.08 SIGNS IN THE CITY’S INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   The following regulations apply to the city’s industrial zones, in addition
to any generally applicable regulations.
   (A)   All signs shall satisfy the requirements of BCO §
39.05 (General Requirements), unless otherwise allowed in this section.
   (B)   Signs allowed without a permit. Signs exempt under BCO §
39.02(A) (Exemptions) are not regulated under this chapter and therefore do not
require a permit. Incidental signs are allowed without a permit so long as the
definitional requirements of an incidental sign are met. All other signs are
either prohibited or require a permit.
   (C)   On-premise freestanding signs.
      (1)   Allowable area: one square foot per lineal foot of street frontage,
up to a maximum of 200 square feet, provided that each business frontage shall
be guaranteed a minimum of 36 square feet of sign area. (Note to reader: modern
codes use a ratio based on one square foot per lineal foot. The maximum is a
good idea to ensure that large sites do permit extra-large sign sizes.)
      (2)   Number of signs: one per street frontage. A second sign may be
placed, with the maximum sign area distributed between two signs, along the
street frontage, provided that a distance of 200 feet between signs is
maintained.
      (3)   Height of sign: maximum 30 feet.
   (D)   On-premise wall signs.
      (1)   Allowable area: one square foot per linear foot of building
frontage (if a freestanding sign is also placed), per abutting street frontage,
as measured horizontally along a side building elevation, up to a maximum of
200 square feet per sign; provided that each building is guaranteed a minimum
of a 36 square foot sign. The maximum sign area may be distributed among any
number of signs. This subsection applies to sites that also have a freestanding
sign. Subsection (D)(2), below, applies if there are no freestanding signs.
      (2)   Allowable area if no freestanding sign is present: 1.5 square feet
per lineal foot of building frontage, per abutting street frontage, as measured
horizontally along a side building elevation, up to a maximum of 300 square
feet per sign, with a guaranteed minimum of 54 square feet of sign area per
building.
      (3)   Projecting signs are prohibited in the Industrial zone.
      (4)   The maximum sign area for an individual wall may be distributed
among any number of wall signs.
   (E)   Business complex signs. A business complex sign may be placed, either
monument style or freestanding, at the main entrance of each industrial or
business complex, based on the following specifics:
      (1)   Allowable area: one square foot per lineal foot of street frontage
of the premises, up to a maximum of 200 square feet for each sign; provided
that every business complex shall be guaranteed a minimum of 64 square feet of
signage.
      (2)   Number of signs: one per complex entrance as allowed by site plan
approval. A second complex sign may be placed at a second entrance, if desired.
      (3)   Height of sign: a maximum of 30 feet.
      (4)   Space shall be made available for businesses to be listed on the
business complex sign directory, if desired by the business.
   (F)   Directional signs. Directional signs may not exceed six square feet
per sign side and a maximum height of 42 inches. One directional sign is
allowed per abutting street frontage entrance or exit.
   (G)   No more than three feather signs are allowed along the frontage of
each legal lot in an industrial zone and are only allowed as temporary signs.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.09 SIGNS IN THE MU (MIXED-USE) ZONE.
   The following regulations apply to the city’s mixed use zone, in addition to
any generally applicable regulations.
   (A)   All signs shall satisfy the requirements of BCO §
39.05 (General Requirements) unless otherwise allowed in this section.
   (B)   Signs allowed without a permit. Signs exempt under BCO §
39.02(A) (Exemptions) are not regulated under this chapter and therefore do not
require a permit. Incidental signs are allowed without a permit so long as the
definitional requirements of an incidental sign are met. All other signs are
either prohibited or require a permit.
   (C)   Total sign coverage may not exceed one square foot per one linear foot
of building frontage, per abutting street frontage, with an allowable minimum
of 36 square feet and a maximum of 120 square feet per business. The maximum
sign area may be distributed among any number of signs. (Note to reader: the
way this provision is written allows for flexibility, while ensuring a maximum
square footage is met).
      (1)   Wall sign. Maximum sign face area for an individual wall sign shall
not exceed 36 square feet.
      (2)   Monument sign. The sign area of a monument sign shall not exceed 40
square feet, and the highest point of the monument sign shall be no higher than
five feet above average finished grade.
      (3)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   No sign shall project out more than six feet from the wall of
the building.
         (b)   No part of a projecting sign may be lower than eight feet above
the sidewalk. The eight-foot height restriction does not apply to signs
extending over private property.
         (c)   The maximum sign area of a projecting sign shall not exceed five
square feet.
      (4)   Business complex sign. A business complex sign shall not exceed 50
square feet in sign area or 12 feet in height above finished grade. One
business complex grouping of signs may be installed on any one abutting street
frontage; a second sign is allowed if the site has two street frontages.
      (5)    Portable signs shall not exceed 7 square feet, 42 inches in
height, and 24 inches in width per each sign side. A portable sign may be in
place during hours of operation only and kept indoors outside of the hours of
operation. One portable sign is allowed per licensed business. Portable signs
in the MU district shall meet all of the following standards:
         (a)   Signs may be placed in the right-of-way provided that the sign
placement maintains a five-foot-wide clear zone for pedestrian movement along
the full frontage of the parcel and does not create any sight distance
obstruction at any intersection.
         (b)   Signs shall be constructed of finished materials to create a
professional appearance.
      (6)   Directional signs. Directional signs may not exceed six square feet
per sign side or a maximum height of 42 inches. One directional sign if allowed
per abutting street frontage entrance or exit. Feather signs are prohibited in
the Mixed Use zone.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.10 SIGNS IN THE CF (COMMUNITY FACILITIES) ZONE.
   The following regulations apply to the city’s Community Facility zone, in
addition to any generally applicable regulations.
   (A)   All signs shall satisfy the requirements of BCO §
39.05 (General Requirements) unless otherwise allowed in this section.
   (B)   Total sign coverage may not exceed one square foot per lineal foot of
building frontage, per abutting street frontage, with an allowable minimum of
36 square feet and a maximum of 120 square feet per public entity. The maximum
sign area may be distributed among any number of signs. Signs advertising
products sold and/or produced, or services rendered on the premises, are
permitted as follows:
      (1)   Wall sign. Maximum sign face area for an individual wall sign shall
not exceed 120 square feet.
      (2)   Freestanding sign. One freestanding sign is allowed per building
not to exceed 20 feet in height and 120 square feet in area and no more than
two such signs per building site complex. Any freestanding sign in a building
site complex shall be a complex sign.
      (3)   Projecting sign. Projecting sign shall not exceed sign square feet
in sign area. No part of the projecting sign shall be lower than eight feet
from the ground surface, project no more than six feet from the building face,
and shall not extend six inches above the roof line. One projecting sign is
allowed for each customer entrance into a building.
      (4)   Business complex sign. A business complex sign shall not exceed 120
square feet in area and eight feet in height. Any freestanding sign in a
building site complex shall be a complex sign. One group complex sign may be
installed on any one street frontage.
      (5)   Portable signs. Portable signs are prohibited in the CF Zone.
      (6)   Directional signs. Directional signs may not exceed 6 square feet
per sign side nor taller than of 42 inches. One directional sign is allowed per
street frontage entrance or exit.
      (7)   Electronic reader board signs. One LED electronic reader board sign
is allowed per property, so long as the sign message area is no larger than 20
square feet, and no part of the sign or support structure is higher than 25
feet above grade. Video display reader boards are prohibited. Electronic reader
board signs shall not consist of moving, rotating or otherwise animated part,
or any flashing, blinking, fluctuating or otherwise animated light.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.11 IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS SIGN CODE.
   All signs lawfully established and existing on the date the ordinance
codified in this chapter is adopted shall be allowed to continue in their then-
existing condition provided they are maintained in a good state of repair, are
safe, and do not change or expand. Any change to such a preexisting sign,
including a change to the text or expressive content, shall require the sign to
comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter. Any such preexisting
sign that is subsequently damaged or destroyed by fire, storm, theft, vehicle
collision or some similar cause not intended by the owner may be repaired or
replaced as it existed prior to the damage or destruction so long as the
replacement is completed within one year of when the damage or destruction
occurred.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.12 CONFLICT AND SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with
any zoning, building, fire safety, health or other code provision of the city,
the provision that establishes the higher, stricter or more specific standard
shall prevail. A finding by a court of competent jurisdiction that any portion
of this chapter is invalid shall not invalidate the remaining portions. A
permit issued pursuant to this chapter does not grant any authority to violate
any other law or regulation that may apply.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.13 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   The city may, without notice, remove any prohibited sign, including signs
for which a permit is required but do not have one and signs which are
abandoned or obsolete. In addition to any other provisions of the BCO, it is
unlawful for any person or entity to erect, maintain or display a sign in
violation of this chapter or to have such a sign on their property. All
violations of this chapter are deemed to be a nuisance and subject to civil
enforcement under BCO
Chapter 37, (Civil Enforcement). Signs found to be erected, maintained or
displayed in violation of this chapter may be removed by the city and the
property and sign owner may be subject to enforcement and possible fines and
other penalties.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
§ 39.14 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall control the interpretation of this chapter:
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign, the face of which has been intentionally or
unintentionally removed or is broken and is not refaced within 180 days
thereafter. ABANDONED SIGNS shall also include signs with rusted, faded,
peeled, cracked or otherwise deteriorated materials or finishes that have not
been repaired within 90 days after the city provides notice of the sign’s
deteriorated condition under the city’s enforcement chapter BCO
Chapter 37  (Civil Enforcement).
   ALTER including ALTERATION or ALTERED SIGN. Change the copy, color, size,
shape, illumination, position, location, construction or supporting structure
of a sign, not including ordinary maintenance.
   AWNING. An architectural projection that provides weather protection,
identity or decoration and is wholly supported by the building to which it is
attached. An awning is comprised of a lightweight, rigid skeleton structure
over which a covering is attached.
   BANNER. A sign made of cloth, canvas, plastic film or some similarly
flexible material without a rigid frame or surface. Banners include signs over
the street or on poles along the right-of-way.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign with a display surface of 200 square feet or more.
   BUSINESS COMPLEX SIGN. A sign, which is designed to identify a business
complex where no single business identification and/or advertisement occupies
more than 50% of the sign area.
   BUILDING DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign giving the name, address, number or location
of the occupants of a building or buildings.
   BUILDING FACE OF WALL. All window and wall area of a building in one plane
or elevation.
   BULLETIN BOARD OR READER BOARD. means a sign of permanent nature, but which
accommodates changeable copy to announce an event or attraction or used to
convey a specific message related to the building or use of property on which
the bulletin board is located.
   COPY. The text, letters, numbers, symbols and any other sort of graphical
expressive content.
   DEPARTMENT. Banks Department of Public Works.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign within or adjacent to a right-of-way used
primarily to give information about wayfinding of locations or destination.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director or assignee.
   DIRECTORY SIGNS. Signs used for multi-tenant buildings to provide a
directory of tenant locations within the building. They may also serve as the
address sign for the property. DIRECTORY SIGNS are small scale and are oriented
to pedestrians.
   DISCONTINUED. To cease doing or providing (something), intentionally or
unintentionally.
   DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. The total area of a sign including all sides that are
available for displaying advertising or an informational message.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN. A sign which has two sign surfaces back-to-back.
   ELECTRONIC READER BOARD. A visual display board that conveys information
electronically about a wide variety of subjects, including advertising for
products or services, travel, news or event information.
   ERECT or ERECTED. To construct, build, assemble, alter, or otherwise place a
sign at the location where it is to be used.
   FEATHER SIGN. A vertical portable sign that contains a harpoon-style pole or
staff driven into the ground for support or supported by means of an individual
stand.
   FLAG. A flat piece of pliable material with distinctive colors, patterns or
symbols, having one end of the cloth attached to a vertical staff (directly or
by rope and pulley mechanism) and all other ends free flowing under natural
movement of wind.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign and its support pole or base standing directly on
the ground that is independent from any building or other structure.
   FRONTAGE. The boundary between a single parcel and the public right-of-way.
For purposes of this sign code, where a property abuts only one right-of-way,
it has only one FRONTAGE. Where a property is a corner lot or otherwise abuts
more than one right-of-way, it has two or more FRONTAGES.
   GOVERNMENT and GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. Signs installed, erected, maintained or
required by the city, county, or a federal or state governmental agency.
   GROUND-MOUNTED. Not attached to any structure or building.
   HANGING SIGN. A sign which has one or more edges of the sign attached to a
supporting structure above it.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The overall height of the sign above grade directly below or
at the base of the sign.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A small wall- or window-mounted sign (two square feet or
smaller).
   INFLATABLE SIGN. Any object enlarged or inflated which floats, is tethered
in the air, is activated  by air or moving gas, or is located on the ground or
on a building with or without copy or other graphic.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign that is not supported by poles or columns
and the base of the sign is in contact with the ground and the base is the full
width of the sign face.
   MURAL. An exterior wall painted with artwork or some expressive content or
message with no frame or other associated structure. The MURAL is the layer of
paint on the wall.
   PEDESTRIAN ZONE. An area designated on the junction subarea map as a
location primarily designed for pedestrian access and mobility.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign constructed of weather resistant material and
intended for permanent use and that does not otherwise meet the definition of
“temporary sign”. Wall mounted sign holders designed for insertion of signs and
posters shall be considered permanent signage and subject to all standards of
this chapter.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A free-standing sign that is readily moveable and not
permanently affixed to the ground, including A-frame or sandwich board signs,
pole signs mounted on weighted bases, and similar signs that are used on more
than a temporary basis.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to a building with the face not parallel to
the vertical surface of the building. PROJECTING SIGNS include signs projecting
directly from walls.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Any state board, commission, committee, department, educational
institution, or other state agency which is created by or pursuant to statute,
other than courts and the legislature;
      (2)   Any county, city, school district, special purpose district, or
other municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state of Oregon;
      (3)   Any sub agency of a public agency which is created by or pursuant
to statute, ordinance, or other legislative act, including but not limited to
planning commissions, library or park boards, commissions, and agencies.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON or PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR A SIGN. The person or party
responsible for the content and/or erection and distribution of a sign whose
contact information is identified on the sign.
   SIGN. Letters, figures, symbols, trademarks, or logos, with or without
illumination, intended to identify any place, subject, person, firm, business,
product, article, merchandise or point of sale. A SIGN also includes balloons
attached to sign structures, products, streamers, spinners, pennants, flags,
inflatables or similar devices intended to attract attention to a site or
business, as well as architectural or structural forms, illuminated panels,
spandrels, awnings and other structural or architectural features not common to
classic vernacular or non-corporate regional architecture and that are intended
to convey a brand, message or otherwise advertise a location or product,
whether or not such features include text or graphics and whether or not they
serve other practical purposes such as lighting, covering or enclosure of
persons or products. A SIGN includes any device which streams, televises or
otherwise conveys electronic visual messages, pictures, videos or images, with
or without sound or odors.
   SIGN AREA. The area of the largest rectangular portion of a face of a
building to which a sign is affixed or proposed to be affixed, which can be
included within parallel, vertical and horizontal lines uninterrupted by
significant architectural features of the building.
   SIGN FACE. The total of display surface area visible from one side of a
sign.
   TEMPORARY SIGN (which may include special event signs). Any sign that is
used on a temporary basis for a period of 45 days or less (plus allowable
extensions), and is not permanently mounted, painted or otherwise affixed,
excluding portable signs as defined by this chapter, including any poster,
banner, placard, stake sign or sign not placed in the ground with concrete or
other means to provide permanent support, stability and rot prevention.
TEMPORARY SIGNS may only be made of non-durable materials including, but not
limited to, paper, corrugated board, flexible, bendable or foldable plastic,
foam core board, vinyl canvas, a vinyl mesh product of less than 20 oz. fabric,
vinyl canvas and vinyl mesh products without polymeric plasticizers and signs
painted or drawn with water soluble paints or chalks.
   WALL SIGN. A physical sign structure, including fabric or a film, but not a
layer of paint, attached to or hung upon on an exterior wall containing
expressive content.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-8-2018)
CHAPTER 40: PARK SERVICES FEE
Section
   
40.01   Purposes of park services fee
   
40.02   Definitions
   
40.03   Establishment and imposition of park services fee
   
40.04   Amount of the park services fee
   
40.05   Dedicated funds
   
40.06   Billing
   
40.07   Payment due date
   
40.08   Adjustment of accounts
   
40.09   Delinquency and collection
§ 40.01 PURPOSES OF PARK SERVICES FEE.
   The City Council adopts the following in support of the park services fee as
provided in this chapter.
   (A)   The purpose of the park services fee is to provide a stable funding
source for city park facilities and services, including acquisition of
parkland, park equipment, facilities and infrastructure, park operations and
maintenance.
   (B)   Well-maintained parks safeguard, facilitate, and encourage the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents, visitors and business enterprises in the
City of Banks. Stable and reliable park services and facilities provide a
multitude of economic and social benefits to the public, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Promotion of business and industry within the city by providing
clean and well-maintained public spaces and facilities;
      (2)   Promotion of community health and physical fitness by providing
recreational opportunities within the city;
      (3)   Promotion of mental health and spiritual well-being by providing
public open space for passive or active recreation.
   (C)   All developed property within the city receive a direct or indirect
benefit from city park services and well-maintained park facilities. Well-
maintained parks are a community asset to all residential and commercial
properties in the city.
   (D)   Residents living outside the city limits that are water utility
customers and are located within the Banks Urban Growth Boundary are considered
to be part of the Banks community. These people are part of and participate in
the city and its events and derive direct and indirect benefits from the city
and its parks, including the use and enjoyment of its park facilities and
programs. Accordingly, Banks water utility customers living outside the city
limits shall be subject to the park services fee as provided for in this
chapter.
   (E)   Commercial properties within the city also derive a direct or indirect
commercial benefit from their proximity to the city's parks and use of city
parks by customers, employees and owners. As such, commercial properties in the
city have an economic interest in the city's parks being attractive, well
maintained, competently operated, and adequately funded.
   (F)   A park services fee is necessary to provide a stable funding mechanism
to help pay for the benefits of park facilities and services and to provide an
acceptable level of service to the city's residents, visitors and commercial
enterprises.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. A premises, or a portion of a premises, not used for
personal, domestic accommodation in independent living facilities. A non-
residential unit includes, but is not limited to, governmental, not-for-profit,
business, commercial and industrial enterprises. Each portion of a non-
residential unit that has permanent provisions for distinct and defined access
to an individual enterprise shall be considered as a separate non-residential
unit. Enterprises that provide senior living, assisted living, nursing care and
similar services exclusively shall be considered non-residential for purposes
of this chapter.
   PREMISES. A parcel or portion of a parcel of land that receives a direct or
indirect benefit from park services. It is presumed that a premises located
within the city limits receives a direct or indirect benefit from city park
services. It is presumed that a premises receives a direct or indirect benefit
from city park services if the premises is developed and/or receives city water
service. A premises is presumed to be developed if served by water, stormwater,
wastewater utility, or has improvements, including, but not limited to
buildings, parking lots or outdoor storage.
   RESIDENTIAL. A premises or a portion of a premises with 1 or more rooms in a
building or portion thereof designed for or that provides complete independent
living facilities for 1 or more persons and includes permanent provisions for
sleeping, cooking and sanitation. An accessory or ancillary residential unit on
a premises shall be considered as a separate residential unit. In premises with
2 or more apartments, condominiums, mobile homes, or other residential units,
each residential unit shall be considered as a separate residential unit for
purposes of calculating the park services fee. Premises or portions of premises
primarily used for transient lodging whose occupants are subject to the Banks
Transient Occupancy Tax shall not be considered a residential unit.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND IMPOSITION OF PARK SERVICES FEE.
   (A)   Except as exempted below, beginning with the July 2020 water utility
bills, a park services fee is established, imposed upon, and shall be charged
to all premises within the corporate limits of the City of Banks and to all
premises located outside the city limits but inside the city's urban growth
area that are customers of the city's water utility. Unless otherwise
specifically exempt, the park services fee applies to all private and publicly
owned properties that have City of Banks water utility accounts, including
those owned or operated by county, state and federal governments, and special
districts. The park services fee also applies to utility accounts that serve
premises that are entitled to an exemption from or deferral of ad valorem
property taxes, as well as to developed premises within the city that are not
city water utility customers. The following types of premises are specifically
exempt from payment of the park services fee:
      (1)   Premises owned by the City of Banks or the Banks Urban Renewal
Agency that are property-tax exempt are exempt from the payment of the park
services fee.
      (2)   Unimproved premises within the City of Banks, regardless of whether
they are city water utility customers, are exempt from the payment of the park
services fee. For purposes of this exemption, "unimproved" means there is no
structure on the premises designed or used for human occupation.
   (B)   For residentially developed Premises inside and outside the city
limits that are subject to this chapter, which includes single-family and
multi-family structures, the park services fee shall be based on a monthly
amount per residential unit established by Council resolution multiplied by the
number of residential units on the premises. These premises shall be billed
through the city's water utility accounting system. For residentially developed
premises that are subject to this chapter but not on the city's water utility
billing system, the city shall issue a monthly billing statement to the address
listed in the most recent Washington County property tax record.
   (C)   For non-residentially developed premises that are subject to this
chapter, the park services fee shall be based on the water meter size, with a
3/4-inch meter being equivalent to a single-family residence. The city shall
adopt a rate methodology by Council resolution that imposes a monthly fee
proportionate to the premises' user demand for, and impact upon, the city's
park system or benefit derived from the city's park system.
   (D)   The park services fee provided for in this chapter does not create an
obligation of the property or premises, and the obligation to pay the park
services fee is a personal obligation of the owner or water service customer
responsible for payment of the city water utility account. No lien will attach
to any premises because of the nonpayment of the park services fee.
   (E)   The park services fee described herein is a user utility fee and not
subject to the property tax limitations of Article IX, Sections 11b and 11(19)
of the Oregon Constitution. The park services fee is not a fee imposed on
property or property owners by fact of ownership.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.04 AMOUNT OF THE PARK SERVICES FEE.
   The amount of the park services fee shall be set by Banks Council Resolution
as a monthly charge per dwelling, for residential premises, or a monthly charge
based upon water meter size. However, the amount shall not exceed $10 per month
per residential unit or equivalent. In addition, the Council may set by
resolution fees for extra services required in collecting delinquent customer
accounts for the park services fee.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.05 DEDICATED FUNDS.
   (A)   There shall be established a park services fund. All park services fee
revenues collected under this chapter shall be deposited in the park services
fund.
   (B)   Money in the park services fund shall be used for the purposes of city
park maintenance, operation and improvements, including park capital
improvements, as determined each year by the city council during the budget
process. The park services fee shall not be used for any other governmental or
proprietary functions of the city. Any revenues in excess of actual expenses as
identified in the budget process shall be retained and carried forward to next
year's budget.
   (C)   The park services fund revenues shall be in addition to park funding
from the city's general fund budgeted revenues and shall not supplant the
general fund allocation for parks according to budget policy.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.06 BILLING.
   (A)   The customer(s) responsible for paying the city water utility account
shall be responsible for payment of the park services fee. For non-utility
premises, the property owner shown in the most recent Washington County tax
records shall be the party responsible for payment of the park services fee.
   (B)   The city shall collect the park services fee by adding the parks
service fee to the water utility bill of each customer that receives water
service from the City of Banks. For non-utility accounts, the billing shall be
mailed to the property owner's address as set forth in the Washington County
property records, unless such owner requests the billing be sent to a different
address.
   (C)   If a premises has more than 1 utility account, the park services fee
for the premises shall be calculated based on the total number of residential
units and non-residential units on the premises. The residential units and non-
residential units may be combined into one account or allocated to each
account.
   (D)   Charges for water and the park services fee may be billed on the same
utility bill. If full payment of the utility bill is not made, payment shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   Park services fee; and
      (2)   Water utility rates and charges.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.07 PAYMENT DUE DATE.
   The park services fee shall be due the same date as the water utility bill.
For non-utility accounts, payment shall be due no earlier than the twenty-
second of the month the bill is sent.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.08 ADJUSTMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Customers who believe their park services fee, as applied to their
premises, is not within the intent of this chapter may request, in writing, a
review of their park services fee by the Finance Director. If so requested, the
Finance Director shall determine whether the park services fee under review
meets the impact and benefit assumptions set forth in § 40.01 and that the fee
charged is fair given the impact of, or benefit to, the owner, residents or
users of the property in question.
      (1)   If a customer's charge is reduced as a result of this review, the
corrected park services fee shall begin with the next billing and a credit or
refund shall be made retroactively, not to exceed 1 year from the last billing.
      (2)   If a customer's charge is increased as a result of this review, the
corrected park services fee shall begin with the next billing and the customer
may be billed for the increase retroactively, not to exceed one year from the
last billing.
   (B)   If an existing customer has not been billed for the park services fee
when it should have been and the omission comes to the Finance Director's
attention, the park services fee shall begin with the next billing, and the
customer may be billed retroactively, not to exceed 1 year.
   (C)   Customers not satisfied with the results of the Finance Director's
review may appeal the Finance Director's decision to the Banks City Council,
which shall determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, whether the Finance
Director's decision should be upheld, reversed, or upheld in part and reversed
in part. A notice of appeal must be in writing and physically delivered to the
Finance Director no later than 14 calendar days from the date of the Finance
Director's decision. The hearing before the Banks City Council shall be
conducted no later than 30 days after the date the city receives the appeal
notice, unless a different date is stipulated by the city and the customer, or
good cause is shown for setting the matter over. Testimony at the hearing shall
be taken upon oath or affirmation of the witnesses. The City Council shall
consider only the matters set forth in the notice of appeal. The findings and
decision of the City Council shall be served upon the customer by first class
mail within 10 days after the hearing concludes. The City Council's decision
shall be effective 10 days following the date of the decision and shall be the
city's final decision, subject to review only by O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100, which
shall be the customer's sole remedy.
   (D)   The Finance Director may write-off closed accounts and retroactive
bills if it is in the best interest of the city and may write off refunds,
unless the customer requests otherwise, if the cost of making the refund would
exceed the amount of the refund.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 40.09 DELINQUENCY AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   A park services fee is delinquent if full payment is not received on
or before the due date.
   (B)   If a customer's water utility account is delinquent, the city may
discontinue water services to that premises. The city may refuse to restore
water service to any premises if service has been terminated or stopped for any
reason, the property owner requests resumption of service, and there is an
outstanding unpaid water service charge or unpaid park services fee owning for
the premises.
   (C)   Delinquent amounts owing may be collected by all legal means,
including, but not limited to referral or assignment of the debt to a
collection agency.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed 2-11-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER
   
51.   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Water system rules, requirements and regulations
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Service area
   
50.04   Description of service
   
50.05   Application and administration of water service; billing
   
50.06   Main extension
   
50.07   Services
   
50.08   Meters
   
50.09   Notices
   
50.10   Billing, payment and the city’s remedies for past-due bills: service
termination and right to lien
   
50.11   Meter error
   
50.12   Discontinuance of service
   
50.13   Restoration of service
   
50.14   Unusual demands
   
50.15   Access to property
   
50.16   Responsibility for equipment
   
50.17   Fire hydrants
   
50.18   Underground utilities
   
50.19   Tampering with water system
   
50.20   Amendments
   
50.21   Prohibiting any free service
   
50.22   Emergency
   
50.23   Water Curtailment Plan
Water Conservation
   
50.30   Water conservation
   
50.31   Water-efficient landscaping
   
50.32   Landscape design plan
   
50.33   Water-efficient landscape worksheet
   
50.34   Irrigation design plan
   
50.35   Irrigation scheduling
   
50.36   Landscape and irrigation maintenance schedule
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 WATER SYSTEM RULES, REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   This chapter provides basic requirements and prohibitions for connection to
and use of water resources in the City of Banks and regulates the operations of
the Banks Water Department. The following shall govern the basic operation of
the city’s water utility and the provision of water service:
   (A)   The Water Department and all customers receiving service from the
Water Department, whether inside or outside the city limits, are bound by these
rules and regulations for the operation of the Water Department of the city.
   (B)   The City of Banks will not discriminate against any person because of
race, color, religion, sexual orientation, or national origin requesting water
service from the City of Banks.
   (C)   Any time a new or replacement structure or an expansion of an existing
structure on property within the City requires a new or expanded water source,
the property owner shall connect the structure to the public water system at
the owner’s expense.
   (D)   No new water system connection is allowed unless the customer first
demonstrates that the city’s water system has sufficient capacity to supply a
sufficient quantity of water to serve the new use or structure, and the city
consents in writing to the connection.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person, corporate entity or property owner to
drill, construct or install a new ground water well within the city’s corporate
boundaries or within the city’s urban growth area.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person, corporate entity or property owner to
take water from the public water system of the city without prior authorization
or without obtaining the proper permits and payment of appropriate fees and
charges.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any person, corporate entity or property owner to
waste or allow the waste of city water by knowingly or negligently causing,
authorizing or permitting water in excess of the reasonable volume necessary
for a beneficial use to escape from its intended beneficial use. For the
purpose of this section: “beneficial use” means the lawful, reasonable and
efficient use of water.
   (H)   The City of Banks hereby adopts a policy favoring the use of xeric low
water demand landscaping, plants and plantings in all private and public
development projects and whenever a homeowner installs or changes a lawn or
landscaping.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 12-11-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person or persons, firm, or corporation making application
for water service from the Water Department under the terms of these rules and
regulations.
   BULK WATER. Water intended for potable uses which is transported by tank
trucks.
   CITY. The legally constituted municipal government of the City of Banks.
   COLIFORM. A bacteriological organism whose count is used to determine the
presence of pollution in water.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
   CUSTOMER. An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of these rules
and regulations and who receives water service from the Water Department.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The part of the piping on the customer’s property
that connects the service connection to the customer’s distribution system.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The result and regulations for the operation of the
Water Department.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system that connects
the meter to the main and normally consists of corporation stop, service, pipe,
curb stop and box, meter, meter yoke, and meter box.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Administrator to manage the
affairs of the Water Department.
   WATER. Potable drinking water.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the city.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2011-11-01, passed 11-8-2011)
§ 50.03 SERVICE AREA.
   The area served by the Water Department shall be that area included within
the corporate limits of the city and the other contiguous or neighboring
territory as the Council shall, from time to time, determine to serve. The City
of Banks will be the only provider of potable water within the City of Banks.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.04 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Supply.
      (1)   The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence and care to
deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at a
property pressure and to avoid any shortage or interruption in delivery.
      (2)   Temporary suspension of service by the Water Department for
improvements and repairs will be necessary occasionally. Whenever possible, and
when time permits, all customers affected shall be notified prior to shut
downs. The city shall not be liable for damage resulting from the interruption
in service or from lack of service.
   (B)   Quality. The Water Department shall exercise reasonable diligence to
supply safe and potable water at all times, shall submit samples for
bacteriological testing as required by the Oregon State Health Division, and
shall otherwise meet requirements of the Division.
   (C)   Ownership of system. All water mains, valves, fittings, hydrants,
service connections, and other appurtenances, except customer service line, are
the property of the Water Department.
   (D)   Special contracts. When the applicant’s requirements for water are
unusual or large, or necessitate considerable special or reserve equipment or
capacity, the Water Department reserves the right to require a special
contract, the provisions of which are different from and have exceptions to the
regularly published water rates, rules and regulations. These special contracts
shall be in writing and signed by the applicant and the City Manager.
   (E)   Resale of water. Resale of water shall only be permitted under special
contract.
   (F)   Service preference. In case of shortage of supply, the Water
Department reserves the right to give preference in the matter of furnishing
service to customers from the standpoint of public convenience or necessity.
Water service to users outside the city limits shall, at all times, be subject
to the prior and superior rights of the customers within the city.
   (G)   Bulk water sales and service. As a special division related to
division (D) above, this division provides for the sale, distribution and
service of bulk water in the City of Banks. With the exception of legitimate
organized fire fighting personnel, specifically the Banks Fire District #13, no
bulk water may be drawn from the city water system without prior special
written permission from the Public Works Director. The Public Works Director
shall promulgate rules for permitting and charging for bulk water usage.
      (1)   Bulk water permit.
         (a)   Residents and non-residents may apply for a bulk water permit
with the City of Banks.
         (b)   A bulk water permit grants permission to the applicant to obtain
water from a specified fire hydrant, designated by the City Manager or
designee, for bulk water service in the City of Banks.
         (c)   A bulk water permit will not be issued if:
            1.   Demand of current authorized water users is such, that any
bulk water sales would cause a system-wide shortage;
            2.   Applicant has outstanding charges due to the City of Banks; or
            3.   Applicant does not have the proper equipment for drawing and/
or hauling water.
         (d)   Bulk water permits will be issued on a monthly basis.
         (e)   Bulk water permit fees will be charged according to the most
current City of Banks fee schedule, as adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
         (f)   The bulk water permit must be carried in the vehicle that has
been inspected and approved to haul water.
         (g)   When issued, the bulk water permit will be distributed as
follows:
            1.   The original permit will be provided to the applicant, with 1
copy for record purposes;
            2.   Two copies of the permit will be retained by the Public Works
Director for record purposes;
            3.   One copy of the permit will be retained by the Public Works
Supervisor for use in the field;
            4.   One copy of the permit will be retained by other Water Utility
service personnel for use in the field; and
            5.   Two copies of the permit will be provided to police services
personnel for use in the field.
      (2)   Bulk water hauling vehicle inspection.
         (a)   A vehicle designated by the applicant for hauling bulk water
must have an approved air gap or water backflow prevention device.
         (b)   A city police services representative, or a Public Works
services representative, may inspect the vehicle designated for hauling bulk
water to ensure compliance with water cross connection regulations.
      (3)   Designation of hydrant for drawing bulk water.
         (a)   The applicant will be instructed on which hydrant to use for
purposes of drawing bulk water.
         (b)   Prior to issuance of a bulk water permit, the Public Works
Director shall verify that the city’s water system has adequate capacity to
fulfill the bulk water request while still serving city customers and from
which hydrant the applicant shall draw the water.
         (c)   An applicant found violating its bulk water permit by using a
hydrant other than the hydrant designated by the permit will forfeit its
permit.
      (4)   Bulk water usage tracking and documentation.
         (a)   Upon issuance of a bulk water permit, the applicant will be
provided with a bulk water tracking form.
         (b)   The applicant is responsible for documenting the following
information on the bulk water tracing form each time bulk water is drawn:
            1.   Date;
            2.   Beginning meter reading;
            3.   Ending meter reading;
            4.   Size of load;
            5.   Number of loads; and
            6.   The initials of the driver.
         (c)   Upon completion of the bulk water draw, or upon expiration of
the bulk water permit, the applicant must return the bulk water tracking form
to the Water Utility no later than 2 business days after the expiration date of
the bulk water permit.
         (d)   Upon completion of the bulk water draw, or upon expiration of
the bulk water permit, the City Manager, or designee, will calculate the total
water used based on the most current bulk water sales rate. A final bulk water
sales bill will be forwarded to the applicant for final payment of the amount
due.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2011-11-01, passed 11-8-2011; Am. Ord.
2023-05-01, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 50.05 APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF WATER SERVICE; BILLING.
   (A)   Application for service connection. Any property in the city’s service
area is eligible for a water service connection. To apply, the owner of the
service property, or someone with written authorization from the property
owner, shall complete an application and submit it to city hall. The
application shall be on a form provided by the city and include the information
and statements described in this section. All applications for water service
shall be made at city hall by the owner or an authorized agent of the owner of
the service property. All representations of the applicant shall be binding
upon the property owner. To apply, the owner of the service property, or
someone with written authorization, shall complete an application on forms
provided by the city and submit at least the following information:
      (1)   Mailing address and other contact information for the owner of the
service property.
      (2)   A street address for the service property to be connected to the
city’s water system and provided with water services.
      (3)   A description of the use of the service property, e.g., single-
family residential, commercial, industrial, and the like. The description
should be specific enough to allow the City Engineer to determine the nature
and volume of water that will be used by the service property.
      (4)   A statement of whether or not the service property will be occupied
by the property owner.
      (5)   If the applicant is someone other than the record owner of the
property, a written statement from the record owner of the service property
authorizing the applicant or agent to apply for water service, that the
property owner shall comply with all requirements imposed by the city related
to water service, and that the owner shall be responsible for all bills, fees,
charges and penalties charged by the city in connection with the provision of
water service.
      (6)   A statement that the owner and agent shall comply with all of the
city’s rules, regulations and other requirements for water service, including
prompt payment of all bills and acknowledgement that the city has the right to
terminate service for nonpayment of bills in accordance with this chapter, and
that the city shall not be responsible for any direct or indirect damage that
may result from shutting off water service.
      (7)   A signed consent allowing the transfer of any claim for past due
bills incurred by a tenant or renter of the property to the property owner.
   (B)   Responsibility for bills associated with water service.
      (1)   Responsibility for fees, charges, penalties, and the like. At all
times and under all circumstances, the owner of the service property shall be
responsible for all water service charges, fees, rates, penalties and related
amounts charged by the city in connection with the provision of water to a
service property owned by the property owner. When applying to connect,
establish or reestablish service to the city’s water system, all owners of real
property will be required to acknowledge primary responsibility for all water
utility charges and the city’s right to transfer a claim for delinquent service
charges for rented or leased property to the owner. The city has the right to
transfer to the owner of a service property any claim for delinquent service
charges incurred by a tenant of the service property other than the owner.
      (2)   Courtesy copies to tenants. Upon the written request of a property
owner, the city will provide a courtesy copy of the monthly utility bill, any
notices and other communication to a non-owner tenant residing at the service
property. However, the owner shall remain primarily responsible for all water
service charges incurred at the owner’s property. The city reserves the right
to charge the property owner an administrative fee for the city’s costs
associated with sending courtesy copies to the non-owner tenant each month. The
city shall be entitled to seek payment for past-due bills from the property
owner and pursue all available remedies against the property owner for
nonpayment of bills accrued at the service property.
      (3)   Responsibility to maintain current mailing address. The owner of
the service property shall provide to the city, and be responsible for
maintaining at all times, a current mailing address to which the city will send
all bills, notices and other communications related to water service. All
bills, notices and other communications from the city related to the provision
of water to the service property shall be sent to the property owner’s most
recent address. Regardless of where the property owner directs the city to send
bills, notices and other communications related to water service, the property
owner shall remain ultimately responsible to the city for payment of all bills,
fees, charges, penalties, and the like associated with the provision of water
services to the service property. Failure of the property owner to maintain
current contact information with the city shall not absolve the owner of its
responsibility for water bills.
      (4)   When payment on water bills is due. All water service charges,
fees, penalties and other bills shall be due and payable in full within 30 days
of when the city sends a written bill. All bills that remain unpaid after 30
days of being sent shall accrue a late fee penalty in an amount established by
City Council.
   (C)   Water service connection and payment of system development charges.
The city has adopted authority pursuant to O.R.S. Chapter 223 to impose system
development charges (“SDCs”) related to the city’s water system as provided in
BMC Chapter 33 (System Development Charge). The City Council shall adopt and
periodically revise the SDC rate schedule by resolution. Water SDCs are due and
payable at the time a new connection to the city’s water system is permitted or
actually made. No payment of water SDCs is allowed prior to actual connection
or issuance of building permits, after which the property owner shall be
responsible for paying the monthly service charges associated with the service
property. In the event that service to a property is subsequently terminated
pursuant to §
50.10(C), water service may be resumed, and the property reconnected to the
water system in accordance with the requirements of §
50.10(C). Upon reconnection to the utility, the property owner shall begin
incurring monthly service charges regardless of whether sewer or water services
are actually used.
   (D)   City access to service property. Authorized employees of the city,
with proper identification, shall have access during reasonable hours to all
parts of a service property and within any building to which water is supplied.
However, if any property owner refuses access to a service property or to the
interior of a structure at reasonable times and on reasonable notice for
inspection, the city may install a reduced pressure principal assembly at that
service property.
(Ord. 2023-05-02, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 50.06 MAIN EXTENSION.
   (A)   Within the city limits.
      (1)   Water main extension to areas within the city limits not presently
served with water from adequately sized mains of 6 inches or larger shall be
installed by the Water Department or by contractors approved by the Water
Department. The cost of the extensions shall be borne by the adjacent
properties along which the extensions are made on a front-foot basis, except
that the adjacent property shall not be assessed in excess of the cost of
installing a 6-inch main, including all fittings and valves.
      (2)   If a water main is laid to serve property that has paid for a water
service connection from another street, the Water Department shall install a
new service connection of like size to the property line or parking strip
without charge to the owner, provided that the property is assessed for the new
water main.
   (B)   Outside the city limits. Water mains outside the city limits shall be
extended only at the expense of the customers served. The Water Department
shall determine the size of the main extension. Extensions outside the city
limits shall be installed by the Water Department or by contractors approved by
the Water Department. The installation procedures and materials used shall be
in accordance with the Water Department's standards. The main extensions shall
become the property of the Water Department at the time water from the city
water system is turned into the main extension. If necessary, prior approval of
Washington County must be obtained by the petitioning party.
   (C)   Locations of extensions. The Water Department will make water main
extensions only on public rights-of-way, easements, or publicly owned property.
The Council has final authority on granting connections outside of the city
limits. Easements or permits secured for main extensions shall either be
obtained in the name of the city or transferred to the city, along with all
rights and title to the main prior to the time service is provided to the
customers paying for the extension.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-08-01, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 50.07 SERVICES.
   (A)   Water connections.
      (1)   All applicants shall be responsible for furnishing all materials,
labor, equipment and excavation in conformance with the applicable standards
and specifications set forth in the current Public Works Design Standards
Manual, adopted and from time to time amended by the City Council, except as
noted below.
      (2)   The city shall furnish all water meters based upon the service size
stated in the current Public Works Design Standards Manual; the application
shall bear the cost of the meter, box and lid according to the current fee
schedule adopted and from time to time amended by City Council.
      (3)   All pavement replacements shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
      (4)   All workmanship and materials shall strictly confirm to the city’s
standard specifications for the work.
      (5)   The city shall be responsible for tapping all water mains.
      (6)   The City Public Works Director or his or her representative shall
inspect and have final approval of the work.
      (7)   Water service application fees, service fees and water rates shall
be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 80.7.1, passed 11-12-2003; Am. Ord. 2007-50.10(A)(1), passed 2-13-
2007)
   (B)   Service connection. A service connection charge shall be charged to
any applicant who files for service where no service previously existed, or who
files for a change in service size or location. The applicant shall submit with
the application the minimum service connection charge. The charge is to cover
the actual cost to the Water Department to install the service from the main to
and including the meter and the meter housing. In addition to the cost of the
installation, the service connection charge may include a system improvement
fee. The amount of the service connection charge shall be set by Council
resolution.
   (C)   Size of service. The Water Department shall furnish and install a
meter for the type of service requested. Specifications for the meter size and
location shall be set forth in the current Public Works Design Standards
Manual. The Water Department may refuse to install a service line that is
undersized or oversized, as determined by Public Works staff.
   (D)   Changes in service size. Permanent changes in the size of the service
line requested by the customer shall be paid by the customer on the basis of
actual cost to the Water Department for making the change.
   (E)   Length of service.
      (1)   Where the main is in a public right-of-way, the meter shall be
placed at the right-of-way line nearest the property to be served for the
standard connection fee, provided that the length of service does not exceed
the width of the right-of-way.
      (2)   Where the main is on an easement or publicly owned property other
than designated public rights-of-way, the easement of public property by the
Water Department, provided that the length of services does not exceed 30 feet.
      (3)   If, in either case cited above, the length of service line to the
meter location exceeds the maximum distance stated, the applicant shall pay the
extra cost of the line on the basis of actual cost to the Water Department for
labor, materials, and equipment rental, plus 20% of the total.
   (F)   Joint service connections. The Water Department may, at its option,
serve 2 or more premises with 1 service connection, but shall not allow more
than 1 applicant for service to be connected to the same meter. The inside
diameter of joint service lines shall be sufficient to provide a carrying
capacity not less than the combined capacity of the individual services lines
of the same size as the meters installed. Service extensions from an existing
service to occupancies or ownership’s other than those for which the existing
service was intended shall not be permitted.
   (G)   Number of service connections on premises. The owner of a single
parcel of property may apply for and receive as many services as the owner and
tenants require, provided that the application or applications meet the
requirements of the rules and regulations.
   (H)   Standby fire protection service connections on premises.
      (1)   Purpose. Standby fire protection service connections of 2-inch size
and larger shall be installed only if adequate provisions are made to prevent
the use of water from the services for purposes other than fire extinguishing.
Sealed fire sprinkler systems with water-operated alarms shall be considered to
have the provisions. The Water Department may require that a suitable detector-
check meter be installed in the standby fire protection service connections to
which hose lines or hydrants are connected. All piping on the customer’s
premises shall be installed in accordance with the plumbing code of the city.
      (2)   Charges for service. Charges for standby fire protection service
shall be established by Council resolution. No charge will be made for water
used in the standby fire protection services to extinguish accidental fire or
for routine testing of the fire protection system. The customer shall pay the
full cost of the standby fire protection service connection, any required
detector-check meters, and any required special water meter or other device
installed solely for the service to the standby connection.
      (3)   Violation of regulations. If water is used from a standby
connection service in violation of these regulations, an estimate of the amount
used shall be computed by the Water Department. The customer shall pay for the
water used at the regular rates, including the minimum charge based on the size
of the service connection and subsequent bills rendered on the basis of the
regular water rates.
   (I)   Fire service connections other than standby. A service having fire
protection facilities on the premises and water for other purposes flowing
through the same service connection shall be considered an ordinary service and
shall be metered. All water used through that service, regardless of its use,
shall be charged at the regular rates.
   (J)   Temporary service connections. For water service of a temporary
nature, applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and material owned and furnished
by the Water Department. The applicant shall pay the water bill in advance,
based on an estimate of the quantity to be used.
      (1)   Time limit. Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within 6 months after installation unless an extension of time is
granted in writing by the Water Department.
      (2)   Charge for water served. Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established monthly rates for
regular users set forth in the current water rate resolution.
      (3)   Installation charge and deposits. The applicant for temporary
service shall:
         (a)   Pay the Water Department, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing all facilities necessary to furnish each service;
         (b)   Deposit an amount sufficient to cover bills for water during the
entire period the temporary service may be used; and
         (c)   Deposit with the Water Department an amount equal to the value
of any equipment loaned by the Water Department to the applicant for use on
temporary service. This deposit is refundable under the terms of division (J)
(4) below.
      (4)   Responsibility for meters and installation. The customer shall use
all possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the Water Department. If the meter or other facilities are
damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be deducted from the deposit refund.
If the loaned materials are returned in satisfactory condition and all bills
paid, the full amount of the equipment deposit shall be returned to the
temporary customer at the termination of service.
   (K)   Customers’ plumbing.
      (1)   State Plumbing Code. The customers’ plumbing, which shall include
the customer’s service line and all plumbing, piping, fixtures, and other
appurtenances carrying or intended to carry potable water, sewage, or drainage,
shall comply with the State Plumbing Code. No connection shall be made, nor
shall water service be maintained, to any property in which the plumbing does
not comply with the provisions of the State Plumbing Code and applicable state
and federal regulations.
      (2)   Control valves. Customers shall install a suitable gate and check
valve in the customer service line as close to the meter as possible, the
operation of which shall control the entire water supply to the premises
service and to prevent the backflow of water into the city mains. The customer
shall install the additional pressure-reducing valves, pressure relief valves,
check valves, pop-off valves, or other control valves, as the customer may
desire or the Water Department may consider necessary to protect the customers
piping from abnormal high or low pressures or from interruptions of service.
Repair and replacement of the control valves shall be the responsibility of the
customer. A customer shall not operate or cause unauthorized operation of the
meter stop or any other appurtenance on the service connection.
      (3)   Pumps. Where pumping is required to serve a customer at too high an
elevation to be served by gravity, the Water Department may, at its option,
require the customer to provide a suitable pump as a condition of service. The
installation shall be subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2014- 12-03, passed 1-13-2015) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.08 METERS.
   (A)   Ownership. The Water Department shall own and maintain all water
meters. The Water Department shall not pay rent or any other charge for a meter
or other water facilities, including housing and connections located on a
customer’s premises.
   (B)   Installation. Installation of water meters shall be performed only by
authorized employees of the Water Department. All meters shall be sealed by the
Water Department at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by 1 of its authorized employees.
   (C)   Size and type of meter. The size and type of meter shall be determined
by Public Works staff in accordance with the current Public Works Design
Standards Manual.
   (D)   Location of meters. Meters shall normally be placed at the property
lines closest to the water main; the meter may be installed wherever the
applicant desires, within reason, but the location must be approved by the
Water Department. A meter shall not be located in a driveway or other location
where damage to the meter or its related parts may occur.
   (E)   Joint use of meters. The joining of several customers to take
advantage of the single minimum charges or large quantity rates is prohibited,
except under special contract. Where multiple users are receiving water from a
single meter, the applicant for service shall be considered the customer and
shall be responsible for all charges.
   (F)   Changes in size or location. If, for any reason, a change in size of a
meter and service is required, the installation shall be accomplished on the
basis of a new connection, and the customer’s application shall be amended.
Meters or services moved for the convenience of the customer shall be relocated
only at the customer’s expense.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2014- 12-03, passed 1-13-2015) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.09 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notices to customers. Notices from the Water Department to the
customer shall normally be given in writing and either mailed or delivered to
the customer's last known address. Where conditions warrant, and in
emergencies, the Water Department may notify by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices from customers. Notices from customers to the Water Department
shall be given by the customer or authorized representative orally or in
writing at the office of the Water Department, or to an agent of the Water
Department duly authorized to receive notices or complaints.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-08-01, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 50.10 BILLING, PAYMENT AND THE CITY’S REMEDIES FOR PAST-DUE BILLS: SERVICE
TERMINATION AND RIGHT TO LIEN.
   (A)   Meter readings. Meters shall be read and customers billed on the basis
of the meter reading, according to the rate structure established by City
Council resolution. The Water Department shall keep an accurate account on its
books of all readings of meters, and the accounts so kept shall be offered at
all times, places, and courts as prima facie evidence of the use of water
service by the customer.
   (B)   Flat rates. Where meters have not been installed, the customer shall
be billed on the basis of the average monthly charge for the size and class of
service supplied to the customer.
   (C)   Rendering of bills.
      (1)   Billing period. Meters shall be read and bills rendered monthly.
      (2)   Bills for other than normal billing period. Opening or closing
bills or bills that for any other reason cover a period containing 10% more
days or 10% less days than in the normal billing period shall be prorated.
   (D)   Disputed bills. A customer who disputes the correctness of a bill
shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill at the time the complaint is
lodged to preclude discontinuance of service pending final settlement of the
bill or bills. Subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on deposit in a similar
manner. Failure of the customer to make the deposit shall warrant
discontinuance of service as provided under this section.
   (E)   Failure to read meters. In the event that it is impossible or
impractical to read a meter on the regular reading date, the water consumption
shall be prorated on the basis of 30 days per month, and the total water
consumption for billing purposes for the period shall be estimated.
   (F)   Payment of bills.
      (1)   Generally. Each bill rendered shall contain the final date on which
payment is due. If the bill is not paid by that date, the account shall be
considered delinquent unless other arrangements have been made by an authorized
representative of the Water Department, either orally or in writing, that
specify another due date.
      (2)   Penalty fees for late payments. Bills not paid by the due date
shall be assessed a penalty of 10% of the previous billing.
      (3)   Returned checks. A fee shall be charged for checks returned for
insufficient funds as established by resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 80.11.6, passed 11-12-2003)
   (G)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Delinquent notice. If a bill is not paid in full by the due date
designated on the bill, the next bill shall include a delinquent notice with a
statement of the amount that is delinquent. If the delinquent amount of a bill
is not paid in full within 15 calendar days of the mailing of a bill containing
the delinquent notice, water service may be discontinued.
      (2)   Opportunity to be heard. Customers with a delinquent amount that
remains unpaid more than 15 calendar days after notice of the delinquent amount
has been provided, are subject to discontinuance (shut-off) of water service.
These customers shall be notified of the discontinuance date and have the
opportunity to be heard by a city official or employee empowered to resolve any
valid objections to the billing prior to a service disconnection.
      (3)   Service turnoff. On the day before a disconnection, the city shall
cause a door hanger to be posted on the front door of the service address
stating that service will be disconnected the following calendar day and shall
remain disconnected until all delinquent amounts are paid in full. The city’s
cost of each door hanger, according to the then-current fee schedule, shall be
added to the delinquent amount due. On the disconnection date, an agent of the
Water Department shall deliver a written notice to the customer stating that
the water service will be turned off until all delinquent amounts have been
paid. The agent of the Water Department shall immediately thereafter turn off
(disconnect) the water service to the property. Delivery of this shut-off
notice to any person at the address served by the meter shall be considered
sufficient delivery to the customer.
      (4)   Installment payments of delinquent accounts. In cases of extreme
hardship, the City Manager or the Manager’s designee shall have the authority
to renew service to a delinquent account upon the customer’s execution of a
satisfactory installment plan for the payment of the overdue amount and the
provision of remedies in the event of future delinquent payments.
      (5)   Lien against real property. If any water bill or charge provided
for by these rules and regulations is not paid within 30 days after the water
bill or charge becomes due, the City Recorder shall notify either the legal
and/or equitable owner of the real property where the water was used or charge
incurred, by certified or registered mail, the amount of the water bill or
charge, the description of the real property involved, and a statement that if
the water bill or charge is not paid within 15 days from the date the notice is
mailed, the real property involved will be subject to an assessment lien in the
amount of the delinquent water bill or charge. If payment is not made within
the 15 day period, the city may proceed to record and then foreclose the lien
in the manner provided by law for the municipal assessment liens.
      (6)   Lien against real property that has been vacant, abandoned or has
an inactive account. If the service property has been vacant, abandoned or
otherwise has an inactive account with no activity for a period of 60
consecutive calendar days, the City Manager may at the Manager’s discretion,
suspend the service account and shut-off (disconnect) the service meter. In
that event, the city shall assess a lock- out fee, based on the then-current
Fee Schedule. From that point forward an inactive water service account will be
assessed a nominal monthly charge until reactivated and a separate reactivation
fee in anticipation of a future reconnection of the service property. The
city’s disconnection and reactivation fees shall be recorded as a lien against
the service property in addition any other fees, utility service charges and
other unpaid amounts assessed by the city. The city’s utility assessment lien
shall have priority over, and shall be superior to, all other liens recorded
against the service property.
   (H)   Water service adjustments. Water service charges shall be adjusted
automatically each year to reflect cost of living increase, unless the City
Council affirmatively adopts a new water rate schedule. If the City Council has
not adopted a new water rate schedule, the automatic annual adjustment shall be
determined as of each January by averaging the monthly cost of living figures
frm the date that is available from the preceding 12 reporting periods. The
source of the cost of living data shall be the U.S. Bureau of Labor and
Statistics, Cost of Living Index, CPI-U All Cities publication for each month.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2007- 11-03, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord.
2008-08- 01, passed 8-12-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-12-03, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 50.11 METER ERROR.
   (A)   Meter accuracy. All meters will be tested prior to installation. No
meter will be placed in service or allowed to remain in service that is known
to have an error in registration in excess of 3% under conditions of normal
operation.
   (B)   Meter test.
      (1)   Standard test. Meter tests will be conducted in accordance with
standards of practice established by the American Water Works Association.
      (2)   On customer request. A customer may, giving not less than 7-days’
notice, request the Water Department to test the meter serving his or her
premises. The Water Department will require the customer to deposit the testing
fee as established by Council resolution. The deposit will be returned to the
customer if the test reveals the meter to over-register more than 3% under the
standard test conditions, the deposit shall be forfeited to the Water
Department. Customers may, at their option, witness any meter tests that they
request.
      (3)   On Water Department request. If, upon comparison with past water
usage, it appears that a meter is not registering property, the Water
Department may, at its option, test the meter and adjust the charges
accordingly if the meter either over-registers or under-registers. No charge
for meter testing will be made to the customer for the meter test under these
conditions.
   (C)   Adjustments of bills for meter error.
      (1)   Fast meters. When, upon test, a meter is found to be over-
registering more than 3% under normal operating conditions, the Water
Department will refund to the customer the full amount of the over-charge,
based on the corrected meter readings, not exceeding 2 regular billing periods
that the meter was in use.
      (2)   Slow meters. When, upon test, a meter is found to be under-
registering more than 3%, the Water Department may bill the customer for the
amount of the under-charge, based upon corrected meter readings, not exceeding
2 regular billing periods that the meter was in use.
      (3)   Non-registering meters. The Water Department will bill the customer
for water consumed while the meter was not registering. The bill will be
computed upon an estimate of consumption based on the customer’s prior use
during the same season of the previous year, or on a reasonable comparison with
the use of other customers receiving the same class of service during the same
season and under similar circumstances and conditions, or both
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.12 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   On customer request. Each customer about to vacate any premises
supplied with water service by the Water Department shall give the Water
Department a request to discontinue service prior to the specific date service
is to be discontinued. The customer is responsible for all water supplies to
the premises until water service is actually discontinued by the city or 2 days
after the city received notice, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   Nonpayment of bills. A customer's water service may be discontinued if
the water bill is not paid in accordance with the procedures listed in these
rules and regulations.
   (C)   Improper customer facilities.
      (1)   Unsafe facilities. The Water Department may refuse to furnish water
and may discontinue service to any premises without prior notice where plumbing
facilities, appliances, or equipment using water are dangerous, unsafe, or not
in conformity with the State Plumbing Code;
      (2)   Cross connections or physical connections with other water supplies
or systems. Neither cross connections nor physical connections of any kind
shall be made to any other water supply, whether private or public, without the
written approval of the Water Department. Included in this category are all
pipelines, appurtenances, and facilities of the Water Department's system; and
all pipes, appurtenances, pumps, tanks, storage reservoirs, facilities,
equipment, and appliances of other systems, whether located within or on public
or private property, or the premises of a water user. Except with written
approval of the Water Department, no person shall connect a separate source of
water supply to a plumbing system theretofore connected to the city's water
system, nor shall any person by application therefore cause the city water
system to be connected to a plumbing system supplied also by another water
source, whether such a separate water source can be separated by a valve or
not. Whenever cross connection to other water supply into the city system is
found or whenever any other condition is found which presents the possibility
of contamination or pollution, the water supply to the premises and/or other
premises from which cross connection is made shall be discontinued immediately
until the cross connection is eliminated or the condition remedied. The control
or elimination of cross connections shall be in accordance with the following
cross connection control requirements.
         (a)   A backflow prevention device shall be installed where a cross
connection may exist.
         (b)   For community water distribution systems where the following
conditions may exist on the user premises, the device shall be installed in or
just ahead of the user service pipeline or immediately inside the building:
            1.   Where an auxiliary water supply exists which may not be
potable;
            2.   Where any substance is handled under pressure in a manner that
may permit its entry into the potable system. This includes process water and
water originating from the potable system which may have deteriorated in
quality; and/or
            3.   Where an internal piping cross connection exists that is not
correctable or where an intricate plumbing arrangement makes it impractical to
determine whether or not a cross connection may exist.
         (c)   The type of protection required for cross connection control
shall depend upon the degree of hazard as follows:
            1.   Where there is an auxiliary water supply as stated in division
(C)(2)(b)1. above, the potable system shall be protected by an approved air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention
device;
            2.   Where a substance that would be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, if introduced into the potable system, an approved double
check valve assembly shall be provided; and
            3.   Where there is material dangerous to health which is handled
in such a manner that may permit entry into the potable system, an approved air
gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device shall be provided. Examples of premises where these conditions may exist
include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries, plating works, medical clinics,
and car washes
         (d)   A protective device required herein shall be a model approved by
the Oregon Health Division. A double check valve or a reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device, to be approved, shall be one which has
successfully passed performance tests by a reputable testing laboratory either
in conformance with standards established by the University of Southern
California Engineering Center Report 48-101 of 1-30-1959, or those standards
presented in the Manual of Cross Connection Control, Fifth Edition, published
by the Foundation for Cross Connection Control Research or in the Cross
Connection Control Manual, Second Edition, July 1973, published by the Pacific
Northwest Section of the American Water Works Association.
         (e)   All presently installed backflow prevention devices which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained shall, upon inspection, be excluded from the requirements
of this chapter so long as they satisfactorily protect the water system.
Whenever the existing device is moved from the present location or requires
more than minimum maintenance or constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall
be replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of this
section.
         (f)   A pit housing a backflow prevention device shall be drained to
daylight. Ample space shall be provided for access to and testing a device.
            1.   For the purpose of this section, the separate water source
shall be considered connected to the city water system unless there be a
complete break in the piping between the separate water source and the city
water system. The city shall require a backflow prevention device of pattern,
design, and size which it approves as reasonably adequate to prevent
contamination. The city shall also regulate the location, installation, and
testing of the device. These inspections and tests shall, at the expense of the
owner of the property, be performed only by a person currently certified by the
state as a backflow prevention device tester. Charges for the inspections and
tests, when performed by the city, shall be added to the charges for water
against the premises necessitating the inspection or tests.
            2.   Any corrective measure, disconnection or change on private
property shall be at the sole expense of the person in control of the property.
The cost of any change required in the city system outside the property or
between the meter and the supply lines or distribution system and any charges
for cut-off or disconnection shall be added to the charges for water against
the premises necessitating the expenditures.
            3.   The Superintendent or other authorized representative shall
have the right, without being considered guilty of trespass or unlawful act, to
check the premises of users for physical connections with other water supplies.
Any such connection shall be removed immediately by the customer; otherwise the
Water Department shall discontinue any connection that it may have for the
service of water to the premises.
            4.   All plumbing within the building served by the Water
Department shall be so installed and all plumbing fixtures by back-siphonage or
cross connections. Water service to any premises known or found to have the
defects and hazards shall be disconnected and not restored until the defects
and hazards have been eliminated.
   (D)   Water waste. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer's premises, seriously affecting the general service, the Water
Department may discontinue service if the conditions are not corrected after
due notice by the Water Department.
   (E)   Service detrimental to others. The Water Department may refuse to
furnish water and may discontinue service to any premises where excessive
demand by 1 customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   (F)   Fraud or abuse. The Water Department will refuse or discontinue
service to any premises where it is considered necessary to protect the Water
Department from fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service for 1 or both of
these causes will be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the Water
Department that the condition or conditions exist.
   (G)   Unauthorized turn on. Where water service has been discontinued for
any reason and the water is turned on by the customer or other unauthorized
person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The
charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be
computed at actual cost to the Water Department, plus 15% overhead, but not
less than $10. These charges shall be billed to the offending customer, and
water shall not be furnished to the premises until the charges are paid and the
Water Department has reasonable assurance that the violation will not recur.
   (H)   Noncompliance with rules and regulations. The Water Department may,
upon 5-days' notice, discontinue service to a customer's premises for failure
to comply with any of the provisions of these rules and regulations. This
division does not prevent immediate continuance when authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-08-01, passed 8-12-2008) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.13 RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Restoration of service after discontinuance for nonpayment of bills
shall be made after payment of current and past due charges, plus any
restoration charge that may be provided by Council resolution, and posting a
deposit as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   Restoration of service after discontinuation of service for the
customer’s convenience, or for unsafe facilities, water, waste, fraud, abuse,
or for noncompliance with any of the rules and regulations, shall only be made
after adjustments have been made to insure that the irregularity will not
recur. The restoration charge shall be as provided by Council resolution, plus
any other charges, due or past due, that the water department may have incurred
to correct the irregularity.
(Am. Ord. 80.14.2, passed 11-12-2003)
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.14 UNUSUAL DEMANDS.
   (A)   When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a
swimming pool, log pond, or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with
the Water Department prior to taking the water.
   (B)   Permission to take water in unusual quantities will be given only if
the Water Department facilities and other consumers are not inconvenienced.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.15 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   The duly appointed employees of the Water Department, under the direction of
the City Council, shall have free access at all reasonable hours of the day to
any and all parts of structures and premises in which water is or may be
delivered for the purpose of inspecting connections, the conditions of conduits
and fixtures, and the manner and extent in which the water is being used. The
Water Department does not, however, assume the duty of inspecting the
customer’s line, plumbing, and equipment, and shall not be responsible
therefore.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.16 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for customer equipment. The Water Department shall not
be liable for any loss or damage of any nature whatsoever caused by any defect
in the customer's line, plumbing, or equipment, nor shall the Water Department
be liable for loss or damage due to interruption of service or temporary
changes in pressure. The customer shall be responsible for valves on the
premises being turned off when the water service is turned on.
   (B)   Responsibility for Water Department equipment. Water Department
equipment on the customer's premises remains the property of the Water
Department and may be repaired, replaced, or removed by the Water Department
employees at any time without consent of the customer. No payment will be made
to the property owner for the right to install, maintain, replace, or remove
Water Department equipment on the premises. The property owner and tenant shall
not interfere with its operation. The property owner and tenant must keep
vicious dogs or other animals secure or confined to avoid interference with the
utility operation and maintenance.
   (C)   Pressure-reducing valves. The Water Department may, at its option,
install pressure-reducing valves at the expense of the Water Department, and
for the purpose of reducing pressure from the distribution mains only in order
to protect the Water Department's meter. The installation of a pressure-
reducing valve is not designed nor intended to protect any property beyond the
meter to the customer's lines. If any property of the customer, after water
passes through the meter, is subject to damage by reason of water pressure or
changes therein, the loss or damage that may result to the customer's property
will be at the sole and exclusive expense of the customer and shall not be a
responsibility of the Water Department. Failure of Water Department control
valves or devices will not in any way indicate negligence by the Water
Department or responsibility for damage caused thereby.
   (D)   Damage to Water Department equipment. The customer shall be liable for
any damage to equipment owned by the Water Department that is caused by an act
of the customer, the customer's tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees, or permittees. Damage to equipment shall include but not be limited
to breaking of seals and locks; tampering with meter; injury to meter,
including but not limited to damage by hot water or steam; and damaged meter
boxes, curb stops, meter stops, and other service appurtenances.
   (E)   Damage to mains, valves, and appurtenances by others. When underground
mains, valves, and other Water Department equipment is damaged by a contractor
or private individual, the entire cost of repairs shall be borne by that
contractor or individual.
   (F)   Excavations. The Water Department shall be notified before excavation
by others on city rights-of-way and easements, so location of water pipes and
other buried utilities can be established by the city at no cost to the
requesting party. Location of utilities will be made according to the best
available maps and plans, but in no way relieve a contractor or individual from
responsibility for damage.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-08-01, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 50.17 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Operation. No person or persons other than those designated and
authorized by the Water Department shall open any fire hydrant or standpipe
belonging to the Water Department, attempt to draw water from it, or in any
manner damage or tamper with it. No tool other than special hydrant wrenches
shall be used to operate a hydrant valve. In cases where a temporary service
has been granted and water is received through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary
external valve will be provided to control the flow of water.
   (B)   Moving a fire hydrant. When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
location specified by the property authority, the Water Department has
fulfilled its obligation. A property owner or other party who desires to change
the size, type, or location of the hydrant shall bear all costs of the changes.
Any change in the location of the fire hydrant must be approved by the Water
Department.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Location of utilities. Location of underground utilities installed by
electric, telephone, television, and other companies on city streets, alleys,
and public rights-of-way within the city shall be recorded on an approved plat
plan, showing the location of the utilities from property lines. When additions
or deletions of the utilities are made, it shall be the responsibility of the
company to update the plat plan. One copy of the plan shall be furnished to the
City Public Works Department at no charge, and 1 copy retained by the company.
   (B)   Materials. All wires shall be enclosed in a watertight, non-metallic
conduit, buried to a depth of no less than 24 inches from the surface. The
conduit shall lie on a 6-inch sand base with a sand cover of approximately 8
inches. Conduits allowed to be laid in the same trench as water or sewer pipes
shall be laid on 1 extreme banks side, as approved by the city and in
accordance with Oregon Health Division standards.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.19 TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM.
   No person or persons other than those designated and authorized by the Water
Department shall operate, adjust, or in any manner tamper with any part of the
water system of the city. In the event of an emergency, the Water Department’s
emergency shut-off policy will apply.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2013-04-01, passed 4-9-2013) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.20 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   City Council. The City Council shall have the power to establish water
rates and charges and amend these rules and regulations as may be necessary for
the efficient operation of the Water Department.
   (B)   Suspension of rules. No employee of the Water Department is authorized
to suspend or alter any of the rules and regulations cited herein without
specific approval or direction of the Council by resolution, except in cases of
emergency involving loss of life or property or which would place the water
system operation in jeopardy.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-08-01, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 50.21 PROHIBITING ANY FREE SERVICE.
   Except for service to the city, the Water Department shall not furnish any
water or perform any service to any individual, firm, corporation, association,
or institution free of charge or at a reduced rate or for any other
considerations than the regular established rate or charges levied through a
contractual agreement approved by the Council.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.22 EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, an emergency exists and it is necessary for the protection of
public health, safety, and welfare that this chapter be effective immediately,
this chapter shall be in full force and effect on its passage by the Council
and approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 50.23 WATER CURTAILMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Findings and declaration of a water emergency.
      (1)   The City Manager has the authority to declare a water emergency in
accordance with the Water Curtailment Plan adopted by resolution of the City
Council and amended from time to time , provided that the City Manger makes the
necessary findings and sets out the facts giving rise to the water emergency.
Upon a finding that the municipal water supply system is incapable of providing
an adequate water supply for normal usage due to a prolonged drought, system
failure, or any other event, the City Manager may declare a water emergency and
that water usage must be curtailed in accordance with the City of Banks Water
Curtailment Plan.
      (2)   The water curtailment declaration shall include the effective date,
the reason for the declaration, and the level of prohibition declared based on
the Water Curtailment Plan. After the declaration has been implemented, the
City Manager shall examine the declaration and any curtailment actions that
have been undertaken to determine their effectiveness. The City Manager may
thereafter take whatever additional steps the Manager deems necessary to
address the water emergency, including continuing the restrictions and
limitations, modifying them, or eliminating them if the City Manager finds that
the emergency has been abated or eliminated. The City Manager’s declaration may
include an estimated time for review or revocation of the declaration.
   (B)   Levels of curtailment. If a water emergency is declared, the city
shall allocate the limited water supplies so that public health and safety are
protected during the declared water emergency. Usage of the limited water
supplies will be prioritized based on the triggering mechanisms in accordance
with the Water Curtailment Plan to ensure the best use of the limited water
supply.
   (C)   Enforcement. During the time that a water emergency has been declared,
the following enforcement procedure shall be in effect.
      (1)   Warning. Each violation shall receive a warning. The letter of
warning shall be in writing, shall specify the violation, may require
compliance measures, and shall be served upon the resident or the owner of the
property, according to the city’s water customer records or the property tax
records of Washington County. Service of the warning letter shall be deemed
sufficient by either by personal delivery to an adult at the water service
address by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested to the
service address or property owner’s address, or by posting the warning letter
on the front door of the service address for a 24-hour period.
      (2)   Citation. After the resident has received a warning letter, any
subsequent violation shall be treated as a violation and subject to the civil
enforcement provisions of this code.
   (D)   Amendments; special rules; contracts. Pursuant to a declaration of a
water emergency, the City Manager or the City Council may amend, change, or
modify any rule, rate, or charge, and to make special rules and contracts to
implement or otherwise fulfill a water curtailment declaration, and all water
service connections shall be subject to such authority.
   (E)   Adoption and review of Curtailment Plan. The Water Curtailment Plan
must be reviewed by the City Council not less than once every 5 years from the
date of the adoption of the Curtailment Plan or date of its amendment or
revision. The Curtailment Plan shall be approved by resolution of the City
Council in accordance with Chapter IV - Legislative Authority, of the City of
Banks Charter, and may be amended from time to time in the same manner.
(Ord. 080800, passed 9-12-2000; Am. Ord. 2008-08-01, passed 8-12-2008; Am. Ord.
2016-01-01, passed 2-9-2016)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 50.30 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Irrigation season. This section applies to all lawn and landscaping
irrigation on any property within the city.
      (1)   The irrigation season for lawns and landscaping in the city is from
May 1 to September 30 of each year (the “irrigation season”). The following
irrigation regulations apply during this period.
         (a)   Lawn or landscape irrigation is prohibited outside of the
irrigation season.
         (b)   Properties with even-ending address numbers shall irrigate only
on even numbered days, and properties with odd-ending numbers shall irrigate
only on odd numbered days.
         (c)   All irrigation is prohibited on the 31st of every month.
      (2)   Irrigation regulations. During the irrigation season, the City
Manager is authorized to impose the following additional irrigation and
watering restrictions when warranted:
         (a)   Irrigation of lawns and landscaping may be prohibited between
the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. for metered and unmetered users.
         (b)   Unmetered and manually operated irrigation may be prohibited
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.
         (c)   Variances may be granted for the establishment and development
of new lawns. Applications for these variances shall be made on forms provided
at City Hall and are subject to approval by the Manager.
      (3)   Irrigation prohibitions. The following prohibitions apply generally
to all otherwise permissible irrigation, even during the irrigation season:
         (a)   No person shall use a hose for irrigation unless the hose is
under direct control of the person, or a sprinkler or other water distribution
device is attached to the hose.
         (b)   No person shall use water for irrigation at any hour except as
prescribed or allowed by this section.
         (c)   No person shall allow excessive water to flow into or upon a
driveway, public street, sidewalk, or off of the person’s property.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   For a first known offense of the provisions of this chapter, the
city shall issue a warning to the person responsible and to the property owner.
      (2)   If a person who has received a warning fails to correct the
violation or has a new offense, the city may issue a citation for violation of
the water regulations pursuant to BCO Chapter 37 (Civil Enforcement) or any
other lawful procedure.
      (3)   If a person cited fails to appear at any subsequent appearance or
fails to pay any fine imposed, the city may, in addition to requiring payment
of the fine, terminate water service at that location.
      (4)   A person whose water has been terminated shall pay a reconnection
fee as determined by the city to resume water service.
   (C)   Temporary discontinuance of use. Any person wishing to discontinue the
use of domestic water supply to a property they own or control for 1 month or
more may give notice thereof to the City Recorder. Upon payment of a resumption
fee and any money owed, the City Manager shall order turnoff of water and, upon
application and payment of a turn-on fee, shall order the water service to be
resumed.
   (D)   Support of non-patrons. No water consumer shall supply water to any
building, business, person, family or place other than the property specified
as the service address in city records, except by written consent of the City
Manager. The consent shall designate the person, property, purpose of the use,
and any other specification or requirement. The person supplying or allowing
the water to be used in violation of this section and the property owner shall
be charged double the usual charge for the user supplied or allowed to use the
water. If the charge is not paid on demand, water service shall be terminated
for the premises where delivery is made.
   (E)   Waste of water. Water may be turned off by the Public Works Director
or the Director’s designee, at any property where there are defective or leaky
pipes, faucets, closets or other fixtures, until repairs are made. Water shall
not be allowed to run to waste through any faucet or fixture. When any waste is
discovered, which in the opinion of the City Engineer is unnecessary, the water
may be cut off from the property. Consumers shall keep all pipes and faucets on
their respective premises in good repair at their own expense.
   (F)   Unlawful to turn on water. No person shall turn on or use water from
the city system if the water has been shut-off by the city for any reason,
until the water is ordered turned on by the City Manager.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 12-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.31 WATER-EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Establish provisions for water management practices and water waste
prevention;
      (2)   Establish a structure for the planning, design, installation,
maintenance and management of water-efficient landscapes in new construction
and rehabilitation projects;
      (3)   To reduce the water demands from landscapes without a decline in
landscape quality or quantity;
      (4)   To retain flexibility and encourage creativity through appropriate
design; and
      (5)   To assure the attainment of water-efficient landscape goals by
requiring that landscapes not exceed a maximum water demand of 70% of its
reference evapotranspiration (ETo) or any lower percentage as may be required
by water purveyor policy or state legislation, whichever is stricter.
   (B)   Landscaping of public areas in new development shall be designed to be
water-efficient and to use drought-tolerant plants and water-efficient
irrigation methods. Grading and landscaping plans shall be submitted as
required by the Public Works Design Standards, and shall include a proposed
plant list, planting and irrigation design plans, calculations demonstrating
estimated water use, and maintenance plans as outlined in §§ 50.32 through
50.36. Plants and irrigation systems shall be maintained by the developer for a
period of 1 year after acceptance to ensure all live plants survive and
irrigation system leaks are repaired.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 12-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.32 LANDSCAPE DESIGN PLAN.
   (A)   The landscape design plan shall be drawn on project base sheets at a
scale that accurately and clearly identifies:
      (1)   Designation of hydrozones.
      (2)   Landscape materials, trees, shrubs, groundcover, turf and other
vegetation. Planting symbols shall be clearly drawn and plants shall be labeled
by botanical name, common name, container size, spacing and quantities of each
group of plants indicated.
      (3)   Property lines and street names.
      (4)   Streets, driveways, walkways and other paved areas.
      (5)   Pools, ponds, water features, fences and retaining walls.
      (6)   Existing and proposed buildings and structures, including the
elevation if applicable.
      (7)   Natural features, including, but not limited to, wetlands, rock
outcroppings, existing trees and shrubs that will remain.
      (8)   Tree staking, plant installation, soil preparation details, and any
other applicable planting and installation details.
      (9)   A calculation of the total landscaped area.
      (10)   Designation of recreational areas.
   (B)   Plant selection and grouping. Plants shall be selected and planted
appropriately, based upon their adaptability to the climatic, geologic and
topographical conditions of the project site.
      (1)   To encourage the efficient use of water, the following is highly
recommended:
         (a)   Recognize the horticultural attributes of plants (i.e., mature
plant size, invasive surface roots) to minimize damage to property or
infrastructure (e.g., buildings, sidewalks, power lines).
         (b)   Consider the solar orientation for plant placement to maximize
summer shade and winter solar gain.
      (2)   Any plants may be used in the landscape, providing the estimated
applied water use recommended does not exceed the maximum applied water
allowance, except that fire-prone plant materials and highly flammable mulches
shall be avoided.
      (3)   Plants having similar water use shall be grouped together in
distinct hydrozones.
      (4)   Plants shall be selected appropriately, based upon their
adaptability to the climatic, geologic and topographical conditions of the
site. Protection and preservation of native species and natural areas is
encouraged. The planting of trees is encouraged wherever it is consistent with
the other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.33 WATER-EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE WORKSHEET.
   A project applicant shall complete the water-efficient landscape worksheet,
which contains two sections:
   (A)   A hydrozone information table for the landscape project; and
   (B)   A water budget calculation for the landscape project. The project
applicant shall use the WaterSense Water Budget Tool. Oregon WaterWise
Gardening program documents are hereby incorporated by reference to assist the
applicant in implementing landscaping to ensure water-use efficiency.
      (1)   Water budget calculations shall adhere to the following
requirements:
         (a)   The plant factor used shall be from WUCOLS. The plant factor
ranges are from zero to 0.3 for low water use plants, from 0.4 to 0.6 for
moderate water use plants, and from 0.7 to 1.0 for high water use plants.
         (b)   All water features shall be included in the high water use
hydrozone, and temporarily irrigated areas shall be included in the low water
use hydrozone.
         (c)   All special landscape areas shall be identified and their water
use calculated as described below.
         (d)   ETAF for special landscape areas shall not exceed 1.0.
      (2)   The maximum applied water allowance. A project’s maximum applied
water allowance shall be calculated using the following formula:
MAWA = (ETo) (0.8) (LA) (0.62) where:
   •   MAWA = Maximum applied water allowance (gallons per year)
   •   ETo = Reference evapotranspiration (inches per year)
   •   0.8 = ET adjustment factor
   •   LA = Landscaped area (square feet)
   •   0.62 = Conversion factor (to gallons per square foot)
      (3)   Portions of landscaped areas in public and private projects, such
as parks, playgrounds, sports fields, golf courses or school yards, where turf
provides a playing surface or serves other recreational purposes, are
considered recreational areas and may require water in addition to the maximum
applied water allowance. A statement shall be included with the landscape
design plan, designating recreational areas to be used for such purposes, and
specifying any needed amount of additional water above the maximum applied
water allowance.
(Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.34 IRRIGATION DESIGN PLAN.
   (A)   For the efficient use of water, an irrigation system shall meet all
the requirements listed in this section and the manufacturer’s recommendations.
The irrigation system and its related components shall be planned and designed
to allow for proper installation, management and maintenance. An irrigation
design plan meeting the following design criteria shall be submitted as part of
the landscape documentation package.
      (1)   System.
         (a)   To facilitate water management, dedicated landscape water meters
are highly recommended on landscape areas smaller than 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Weather-based irrigation controllers, soil-moisture-based
controllers or other self-adjusting irrigation controllers shall be required
for irrigation scheduling in all irrigation systems.
         (c)   The irrigation system shall be designed to ensure that the
dynamic pressure at each emission device is within the manufacturer’s
recommended pressure range for optimal performance.
            1.   If the static pressure is above or below the required dynamic
pressure of the irrigation system, pressure-regulating devices, such as inline
pressure regulators, booster pumps or other devices, shall be installed to meet
the required dynamic pressure of the irrigation system.
            2.   Static water pressure, dynamic or operating pressure and flow
reading of the water supply shall be measured at the point of connection. These
pressure and flow measurements shall be conducted at the design stage. If the
measurements are not available at the design stage, the measurements shall be
conducted at installation.
      (2)   Sensors (rain, freeze, wind, and the like), either integral or
auxiliary, that suspend or alter irrigation operation during unfavorable
weather conditions, such as rain or a freeze, shall be required on all
irrigation systems, as appropriate for local climatic conditions. Irrigation
should be avoided during windy or freezing weather or during rain.
      (3)   Manual shut-off valves (such as a gate valve, a ball valve or a
butterfly valve) shall be required, as close as possible to the point of
connection of the water supply, to minimize water loss in case of an emergency
(such as a main-line break) or routine repair.
      (4)   Backflow-prevention devices shall be required to protect the water
supply from contamination by the irrigation system. A project applicant shall
refer to the City Code, the City Public Works Design Standards, the Oregon
Plumbing Specialty Code (latest version) and the Oregon Health Authority rules
(OAR 333, Div 61), regarding cross-connection and backflow-prevention
requirements.
      (5)   High-flow sensors that detect and report high-flow conditions
created by system damage or malfunction are recommended.
      (6)   The irrigation system shall be designed to prevent runoff, low-head
drainage, overspray or other similar conditions, where irrigation water flows
onto non-targeted areas, such as adjacent property, non-irrigated areas,
hardscapes, roadways or structures.
      (7)   Relevant information from the soil management plan, such as soil
type and infiltration
rate, shall be utilized when designing irrigation systems.
      (8)   The design of the irrigation system shall conform to the hydrozones
of the landscape design plan.
      (9)   The irrigation system must be designed and installed to meet
irrigation efficiency criteria. For the purpose of determining maximum applied
water allowance, average irrigation efficiency is assumed to be 0.71.
Irrigation systems shall be designed, maintained and managed to meet or exceed
an average landscape irrigation efficiency of 0.71.
      (10)   It is highly recommended that the project applicant or local
agency inquire with the local water purveyor about peak water operating demands
(on the water supply system) or water restrictions that may impact the
effectiveness of the irrigation system.
      (11)   In mulched planting areas, the use of low-volume irrigation is
required to maximize water infiltration into the root zone.
      (12)   Sprinkler heads and other emission devices shall have matched
precipitation rates, unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer’s
recommendations.
      (13)   Head-to-head coverage is recom-mended. However, sprinkler spacing
shall be designed to achieve the highest possible distribution uniformity using
the manufacturer’s recommendations.
      (14)   Swing joints or other riser-protection components are required on
all risers subject to damage that are adjacent to high-traffic areas.
      (15)   Check valves or anti-drain valves are required for all irrigation
systems.
      (16)   Long, narrow or irregularly-shaped areas, including turf, less
than 8 feet in width in any direction, shall be irrigated with subsurface
irrigation or low-volume irrigation technology.
      (17)   Overhead irrigation shall not be permitted within 24 inches of any
nonpermeable surface. Allowable irrigation within the setback from non-
permeable surfaces may include drip, drip line or other low-flow, non-spray
technology. The setback area may be planted or unplanted. The surfacing of the
setback may be mulch, gravel or other porous material. These restrictions may
be modified if:
         (a)   The landscape area is adjacent to permeable surfacing and no
overspray or runoff occurs; or
         (b)   The adjacent nonpermeable surfaces are designed and constructed
to drain entirely to landscaping; or
         (c)   The irrigation designer specifies an alternative design or
technology as part of the landscape documentation package and clearly
demonstrates strict adherence to irrigation system design. Prevention of
overspray and runoff must be confirmed during irrigation audit.
   (B)   Hydrozone.
      (1)   Each valve shall irrigate a hydrozone with similar site, slope, sun
exposure, soil conditions and plant materials with similar water use.
      (2)   Sprinkler heads and other emission devices shall be selected, based
on what is appropriate for the plant type within that hydrozone.
      (3)   Where feasible, trees shall be placed on separate valves from
shrubs, groundcovers and turf.
      (4)   Individual hydrozones that mix plants of moderate- and low-water-
use or moderate- and high-water-use may be allowed if:
         (a)   Plant factor calculation is based on the proportions of the
respective plant water uses and their plant factor; or
         (b)   The plant factor of the higher-water-using plant is used for
calculations.
      (5)   Individual hydrozones that mix high- and low-water-use plants shall
not be permitted.
      (6)   On the landscape design plan and the irrigation design plan,
hydrozone areas shall be designated by number, letter or other designation. On
the irrigation design plan, the areas irrigated shall be designated by each
valve, and a number shall be assigned to each valve. This valve number shall be
used in the hydrozone information table. This table can also assist with pre-
inspection and final inspection of the irrigation system, and in programming
the controller.
      (7)   Irrigation design plan specifications. Irrigation systems shall be
designed to be consistent with hydrozones. The irrigation design plan shall be
drawn on project base sheets. It shall be separate from, but use the same
format as, the landscape design plan. The irrigation design plan shall
accurately and clearly identify:
         (a)   Location and size of separate water meters for the landscape.
         (b)   Location, type and size of all components of the irrigation
system, including automatic controllers, main and lateral lines, valves,
sprinkler heads, moisture-sensing devices, rain switches, quick couplers, and
backflow-revention devices.
         (c)   Static water pressure at the point of connection to the public
water supply.
         (d)   Flow rate (in gallons per minute), application rate (in inches
per hour) and design operating pressure (psi) for each station.
      (8)    At a minimum, the irrigation design plan submitted to the local
agency shall follow standard industry practices and applicable local agency
requirements, including:
         (a)   Location and size of separate water meters for landscape;
         (b)   Location, type and size of all components of the irrigation
system, including controllers, main and lateral lines, valves, sprinkler heads,
moisture-sensing devices, rain switches, quick couplers, pressure regulators
and backflow-prevention devices;
         (c)   Static water pressure at the point of connection to the public
water supply;
         (d)   Flow rate (in gallons per minute), application rate (in inches
per hour) and design operating pressure (psi) for each station;
         (e)   The signature of a licensed landscape architect, certified
irrigation designer, irrigation consultant, licensed landscape contractor or
any other applicable landscape professional or person, licensed or unlicensed,
authorized to design an irrigation system.
         (f)   Irrigation schedules satisfying the following conditions shall
be submitted as part of the landscape documentation package.
         (g)   An annual irrigation program, with monthly irrigation schedules,
shall be required for the plant establishment period, for the established
landscape, and for any temporarily irrigated areas.
   (C)   Maintenance schedules. A regular maintenance schedule satisfying the
following conditions shall be submitted as part of the landscape documentation
package:
      (1)   Landscapes shall be maintained to ensure water efficiency.
      (2)   A regular maintenance schedule shall include, but not be limited
to, checking, adjusting and repairing irrigation equipment; resetting the
automatic controller; aerating and dethatching turf areas; replenishing mulch;
fertilizing; pruning and weeding in all landscaped areas.
(Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.35 IRRIGATION SCHEDULING.
   For the efficient use of water, all irrigation schedules shall be developed,
managed and evaluated to utilize the minimum amount of water required to
maintain plant health. Irrigation schedules shall meet the following criteria.
   (A)   Irrigation scheduling shall use automatic irrigation systems and
evapotranspiration data such as those from the Bureau of Reclamation AgriMet
tool and local or regional weather-monitoring stations.
   (B)   The irrigation schedule shall:
      (1)   Include run time (in minutes per cycle), suggested number of cycles
per day, and frequency of irrigation for each station.
      (2)   Provide the amount of applied water (in hundred cubic feet, gallons
or in whatever billing units the local water supplier uses) recommended on a
monthly and annual basis.
      (3)   The total amount of water for the project shall include water
designated in the estimated total water use calculation, plus water needed for
any water features, which shall be considered as a high-water-using hydrozone.
      (4)   Recreational areas designated in the landscape design plan shall be
highlighted and the irrigation schedule shall indicate if any additional water
is needed above the maximum applied water allowance because of high plant
factors (but not due to irrigation inefficiency).
      (5)   Whenever possible, irrigation scheduling shall incorporate the use
of evapotranspira-tion data, such as those from local or regional weather-
monitoring stations (as close as geograph-ically possible to the city), to
apply the appropriate levels of water for irrigation and season.
   (C)   Overhead irrigation shall be scheduled between 8:00 p.m. and 10:00
a.m. unless weather conditions prevent it. If allowable hours of irrigation
differ from the local water purveyor, the stricter of the two shall apply.
Operation of the irrigation system outside the normal watering window is
allowed for auditing and system maintenance.
   (D)   For implementation of the irrigation schedule, particular attention
must be paid to irrigation run times, emission device, flow rate, and current
reference evapotranspiration, so that applied water meets the estimated total
water use. Total annual applied water shall be less than or equal to maximum
applied water allowance (MAWA). Actual irrigation schedules shall be based on
current, time-reference evapotranspiration data or soil-moisture sensor.
   (E)   Parameters used to set the controller shall be developed and submitted
for each of the following:
      (1)   The plant establishment period;
      (2)   The established landscape; and
      (3)   Temporarily irrigated areas.
   (F)   Each irrigation schedule shall consider for each station all of the
following that apply;
      (1)   Irrigation interval (days between irrigation);
      (2)   Irrigation run times (hours or minutes per irrigation event to
avoid runoff);
      (3)   Number of cycle starts required for each irrigation event to avoid
runoff;
      (4)   Amount of applied water scheduled to be applied on a monthly basis;
      (5)   Application-rate setting;
      (6)   Root-depth setting;
      (7)   Plant-type setting;
      (8)   Soil type;
      (9)   Slope-factor setting;
      (10)   Shade-factor setting; and
      (11)   Irrigation-uniformity or efficiency setting,
(Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.36 LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Landscapes shall be maintained to ensure water-use efficiency. A
regular maintenance schedule shall be submitted with the certificate of
completion.
   (B)   A regular maintenance schedule shall include, but not be limited to,
routine inspection; adjustment and repair of the irrigation system and its
components; aerating and dethatching turf areas; replenishing mulch;
fertilizing; pruning; weeding in all landscape areas and removing any
obstruction to emission devices.
   (C)   Repair of all irrigation equipment shall be done with the originally-
installed components or their equivalents.
   (D)   A project applicant is encouraged to implement sustainable or
environmentally-friendly practices for overall landscape maintenance
   (E)   Low-flow plumbing fixtures. All new development shall be constructed
with plumbing fixtures meeting the requirements of this section or the latest
edition of the Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code. The code requirement specifying
fixtures conserving the greatest amount of water for each fixture shall apply.
Fixtures for residential development include toilets, shower heads, lavatory
sink faucets, spray sprinkler bodies, and irrigation timers. In addition to
these fixtures, commercial and industrial facilities shall include prerinse
sprayers (kitchens), flush-valve toilets and urinals.
      (1)   Individual shower- and tub-shower-combination-control valves.
         (a)   Single and multiple showerheads serving 1 shower. Showerheads
shall have a maximum flow rate of 2.0 gallons (7.57 L) per minute, measured at
80 psi. Showerheads shall be certified to the performance criteria of the U.S.
EPA WaterSense specification for showerheads.
      (2)   Water closets.
         (a)   General. All water closets shall have a maximum consumption not
to exceed 1.28 gallons (4.8 L) of water per flush in accordance with ASME
A112.19.2/CSA B45.1.
         (b)   Flushometer valve-activated water closets. Flushometer valve-
activated water closets shall have a maximum flush volume of 1.28 gallons (4.8
L) per flush in accordance with ASME A112.19.2
      (3)   Urinals. Wall-mounted and all other urinals shall have an average
consumption not to exceed 0.125 gallons (0.47 L) per flush. Other urinals shall
have an average water consumption not to exceed 0.5 gallons (1.89 L) per flush.
      (4)   Wash-fountain faucets and fixture fittings.
         (a)   Wash fountains. Wash fountains shall have a maximum flow rate of
not more than 1.8 gallons (6.8 L) per minute/20 [rim space (inches) at 60 psi].
         (b)   Metering faucets. Metering faucets for wash fountains shall have
a maximum flow rate of not more than 0.20 gallons (0.76 L) per cycle/20 [rim
space (inches) at 60 psi].
      (5)   Sink faucets. Sink faucets shall have a maximum flow rate of not
more than 2.2 gpm (8.3 L/min) at 60 psi. Exceptions: clinical sinks, laundry
sinks, service sinks.
         (a)   Lavatory faucets. Lavatory faucets shall have a maximum flow
rate of 1.5 gallons (5.7L) per minute at 60 psi.
         (b)   Kitchen faucets. Kitchen faucets shall have a maximum flow rate
of not more than 1.8 gallons (6.8 L) per minute at 60 psi. Kitchen faucets may
temporarily increase the flow above the maximum rate, but not to exceed 2.2
gallons (8.3 L) per minute at 60 psi, and must default to the maximum rate of
1.8 gallons (6.8L) per minute at 60 psi.
(Ord. 2018-10-01, passed 12-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500.
(Ord. 90.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2021-12-01, passed 1-11-2022)
CHAPTER 51: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Application and responsibilities
   
51.04   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
51.05   Annual testing
   
51.06   Records and reports
   
51.07   Violations of cross connection program resulting in discontinuing water
service to user premises
   
51.08   Emergency response plan and water system operations manual
   
Exhibit 1   Premises Requiring Isolation
   
Exhibit 2   Backflow Prevention Methods
   
Exhibit 3   333-061-0071 Backflow Prevention Assembly Installation and
Operation Standards
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Develop and manage a cross connection control program to protect the
city water system from pollution and contamination due to any existing or
potential cross connections; and
   (B)   Have a city water system cross connection control program that meets
the minimum requirements set forth in OAR Chapter 333-061-0070-0073, cross
connection control requirements, or as that chapter is amended.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED AIR GAP (AG). A physical separation between the free-flowing
discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressurized
receiving vessel. An APPROVED AIR GAP shall be at least twice the diameter of
the supply pipe measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel and in
no case less than 1 inch (2.54 cm), and in accord with Oregon Plumbing
Specialty Code.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (AVB). A non-testable device consisting of an air
inlet valve or float check, a check seat and an air inlet port(s). This device
is designed to protect against a non-health hazard or a health hazard under a
backsiphonage condition only. Product and material approval is under the Oregon
Plumbing Specialty Code.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any sources other than
its intended source, and is caused by backsiphonage or backpressure.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device, assembly or method to prevent backflow into
the potable water system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. A backflow prevention assembly such as a
pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage prevention assembly, spill-resistant
pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage prevention assembly, double check valve
backflow prevention assembly, double check-detector backflow prevention
assembly, reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly, or reduced
pressure principle-detector backflow prevention assembly and the attached
shutoff valves on the inlet and outlet ends of the assembly, assembled as a
complete unit.
   BACKPRESSURE. An elevation of pressure downstream of the distribution system
that means a drop in distribution system pressure below atmospheric would
cause, or tend to cause, water to flow opposite of its intended direction.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. Pressure (partial vacuum), that would cause, or tend to
cause, water to flow opposite of its intended direction.
   CHECK VALVE. A valve, which allows flow in only 1 direction.
   CONTAMINANT. Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance
or matter in water that creates a health hazard.
   CONTINGENCY PLAN. A document setting out an organized, planned and
coordinated course of action to be followed in the event of a loss of capacity
to supply water to the distribution system or in case of a fire, explosion or
release of hazardous waste which could threaten human health or the
environment.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any actual or potential unprotected connection or
structural arrangement between the city or user's potable water system and any
other source or system through which it is possible to introduce into any part
of the potable system any used water, industrial fluid, gas, or substances
other than the intended potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass
arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel, or change-over
devices, and other temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of
which, backflow can occur are considered to be cross connections.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Either pollution (non-health hazard) or contamination
(health hazard) and is determined by an evaluation of hazardous conditions
within a system.
   DEPARTMENT. The Oregon Department of Human Services (DHS).
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (DCDA). A specially
designed assembly composed of a line size approved double check valve assembly
assembled with a bypass containing a specific water meter and an approved
double check valve assembly. The meter shall register accurately for only very
low rates of flow up to 3 gallons per minute and shall show a registration for
all rates of flow. This assembly is designed to protect against a non-health
hazard.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (DC). An assembly of 2
independently acting approved check valves, including tightly closing resilient
seated shutoff valves attached at each end of the assembly and fitted with
properly located resilient seated test cocks. This assembly is designed to
protect against a non-health hazard.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership,
municipal, state or federal agency, or joint stock company and includes any
receiver, special master, trustee, assignee, or other similar representative
thereof.
   POINT OF DELIVERY (POD). The point of connection between the city water
system and the user's water system. Beyond the point of delivery, the Oregon
Plumbing Specialty Code applies. See SERVICE CONNECTION.
   POLLUTANT. A substance that creates an impairment of the quality of the
water to a degree which does not create a hazard to the public health, but
which does adversely affect the aesthetic qualities of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which has sufficiently low concentrations of
microbiological, inorganic chemical, organic chemical, radiological or physical
substances so that individuals drinking such water at normal levels of
consumption, will not be exposed to disease organisms or other substances which
may produce harmful physiological effects.
   POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION. A cross connection that would most likely occur,
but may not be taking place at the time of an inspection.
   PREMISE. Real estate and the structures on it.
   PREMISE ISOLATION. The practice of protecting the city water supply from
contamination or pollution by installing backflow prevention assemblies at, or
near, the point of delivery where the water supply enters the premise. Premise
isolation does not guarantee protection to persons on the premise.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER BACK- SIPHONAGE PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (PVB). An
assembly consisting of an independently operating, internally loaded check
valve and an independently operating loaded air inlet valve located on the
discharge side of the check valve. This assembly is to be equipped with
properly located resilient seated test cocks and tightly closing resilient
seated shutoff valves attached at each end of the assembly. This assembly is
designed to protect against a non-health hazard or a health hazard under
backsiphonage conditions only.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The city water system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP). An assembly
containing 2 independently acting approved check valves, together with a
hydraulically operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief
valve located between the check valves and at the same time below the first
check valve. The unit shall include properly located resilient seated test
cocks and tightly closing resilient seated shutoff valves at each end of the
assembly. This assembly is designed to protect against a non-health hazard or a
health hazard.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE-DETECTOR BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RPDA). A
specifically designed assembly composed of a line size approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly with a bypass containing a
specific water meter and an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly. The meter shall register accurately for only very low
rates of flow up to 3 gallons per minute and shall show a registration for all
rates of flow. This assembly is designed to protect against a non-health hazard
or a health hazard.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The piping connection by means of which water is
conveyed from a distribution main of the city system to a user's premise. For
the city, the portion of the service connection that conveys water from the
distribution main to the user's property line, or to the service meter, where
provided, is under the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.03 APPLICATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The ordinance codified in this chapter applies throughout the city and
to every premise and property served by the city water system. It applies to
all premises, regardless of the date of connection to the city water system.
Every owner, occupant or person in control of any concerned premise is
responsible for the terms and provisions contained in this ordinance codified
in this chapter. No water service connection to any premise shall be installed
or maintained by the city unless the public water supply is protected as
required by state laws and regulations and this ordinance.
   (B)   The city's responsibility for cross connection control shall begin at
the water supply source, including all city treatment, storage, and
distribution facilities under the city's control, and end at the point of
delivery to the water user's premise.
   (C)   The city shall require approved air gaps, the use of only approved
devices, and inspections and tests of approved backflow prevention assemblies
protecting the city water system inspections to be conducted: at the time of
any service installation, repair, or relocation; again at least annually; or
more frequently than annually for approved backflow prevention assemblies that
repeatedly fail, or are protecting health hazard cross connections, as
determined by the city; after a backflow incident; or after an approved air gap
is re-plumbed. The result of the test of a backflow prevention device assembly
required under this chapter shall be forwarded to the city within 10 days of
the date of the test. If the city has not received the result of a test
required under this chapter within 30 days of the required date of the test,
the city may order a test and add the cost of the test to the property owner's
water bill.
   (D)   The Water Department shall supply a list of approved devices and have
available contractors or staff to install the device for a fee that shall be
published prior to service.
   (E)   A water user or premise owner who obtains water from the city must
notify the city if they add any chemical or substance to their water.
   (F)   Those water users or premise owners with premises identified in
Exhibit 1 (Premises Requiring Isolation), must have an approved backflow
prevention assembly or an approved air gap installed.
   (G)   The city shall require the installation of an approved backflow
prevention assembly or an approved air gap commensurate with the degree of
hazard on the premise, as defined in
Exhibit 2 (Backflow Prevention Methods). Also, the city requires the
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly or an approved air gap
commensurate with the degree of hazard on the premises where there is intricate
plumbing that makes it impractical to ascertain whether a cross connection
exists.
   (H)   In lieu of premise isolation, the city may accept an in-premise
approved backflow prevention assembly as protection for the city water system
when the approved backflow prevention assembly is installed, maintained and
tested in accordance with the Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code and the Oregon
Administrative Rules.
   (I)   It is the responsibility of the water user or premise owner to repair,
replace or re-plumb approved air gaps, approved devices, or approved backflow
prevention assemblies found not to be functioning properly.
   (J)   Where premise isolation is used to protect against a cross connection,
the following requirements apply:
      (1)   The city shall: ensure the approved backflow prevention assembly is
installed at a location adjacent to the service connection or point of
delivery; ensure any alternate location used must be with the approval of the
city and must meet the city's cross connection control requirements; and notify
the premise owner and water user, in writing, of thermal expansion concerns;
      (2)   The premise owner shall: ensure no cross connections exist between
the point of delivery from the city water system and the approved backflow
prevention assemblies, when these are installed in an alternate location; and
assume responsibility for testing, maintenance, and repair of the installed
approved backflow prevention assembly to protect against the hazard;
      (3)   Where unique conditions exist, but not limited to, extreme terrain
or pipe elevation changes, or structures greater than 3 stories in height, even
with no actual or potential health hazard, an approved backflow prevention
assembly may be required at the point of delivery; and
      (4)   Where the city chooses to use premise isolation by the installation
of an approved backflow prevention assembly on a one- or two-family dwelling
under the jurisdiction of the Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code and there is no
actual or potential cross connection, the city shall:
         (a)   Install the approved backflow prevention assembly at the point
of delivery;
         (b)   Notify the premise owner and water user in writing of thermal
expansion concerns; and
         (c)   Take responsibility for testing, maintenance and repair of the
installed approved backflow prevention assembly.
   (K)   If an actual or potential cross connection exists within any premise,
the property owner will be required by letter from the Water Department to
install and test an approved backflow prevention assembly as required by OAR
333-61-0070 (1)(a)(H) (Cross Connection Control Requirements) at the service
connection to the premises within 90 days at owners expense.
   (L)   Installation, repair, disconnection or other modification of a
backflow prevention device assembly or air gap separation shall be at the sole
expense of the property owner or the owner of the mobile apparatus on which the
assembly or separation is located. If modification of the city's water system
is required to allow compliance with the requirements of this section, the
costs of such modifications may be added to the property owner's bill or may be
billed directly to the property owner.
   (M)   On new construction, the Water Department will inspect the site to
determine if a potential cross connection exists and if so a double check valve
assembly (DCVA) has been properly installed and tested.
   (N)   On existing homes the Water Department will perform on-site
inspections and notify the owner by letter if any corrective action is
necessary.
   (O)   The owner/user shall be responsible for the cost and elimination or
isolation of all cross connections on their property.
   (P)   All threats will be classified by degree of hazard. Where a threat is
identified, the city will require the installation of approved backflow
prevention device at least commensurate with the degree of hazard that exists.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.04 EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   A backflow prevention device assembly installed before the effective date of
this section shall be permitted to remain in service regardless of whether the
device is currently approved by the city, so long as the device:
   (A)   Was an approved device by the State Health Division at the time of
installation;
   (B)   Was properly installed at the time of installation;
   (C)   Is:
         (a)   Properly maintained;
         (b)   Commensurate with the degree of hazard;
         (c)   Tested annually as required by this section; and
         (d)   Performs satisfactorily.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.05 ANNUAL TESTING.
   All testable backflow devices shall be tested and inspected yearly by a
certified tester at the owner's expense. The owner shall provide a copy of that
report to the Water Department within 10 days of receiving it.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.06 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Water Department will maintain master files on customer's cross
connection installation, inspection, testing, applications and listings of high
and low hazard cross connections.
   (B)   An annual summary of cross connection inspections will be submitted to
the Oregon Health Department on forms supplied by the Department before the
last working day of March each year or as required by the Department.
   (C)   The Water Department will maintain:
      (1)   A current list of certified cross connection control staff members
(at least 1 person must be certified unless specifically exempted by the
Department);
      (2)   A list of the procedures for evaluating the degree of hazard posed
by a water user's premise;
      (3)   A list of procedures for notifying the water user if a non-health
hazard or health hazard is identified, and for informing the water user of
corrective action required;
      (4)   A description of the type of protection required to prevent
backflow into the public water supply, commensurate with the degree of hazard
that exists on the water user's premise, as defined in
Exhibit 2;
      (5)   A description of what corrective actions will be taken if a water
user fails to comply with the city's cross connection control requirements; and
      (6)   Records of verifications of backflow assembly tester
certifications.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.07 VIOLATIONS OF CROSS CONNECTION PROGRAM RESULTING IN DISCONTINUING WATER
SERVICE TO USER PREMISES.
   The following actions by water users will result in discontinuation of water
service to the premise:
   (A)   Failure to remove or eliminate an existing unprotected or potential
cross connection within 30 days of notice;
   (B)   Failure to install a required approved backflow prevention assembly
within 30 days of notice;
   (C)   Failure to maintain an approved backflow prevention assembly within 30
days of notice; and
   (D)   Failure to conduct the required testing of an approved backflow
prevention assembly within 60 days of notice.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 51.08 EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN AND WATER SYSTEM OPERATIONS MANUAL.
   The city shall maintain a current emergency response plan as required by OAR
333-061-0064 as shown in Exhibit 4, incorporated herein by this reference.
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
EXHIBIT 1:    PREMISES REQUIRING ISOLATION* BY AN APPROVED AIR GAP OR REDUCED
PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY
1.   Agricultural (e.g. farms, dairies)
2.   Beverage bottling plants **
3.   Car washes
4.   Chemical plants
5.   Commercial laundries and dry cleaners
6.   Premises where both reclaimed and potable water are used
7.   Film processing plants
8.   Food processing plants
9.   Medical centers (e.g., hospitals, medical clinics, nursing homes, veterinary
clinics, dental clinics, blood plasma centers)
10.   Premises with irrigation systems that use the water supplier's water with
chemical additions (e.g., parks, playgrounds, golf courses, cemeteries, housing
estates, installed lawn sprinkler systems)
11.   Laboratories
12.   Metal plating industries
13.   Mortuaries
14.   Petroleum processing or storage plants
15.   Radioactive material processing plants and nuclear reactors
16.   Wastewater lift stations and pumping stations
17.   Wastewater treatment plants
18.   Premises with piping under pressure for conveying liquids other than potable
water and the piping is installed in proximity to potable water piping
19.   Premises with an auxiliary water supply that is connected to a potable water
supply
20.   Premises where the water supplier is denied access or restricted access for
survey
21.   Premises where the water is being treated by the addition of chemical or
other additives
 
*   Refer to OAR 333-61-0070(8) Premise Isolation Requirements
**   A Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Assembly could be used if the
water supplier determines there is only a non-health hazard at a beverage
bottling plant
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
EXHIBIT 2:    BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHODS USED FOR PREMISE ISOLATION
DEGREE OF IDENTIFIED HAZARD
Non-Health Hazard (Pollutant) Health Hazard (Contaminant)
DEGREE OF IDENTIFIED HAZARD
Non-Health Hazard (Pollutant)             Health Hazard (Contaminant)
BACKSIPHONAGE OR BACKPRESSURE             BACKSIPHONAGE OR BACKPRESSURE
Air Gap (AG)                              Air Gap (AG)
Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow       Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow
Prevention Assembly (RP)                  Prevention Assembly (RP)
Reduced Pressure Principle-Detector       Reduced Pressure Principle-Detector
Backflow Prevention Assembly (RPDA)       Backflow Prevention Assembly (RPDA)
Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention
Assembly (DC)
Double Check-Detector Backflow Prevention
Assembly (DCDA)
 
Statutory Authority: O.R.S. 431 & O.R.S. 448
Stats. Implemented: O.R.S. 431.110, O.R.S. 431.150, O.R.S. 448.131, O.R.S.
448.150, O.R.S. 448.268, O.R.S. 448.271, O.R.S. 448.273, O.R.S. 448.279, O.R.S.
448.295 & O.R.S. 448.300
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
EXHIBIT 3: 333-061-0071 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY INSTALLATION AND OPERATION
STANDARDS
   (1)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed in a
manner that:
      (a)   Facilitates its propery operation, maintenance, inspection, and in-
line testing using standard installation procedures approved by the Department,
such as, but not limited to, University of Southern California, Manual of
Cross-Connection Control, 9th Edition, the Pacific Northwest Section American
Water Works Association, Cross Connection Control Manual, 6th Edition, or the
local administrative authority having jurisdiction;
      (b)   Precludes the possibility of continuous submersion of an approved
backflow prevention assembly, and precludes the possibility of any prevention
assembly; and
      (c)   Maintains compliance with all applicable safety regulations and the
Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code.
   (2)   For premise isolation installation;
      (a)   The approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed at a
location adjacent to the service connection or point of delivery; or
      (b)   Any alternate location must be with the advance approval of the
water supplier and must meet the water supplier's cross connection control
requirements; and
      (c)   The premise owner shall ensure no cross connections exist between
the point of delivery from the public water system and the approved backflow
prevention assembly.
   (3)   Bypass piping installed around any approved backflow prevention
assembly must be equipped with an approved backflow prevention assembly to:
      (a)   Afford at least the same level of protection as the approved
backflow prevention assembly being bypassed; and
      (b)   Comply with all requirements of these rules.
   (4)   All Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code approved residential multi-purpose
fire suppression systems constructed of potable water piping and materials do
not require a backflow prevention assembly.
   (5)   Stand-along fire suppression systems shall be protected commensurate
with the degree of hazard, as defined in
Exhibit 2 (Backflow Prevention Methods).
   (6)   Stand-alone irrigation systems shall be protected commensurate with
the degree of hazard, as defined in
Exhibit 2 (Backflow Prevention Methods).
   (7)   An Atmospheric Vacuum Breaker (AVB) shall:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18.jpg]
 
      (a)   Have absolutely no means of shut-off on the downstream or discharge
side of the atmospheric vacuum breaker;
      (b)   Not be installed in dusty or corrosive atmospheres;
      (c)   Not be installed where subject to flooding;
      (d)   Be installed a minimum of 6 inches above the highest downstream
piping and outlets;
      (e)   Be used intermittently;
      (f)   Have product and material approval under the Oregon Plumbing
Specialty Code for non-testable devices,
      (g)   Not be pressurized for more than 12 hours in any 24-hour period;
and
      (h)   Be used to protect against backsiphonage only, not backpressure.
   (8)   A Pressure Vacuum Breaker Backsiphonage Prevention Assembly (PVB) or
Spill-Resistant Pressure Vacuum Breaker Backsiphonage Prevention Assembly (SVB)
shall:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-20.jpg]
 
      (a)   Be installed where occasional water discharge from the assembly
caused by pressure fluctuations will not be objectionable;
      (b)   Have adequate spacing available for maintenance and testing;
      (c)   Not be subject to flooding;
      (d)   Be installed a minimum of 12 inches above the highest downstream
piping and outlets;
      (e)   Have absolutely no means of imposing backpressure by a pump or
other means. The downstream side of the pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage
prevention assembly or spill-resistant pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage
prevention assembly may be maintained under pressure by a valve; and
      (f)   Be used to protect against backsiphonage only, not backpressure.
   (9)   A Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Assembly (DC) or Double Check
Detector Backflow Prevention Assembly (DCDA):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
 
      (a)   Shall conform to bottom and side clearances when the assembly is
installed inside a building;
      (b)   May be installed vertically as well as horizontally provided the
assembly is specifically listed for that orientation in the Department's
Approved Backflow Prevention Assembly List,
      (c)   May be installed below grade in a vault, provided that water-tight
fitted plugs or caps are installed in the test cocks, and the assembly shall
not be subject to continuous immersion;
      (d)   Shall not be installed at a height greater than 5 feet unless there
is a permanently installed platform meeting Oregon Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OR-OSHA) standards to facilitate servicing the assembly;
      (e)   May be installed with reduced clearances if the pipes are 2 inches
in diameter or smaller, provided that they are accessible for testing and
repairing, and approved by the appropriate local administrative authority
having jurisdiction;
      (f)   Shall have adequate drainage provided except that the drain shall
not be directly connected to a sanitary or storm water drain. Installers shall
check with the water supplier and appropriate local administrative authority
having jurisdiction for additional requirements;
      (g)   Shall be protected from freezing when necessary; and
      (h)   Be used to protect against non-health hazards under backsiphonage
and backpressure conditions.
   (10)   A Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly (RP) or
Reduced Pressure Principle-Detector Backflow Prevention Assembly (RPDA):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
 
      (a)   Shall conform to bottom and side clearances when the assembly is
installed inside a building. Access doors may be provided on the side of an
above-ground vault;
      (b)   Shall always be installed horizontally, never vertically, unless
they are specifically approved for vertical installation;
      (c)   Shall always be installed above the 100-year (1%) flood level
unless approved by the appropriate local administrative authority having
jurisdiction;
      (d)   Shall never have extended or plugged relief valves;
      (e)   Shall be protected from freezing when necessary;
      (f)   Shall be provided with an approved air gap drain;
      (g)   Shall not be installed in an enclosed vault or box unless a bore-
sighted drain to daylight is provided;
      (h)   May be installed with reduced clearances if the pipes are 2 inches
in diameter or smaller, are accessible for testing and repairing, and approved
by the appropriate local administrative authority having jurisdiction;
      (i)   Shall not be installed at a height greater than 5 feet unless there
is a permanently installed platform meeting Oregon Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OR-OSHA) standards to facilitate servicing the assembly;
and
      (j)   Be used to protect against a non-health hazard or health hazard for
backsiphonage or backpressure conditions.
Statutory Authority: O.R.S. 431 & O.R.S. 448
Stats. Implemented: O.R.S. 431.110, O.R.S. 431.150, O.R.S. 448.131, O.R.S.
448.150, O.R.S. 448.268 & O.R.S. 448.273
(Ord. 2007-11-04, passed 11-13-2007)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Powers of the Council
   
70.05   Implementation of regulations
   
70.06   Public danger
   
70.07   Standards
   
70.08   Authority of police and fire officers
   
70.09   Crossing private property
   
70.10   Unlawful riding
   
70.11   Roller skates, sleds, and the like
   
70.12   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
70.13   Removing glass and debris
   
70.14   Storage of motor vehicles on streets
   
70.15   Obstructing streets
   
70.16   Speed limits in public parks
   
70.17   Unnecessary noise
   
70.18   Method of parking
   
70.19   Prohibited parking or standing
   
70.20   Prohibited parking
   
70.21   Use of loading zone
   
70.22   Passenger loading zone
   
70.23   Standing or parking of buses and taxicabs
   
70.24   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
70.25   Lights on parked vehicle
   
70.26   Extension of parking time
   
70.27   Unattended vehicles
   
70.28   Exemption
   
70.29   Bicycle operating rules
   
70.30   Impounding of bicycles
   
70.31   Pedestrians must use crosswalks
   
70.32   Right angles
   
70.33   Prohibited activity
   
70.34   Parade permit
   
70.35   Appeal to Council
   
70.36   Offenses against parade
   
70.37   Permit revocable
   
70.38   Funeral procession
   
70.39   Offense against funeral
   
70.40   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
70.41   Failure to comply with parking citation attached to parked vehicle
   
70.42   Cancellation of parking citation
   
70.43   Owner responsibility
   
70.44   Registered owner presumption
   
70.45   Impoundment of vehicles
   
70.46   Traffic signs, control devices and markings
   
70.47   Vehicle parking in a fire lane
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the Banks Uniform Traffic Ordinance.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   O.R.S. Chapter 153 and the Oregon Vehicle Code, O.R.S. Chapters 801 through
822, are adopted by reference. Violation of an adopted provision of those
chapters is an offense against this city.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in the Oregon Vehicle Code, and for
the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUS STOP. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use by
buses loading or unloading passengers.
   LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified hours
of specified days.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
   STREET. The terms HIGHWAY, ROAD, RIGHT-OF-WAY, and STREET shall be
considered synonymous, unless the context precludes the construction. STREET
includes alleys and private streets that are open to the public where the City
Council expressly undertakes by resolution to enforce certain traffic and
parking regulations thereon.
   TAXICAB. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use by
taxicabs.
   TRAFFIC LANE. The area of the roadway used for the movement of a single line
of traffic.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2018-06-02, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 70.04 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall exercise all municipal
traffic authority for the city except those powers specifically and expressly
delegated by this chapter or another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of 1-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of parking meter zone;
      (5)   Designation of certain streets as bridle paths and prohibition of
horses and animals on other streets;
      (6)   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law;
      (7)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones;
      (8)   Revision of speed limits in parks;
      (9)   Temporary blocking or closing of streets;
      (10)   Establishment of bicycle lanes and paths and traffic controls for
the facilities;
      (11)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage;
      (12)   Issuance of overweight vehicle permits; and
      (13)   Establishment, removal, or alteration of the following classes of
traffic controls:
         (a)   Crosswalks, safety zones, and traffic lanes;
         (b)   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right, left, or U-turns, and the time when the prohibition
applies;
         (c)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking (e.g. parallel or diagonal) on public streets and private
streets that are open to the public;
         (d)   Loading zones and stops for vehicles; and
         (e)   Traffic-control signs.
      (14)   Establishment of city police enforcement of certain traffic and
parking regulations on private streets that are open to the public. Any such
designation shall be made by resolution of the Council and specify the private
street segments and the specific traffic or parking regulations that will be
enforced thereon. In the case of parking regulations the city shall also erect
one or more city parking regulation signs that state the applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2018-06-02, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 70.05 IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall implement the
ordinances, resolutions, and motions of the Council by installing, maintaining,
removing, and altering traffic-control devices. The installation shall be based
on the standards contained in the Oregon Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.06 PUBLIC DANGER.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the Administrator or
his or her designee may install temporary traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.07 STANDARDS.
   The regulations of the Administrator or his or her designee shall be based
on:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations, and rules promulgated by the Oregon
Transportation Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic-control standards.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.08 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is the duty of police officers to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other public emergency, officers of the
Police and Fire Departments may direct traffic, as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.09 CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall proceed from 1 street to an
intersecting street by crossing private property or premises open to the
public. This provision does not apply to the operator of a motor vehicle who
stops on the property to procure or provide goods or services.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No operator of a motor vehicle shall permit a passenger to, and no
passenger shall, ride on a motor vehicle on a street except on a portion of the
vehicle designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision does not
apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to a
person riding within a truck body in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person shall board or alight from a motor vehicle while the vehicle
is in motion on a street.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 ROLLER SKATES, SLEDS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates or a skateboard, or riding in or by means
of a coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall use the streets except
while crossing at a crosswalk, or in an authorized area.
   (B)   No person shall use the streets for traveling on skis, toboggans,
sleds, or similar devices, except where authorized.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive on a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall place dirt, wood, or other material in
the gutter or space next to the curb of a street with the intention of using it
as a driveway.
   (C)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
a device moved by a motor vehicle onto a curb or sidewalk without first
obtaining authorization from the city and posting bond if required. A person
who caused damage shall be responsible for the cost repair.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other
debris to be on a street shall remove the glass or other debris from the
street.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall store or permit to be stored a vehicle or other
personal property on a public right-of-way, a private street that is open to
the public, or other public property in excess of 48 hours without a permit
issued by the City Manager and displayed on the vehicle or personal property.
Failure to move a motor vehicle or other personal property at least 1,000 feet
within a 48-hour period constitutes prima facie evidence of storage and a
violation of this provision.
   (B)   A vehicle shall be in violation of this section if it remains parked
on the public right-of-way in the same location or within 1,000 feet of the
same location in a single 48-hour period. Compliance with this prohibition
requires a vehicle to be moved at least 1,000 feet every 48 hours to avoid
citation and towing. This section does not apply to recreational vehicles or
trailers used as temporary habitation under BMC90.08 (Use of a Recreational
Vehicle as a Dwelling).
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2013-12-01, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord.
2018-06-02, passed 8-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-08-02, passed 9-13-2022) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.15 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person shall park or leave on a street, including an alley, parking
strip, sidewalk, or curb, a vehicle part, trailer, box, ware, merchandise of
any description, or any other thing that impedes traffic or obstructs the view,
except as is allowed by this chapter or other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 SPEED LIMITS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street in a public park of this city at
a speed exceeding 15 mph unless signs erected indicate otherwise.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the city in such a manner as to
create or cause excessive noise. The operation of compression brakes, commonly
known as “Jacob” brakes, in a manner that creates unnecessary noise is
prohibited.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a motor vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches
of the edge of the curb, except where the street is marked or signed for angle
parking.
   (B)   Where parking spaces are designated on a street, no person shall stand
or park a vehicle other than in the indicated direction and, within a single
marked space, unless the size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance
impossible.
   (C)   The operator who first begins maneuvering a motor vehicle into a
vacant parking space on a street has priority to park in that space and no
other vehicle operator shall attempt to interfere.
   (D)   When the operator of a vehicle discovers that the vehicle is parked
close to a building to which the Fire Department has been summoned, the
operator shall immediately remove the vehicle from the area, unless otherwise
directed by police or fire officers.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 PROHIBITED PARKING OR STANDING.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Park or stand a vehicle in violation of state motor vehicle laws or in
violation of a lawfully erected parking limitation sign or marking.
   (B)   Park a vehicle in an alley other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of persons or materials, and in no case for a period in excess of 20
consecutive minutes in any two-hour period.
   (C)   Park a vehicle to block a driveway, including the driveway apron
taper.
   (D)   Park a vehicle within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
   (E)   Park a vehicle so as to obstruct the crosswalk.
   (F)   Park a vehicle so as to obstruct the sidewalk.
   (G)   Park a vehicle so as to obstruct mailbox access.
   (H)   Participate in any other minor parking violation that in the citing
officer’s reasonable discretion is unsafe or creates a traffic hazard.
   (I)   Park a vehicle on or in the public right-of-way when the vehicle is
not displaying current and valid vehicle license, registration tags or does not
have a current and valid registration.
   (J)   Park a vehicle on a private street that is open to the public where
the City Council has expressly undertaken parking enforcement on such a private
street and the city has erected parking regulation or “No Parking” signs
thereon.
   (K)   Park a vehicle in violation of BMC
70.14, prohibiting the storage of a motor vehicle in the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2013-04-02, passed 4-9-2013; Am. Ord.
2015-07-01, passed 8-11-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-12-01, passed 2-10-2017; Am. Ord.
2018-06-02, passed 8-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-08-02, passed 9-13-2022) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.20 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No operator shall park and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be parked on a
street for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
   (C)   Displaying advertising from the vehicle; and/or
   (D)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or
materials, in a place designated as a loading one when the hours applicable to
that loading zone are in effect. When the hours applicable to the loading zone
are in effect, the load and unloading shall not exceed the time limits posted.
If not time limits are posted, then the use of the zone shall not exceed 5
minutes for loading or unloading of passengers and personal baggage and 15
minutes for loading or unloading materials.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 PASSENGER LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in a
place designated as a passenger loading zone when the hours applicable to that
zone are in effect.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 STANDING OR PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stop, stand, or park the vehicle
on a street in a business district other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand,
respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the operator of
taxicab from temporarily stopping the taxicab outside a traffic lane while
loading or unloading passengers.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand, or a bus in a bus stop, except that the operator of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers when stopping does not interfere with a bus or taxicab waiting to
enter or about to enter the restricted space.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   No lights need be displayed upon a vehicle that is parked in accordance with
this chapter on a street where there is sufficient light to reveal a person or
object at a distance of at least 500 feet from the vehicle.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   Where maximum parking time limits are designated by sign, movement of a
vehicle within a block shall not extend the time limits for parking.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.27 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   When a police officer finds a motor vehicle parked or standing unattended
with the ignition key in the vehicle, the officer is authorized to remove the
key from the vehicle and deliver the key to the person in charge of the police
station.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.28 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter that regulate the parking, stopping, or
standing of vehicles do not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle of the city, county, state, or a public utility while
necessarily in use for construction or repair work on a street;
   (B)   A vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the collection,
transportation, or delivery of mail; and/or
   (C)   A vehicle of a disabled person who complies with the provisions of
O.R.S. 811.610 through 811.630.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.29 BICYCLE OPERATING RULES.
   (A)   A person shall not leave a bicycle so as to obstruct any roadway,
sidewalk, driveway or building entrance; and
   (B)   A person shall not ride on a sidewalk that is bordered by a bike path.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-10.29, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.30 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave a bicycle on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in charge. Consent is implied on private
business property unless bicycle parking is expressly prohibited.
   (B)   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of 24 hours
may be impounded by the Police Department.
   (C)   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation of
this chapter, that obstructs or impedes the free flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or otherwise endangers the public, may be immediately
impounded by the Police Department.
   (D)   If the owner of a bicycle impounded under this chapter can be readily
determined, the police shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner. No
impounding fee shall be charged to the owner of a stolen bicycle which has been
impounded.
   (E)   A bicycle impounded under this chapter that remains unclaimed shall be
disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of abandoned
or lost personal property.
   (F)   Except as provided in division (D) above, a fee, as set by Council
resolution, shall be charged to the owner of a bicycle impounded under this
section.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 PEDESTRIANS MUST USE CROSSWALKS.
   No person shall cross a street other than within a crosswalk in blocks with
marked crosswalks, except when there is no marked crosswalk within 200 feet
from the point of crossing.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a street other than by a route at right angles to
the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, unless crossing within
a crosswalk.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall organize or participate in a parade that may disrupt or
interfere with traffic without obtaining a permit. A permit shall always be
required of a procession of people using the public right-of-way and consisting
of 100 or more persons or 10 or more vehicles.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 PARADE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for parade permits shall be made to the City Recorder, or
any other city officer designated to be known as the Administrator, in regards
to this section, at least 7 days prior to the intended date of the parade,
unless the time is waived by the city officer accepting applications. The
designation of City Administrator in regards to this section shall be set by
motion of the Council.
(Am. Ord. 2007-70.34, passed 2-13-2007)
   (B)   Applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the proposed
parade;
      (2)   The date of the proposed parade;
      (3)   The desired route, including assembling points;
      (4)   The number of persons, vehicles, and animals that will be
participating in the parade;
      (5)   The proposed starting and ending time; and
      (6)   The application shall be signed by the person designated as
Chairperson.
   (C)   The Administrator shall issue a parade permit conditioned on the
applicant’s written agreement to comply with the terms of the permit, unless
the Administrator finds that:
      (1)   The time, route, and size of the parade will unreasonably disrupt
the movement of other traffic;
      (2)   The parade is of a size or nature that requires the diversion of so
great a number of police officers to properly police the line of movement and
contiguous areas that allowing the parade would deny reasonable police
protection to the city;
      (3)   The parade will interfere with another parade for which a permit
has already been issued;
      (4)   Information contained in the application is found to be false or a
material detail is omitted; and/or
      (5)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
   (D)   If 1 or more of the conditions listed in division (C) exists, the
Administrator may impose additional reasonable conditions on the permit such as
the Council or Administrator or ODOT has deemed necessary for a safe and
orderly parade event.
(Am. Ord. 2007-70.34, passed 2-13-2007)
   (E)   The Administrator shall notify the applicant of the decision within 3
days after receipt of the application.
   (F)   If the Administrator proposes alternatives or refuses to issue a
permit, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision to the
Council.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.35 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Administrator by filing a
written request of appeal with the Recorder within 48 hours after the
Administrator has proposed alternatives or refused to issue a permit.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule a hearing date, which shall not be later
than 3 days following the filing of the written appeal with the Recorder, and
shall notify the applicant of the date and time that he or she may appear
either in person or by a representative.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.36 OFFENSES AGAINST PARADE.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a parade or parade
participant.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a parade between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 PERMIT REVOCABLE.
   The Administrator may revoke a parade permit if circumstances clearly show
that the parade can no longer be conducted consistent with public safety.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.38 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (A)   No permit is required for a funeral procession.
   (B)   A funeral procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the
most direct route that is both legal and practical.
   (C)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control.
   (D)   All motor vehicles in the funeral procession shall be operated with
their lights on.
   (E)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (F)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
   (G)   Each driver in the procession shall follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as is practical and safe.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 OFFENSE AGAINST FUNERAL.
   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
between the vehicles comprising the procession.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   When a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this chapter, the officer finding the vehicle shall take
its license number and any other information displayed on the vehicle that may
identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a parking
citation instructing the operator to answer to the charge or pay the penalty
imposed within 31 calendar days during specific hours and at a specific time.
Nothing contained in this section will prevent an officer impounding a vehicle
as provided in §
70.45.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-02-02, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 70.41 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING CITATION ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If the operator does not respond to a parking citation affixed to a vehicle
within 5 working days, the municipal court may send a letter to the owner of
the vehicle informing the owner of the violation and giving notice that if the
citation is disregarded for a period of 10 days:
   (A)   The fine will be double; and
   (B)   The vehicle is subject to impoundment and may be sold if not redeemed.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.42 CANCELLATION OF PARKING CITATION.
   No person shall cancel or solicit the cancellation of a parking citation in
any manner, except when approved by the municipal judge.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle in violation of a parking restriction shall be
responsible for the offense, unless the use of the vehicle was secured by the
operator without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.44 REGISTERED OWNER PRESUMPTION.
   In a proceeding against a vehicle owner charging a violation of a
restriction on parking, proof that the vehicle was registered to the defendant
at the time of the violation shall constitute a presumption that the defendant
was the owner.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 70.45 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   When a vehicle is placed in a manner or location that constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, a police officer shall
order the owner or operator of the vehicle to remove it. If the vehicle is
unattended, the officer may cause the vehicle to be towed and stored at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall be liable for the costs of towing and storing,
even if the vehicle was parked by another or if the vehicle was initially
parked in a safe manner but subsequently became an obstruction or hazard.
   (B)   The disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under authority of this
section shall be in accordance with the procedures of the city relating to
impoundment and disposition of vehicles abandoned on the city streets.
   (C)   The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude the issuance of a
citation for violation of a provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   (E)   Whenever a police officer observes a vehicle parked in violation of a
provision of this chapter or state law, if the vehicle has 5 or more violations
against it that have been paid within the previous rotating calendar year, or 5
or more unpaid violations, in addition to issuing a citation, the officer may
cause the vehicle to be impounded. An impounded vehicle will not be released
until all outstanding fines and charges have been paid. Vehicles impounded
under authority of this division (E) will be disposed of in the same manner as
provided in division (B) above.
   (F)   When a vehicle is parked in a manner that constitutes a violation of §
70.14, a notice shall be placed on the vehicle commanding the owner of the
vehicle to remove it from the public right-of-way within 24 hours. The notice
shall inform the owner that the vehicle will be towed from the public right-of-
way at the owner's expense if the vehicle is not removed within 24 hours of the
notice being affixed to the vehicle, the vehicle may be towed by the order of
the Police Department in the same manner as provided in division (B) above.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-02-01, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 70.46 TRAFFIC SIGNS, CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   All city-erected traffic signs, control devices and markings
regulating vehicular traffic within the public right-of-way shall have the
force of law and may be enforced by any law enforcement officer or person
authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any person to
operate a motor vehicle or other conveyance on the public right-of-way in
violation of a city-erected traffic sign, control device or marking.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-11-2018) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.47 PARKING IN A FIRE LANE.
   (A)   No person will park or stand a vehicle upon or obstructing any street
or other premises open to the public marked with a curb or surface marking, or
posted with a sign, indicating the private premises are set aside as a fire
lane, fire apparatus access road, or access curb.
   (B)   This section is not intended to limit the authority of a property
owner to impound an improperly parked vehicle under the authority of O.R.S.
98.810 to 98.812 or any other applicable provision of law.
(Ord. 2008-02-03, passed 2-12-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
70.09 through
70.19 is punishable by fine not to exceed $200.
   (C)   Violation of §§
70.21 through
70.46 is punishable by fine not to exceed $100.
   (D)   Violation of a provision identical to a state statute is punishable by
fine not to exceed the penalty prescribed by the state statute.
(Ord. 80.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-11-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   NUISANCES
   
91.   ANIMALS
   
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
94.   BANKS URBAN FOREST
   
95.   DISTRESSED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
   
96.   REGULATION OF THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose and applicability
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Duty to maintain property
   
90.04   Nuisances affecting health
   
90.05   Nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
90.06   Nuisances - enforcement and penalty
   
90.07   Liability
   
90.08   Use of a recreational vehicle as a dwelling
   
90.09   Use of vehicles for lodging prohibited on city streets and property
§ 90.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter is designed to establish basic standards for the maintenance
and upkeep of private and public property throughout the city to protect public
health, safety and welfare and to help ensure that activities on 1 property do
not disturb or impact significantly the use or enjoyment of neighboring
properties. The owners and all persons in control of property within the city
shall adhere to these standards, and any violation shall be processed as a
civil infraction under the city's Civil Enforcement Chapter.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK.  Discarded, broken or disabled material including, but not limited to
furniture, appliances, toys, tires, machinery or other equipment and any other
item that is inoperable or otherwise unusable.
   LITTER.  Discarded waste materials, including but not limited to paper
wrappings, packaging
materials, discarded or used bottles, cans and other containers.
   NUISANCE.  Any condition or use of property that annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose of the public, unlawfully
interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render dangerous for passage
a public park, sidewalk, street or alley. Any violation of a substantive
requirement of any Banks City Code, ordinance or any permit or approval issued
by the City of Banks constitutes a nuisance.
   ORDINANCES.  All ordinances adopted by the Banks City Council and any state
law adopted therein by reference as these provisions now exist or may from time
to time be amended or supplemented, and any codification of city ordinances
that may be adopted.
   OWNER.  Any person with an ownership interest in real property, as shown on
the Washington County real property records or the most recent property tax
records, and any person in possession or control of real property such as a
renter, lessee, guest, invitee or other tenant.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation,
partnership, unincorporated association, local government, government agency or
other legal entity.
   PROPERTY.  Land and any improvements located thereon.
   TRASH.  Waste food products, household garbage, discarded furniture,
mattresses, inoperable or unused appliances, tires and the like.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 90.03 DUTY TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY.
   The following conditions are declared to be nuisances that jeopardize the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of Banks. No person shall engage in
any of the following activities, nor shall any owner, resident or user of any
real property or improvements, including a vacant lot, maintain or allow to be
maintained, any of the following conditions visible from any public right-of-
way or from any other property:
   (A)   Junk, trash, litter, discarded lumber, salvage materials or other
similar materials;
   (B)   Attractive nuisances dangerous to children, including but not limited
to abandoned, broken or neglected equipment, machinery, refrigerators and
freezers, excavations, wells or shafts, and any unguarded machinery;
   (C)   Broken or discarded furniture, equipment, furnishings or shopping
carts;
   (D)   Dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, or any other vegetation
that presents a hazard or danger to the public;
   (E)   Trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions that prevent drivers
or pedestrians from having a clear view of traffic signs and other control
devices or traffic approaching an intersection from cross streets in sufficient
time to stop before entering the intersection;
   (F)   Limbs of trees that are less than 8 feet above the surface of any
sidewalk, street or public right-of-way;
   (G)   Wires, except clotheslines, which are strung less than 15 feet above
the surface of the ground;
   (H)   Any sign or graffiti, not in compliance with the city's adopted sign
regulations, on the exterior of any building, fence or other structure;
   (I)   Vehicle parts or other articles of personal property which are
discarded or left in a state of disrepair, repair or partial construction;
   (J)   Any accumulation of growing or cut and piled grass, weeds, brambles,
branches, berry vines, or other vegetation;
   (K)   Hanging signs, awnings, A-frame signs and or similar structures in or
over the public right-of-way, streets or sidewalks without permit, or which are
situated in a manner that endangers public safety, or constructed and
maintained in violation of applicable city requirements;
   (L)   Vehicles, boats, trailers, or parts thereof, that are inoperable due
to lack of legal requirements, have no currently valid license or registration,
safety equipment or the like, or are not capable of being safely operated or
driven in the manner for which they were designed, or have been on the same
parcel of private property for 30 days or longer. This section shall not apply
to vehicles enclosed or stored within a building with walls and a roof that are
completely screened from public view.
   (M)   Sidewalks; duty of abutting property owner. The failure of a property
owner to maintain, keep and repair any sidewalk abutting the owner’s property
in a safe condition, to keep them free of accumulated ice, snow and leaves, is
declared to be a nuisance. It shall be the duty of all persons owning lots or
lands which have abutting sidewalks to maintain, keep and repair those
sidewalks in a safe condition, to keep them free of accumulated ice, snow and
leaves, and to not permit them to become or remain in a dangerous or unsafe
condition. Any owner of lots or lands who neglects to promptly comply with the
requirements of this section shall be liable to anyone injured by such
negligence. Any property owner who neglects or otherwise fails to perform any
duty required by this section and another person is injured as a result, the
property owner shall reimburse the city for all damages it has been compelled
to pay in such case, and those payments may be enforced in any court having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 2017-06-02, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 90.04 NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following conditions are declared to be nuisances that jeopardize the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of Banks. No person shall engage in
any of the following activities, nor shall any owner or resident of any real
property or improvements, including a vacant lot, maintain or allow to be
maintained, any of the following conditions:
   (A)   Decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (D)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, household appliances, tires, manure or
refuse of any kind;
   (E)   Garbage cans or other waste or septic containers that are not
flytight;
   (F)   Dilapidation or state of filthiness or uncleanness of any dwelling or
other structure that endangers health or life, violates the Dangerous Building
Code or attracts, harbors or permits entrance by rats, mice or other rodents;
   (G)   Smoke, noxious fumes, smells, gas, soot or cinders produced on a
property, that are not contained or filtered, and are allowed to leave the
property;
   (H)   Pollution or contamination of any public stream, river, lake, storm
sewer or other surface water body with soil, sediments or dust or the
contamination of any public or private street, road or storm water drainage
facility with dirt, dust or mud from any construction, earth moving, vegetation
removal or development activity;
   (I)   The discharge to, or contamination of, any surface water, stream,
well, ditch or public right-of-way by sewage, agricultural or industrial
wastes, silt, soil, mud or other pollutants;
   (J)   The excavation, exposing, destabilization or disturbing of public
utility lines or pipes, including sanitary sewer, water, stormwater and the
like and the failure to properly cover, stabilize and restore such utility
lines or pipes once they have been exposed or otherwise disturbed. The
installation or alteration of public utility lines or pipes shall be done in
compliance with applicable city requirements after consultation with the City
Engineer or other appropriate official, and shall be subject to final
inspection to ensure compliance with city requirements.
   (K)   All other acts, omissions, occupations or uses of property that are
deemed by the City Council, the Board of Health or Department of Environmental
Quality to be a nuisance or hazard to public health.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 90.05 NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following conditions are declared to be nuisances that jeopardize the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of Banks. No person shall engage in
any of the following activities, nor shall any owner, user or resident of any
real property or improvements, including a vacant lot, maintain or allow to be
maintained, any of the following conditions:
   (A)   Maintenance of explosives, flammable liquids, fungicides,
insecticides, herbicides, rodenticides, poisons, chemicals or other dangerous
substances stored or disposed of in any manner or amount in violation of any
applicable law;
   (B)   Frequent, loud or annoying noises or vibrations made or caused to be
made by a person, including but not limited to amplified music, singing or a
public address system, motor and engine noise from vehicles, lawn mowers,
garden tools or other machinery, horns, sirens and any other noise that can be
heard beyond the property on which the noise or vibration originates and which
unreasonably disturbs or interferes with the peace, comfort or repose of the
owners or inhabitants of neighboring property. Where applicable, proof of
violation of the noise level limitations set forth in OAR Chapter 340, Division
35 shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section, but proof of a
violation may be made by other or additional evidence;
   (C)   Buildings and alterations to buildings made or erected within fire
setback limits as established by applicable requirements of state law,
Washington County or the city;
   (D)   Obstruction to, or within 5 feet of, a fire hydrant or fire standpipe,
including fences, poles, trees, bushes or any other vegetation;
   (E)   Buildings, structures, or parts thereof which are abandoned or allowed
to fall into extreme disrepair. Any such structures determined by the City
Council, in consultation with the Fire Chief, to be hazardous to public safety
or to pose undue risk of fire, substantiate a violation;
   (F)   Uncut dry grass, ladder fuels including flammable bushes and/or mature
trees with branches lower than 8 feet and/or stores of leaf litter or dead
needles in the canopy within the area immediately surrounding a building or
residential structure. Any such neglected vegetation determined by the City
Council, in consultation with the Fire Chief, to pose undue risk of fire, or
significantly inhibit the defensibility of a building or habitable structure
presents a violation;
   (G)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the public's ordinary and safe
use of public property or public rights-of-way, including streets, alleys,
sidewalks and utility easements, unless specifically permitted by the city;
   (H)   Telecommunications receiving or transmitting antennas erected or
maintained in any manner in violation of any applicable law or regulation;
   (I)   Use of property abutting a public street or sidewalk or any use of a
public street or sidewalk, without first obtaining a permit, that causes large
crowds of people to gather and obstruct traffic or the free use of the streets
and sidewalks;
   (J)   The use of any property or improvement that is not allowed by the
city's land use regulations, or the failure to obtain a permit or other
governmental approval where one is required prior to engaging in a particular
use;
   (K)   The use or conveyance of property that was created in violation of the
procedural or substantive requirements of applicable subdivision or
partitioning laws.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 90.06 NUISANCES - ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter is a nuisance and a civil
infraction subject to enforcement and prosecution under the city's Civil
Enforcement Chapter in addition to any other means of enforcement available to
the city before any court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction.
Upon a determination that a person has violated any requirement or prohibition
of this chapter, that person shall be subject to a fine of up $500 per
violation. Each day of violation, event or occurrence may be deemed a separate
citable and punishable offense.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 90.07 LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable to any person for any loss, injury or damage to
persons or property arising from any act, omission, requirement or prohibition
of this chapter. Any person, owner or user of property that fails to promptly
comply with the requirements or prohibitions of this chapter shall be
answerable to any person injured by such a failure for any and all damages
recoverable by an action at law. If any claim or legal action is brought
against the city arising from a person's actions or failure to act as required
by this chapter, the person responsible for the action or failure to act that
gave rise to the claim shall be liable to the city for its costs and damages in
defending any such claim, including reasonable attorney and witness fees and
any penalty or judgment that a court may impose against the city.
(Ord. 2014-05-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 90.08 USE OF A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AS A DWELLING.
   (A)   For purpose of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAILER means any
vehicle that is self-propelled or towed by a motor vehicle and designed for
camping, non-permanent or recreational habitation.
   (B)   No person shall live, sleep or reside in a recreational vehicle or
trailer located on a lot or on a public street for more than 5 consecutive days
nor more than 10 days total in a 30-day period, unless a permit issued by the
City Manager is first obtained and displayed in the front window of the
recreational vehicle or trailer. The City Manager shall assess a $20 fee for
such a permit and may place reasonable conditions, including time limitations,
on the permit.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014; Am. Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 90.09 USE OF VEHICLES FOR LODGING PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   Lodging in vehicle prohibited. Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., no person shall use a vehicle for lodging on any public street, parking
lot or other public property in the city. As used in this section, vehicle
lodging means the combination of one or more of the activities in division (A)
(1) with one or more of the activities in division (A)(2) where it reasonably
appears, in light of all the circumstances, that a person is using a vehicle
for living accommodations. As used in this section, “vehicle” means any
vehicle, car, truck, van, a motorized or towed recreational vehicle, trailer or
coach.
      (1)   Storing of contents inside a vehicle that are not associated with
ordinary vehicle use, such as a sleeping bag bedroll, blanket, sheet, pillow,
kitchen utensils, cookware equipment, bodily fluids, the storage or placement
of personal possessions or belongings that obscure some or all of the vehicle’s
windows; and
      (2)   The preparation or cooking of meals or sleeping.
   (B)   Penalty. Violation of this section constitutes a civil infraction of
the Banks Code of Ordinances (BCO) that may be prosecuted pursuant to BCO Ch.
27 (Civil Enforcement).
   (C)   Exception. This section shall not apply when a recreational vehicle or
trailer is lawfully used for temporary habitation pursuant to BCO
90.08 (Use of a Recreational Vehicle as Dwelling).
(Ord. 2016-12-02, passed 2-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2022-08-04, passed 9-13-2022)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of county ordinance
   
91.02   Authorization of intergovernmental agreement
   
91.03   Copy of chapter
   
91.04   Confining animals to motor vehicles prohibited
   
91.05   Duties of driver of motor vehicle
   
91.06   Finders of lost dogs
   
91.07   Poisonous food
   
91.08   Animal regulation
   
91.09   Stray animals; fees
   
91.10   Exemption for police canines
   
91.11   Dangerous dogs
   
91.12   Fowl
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The City Council agrees, pursuant to O.R.S. 203.040, that the relevant
provisions of Washington County Chapter 6 shall apply in the City of Banks.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Recorder are authorized to execute the
intergovernmental agreements as may be necessary for the implementation of and
enforcement of Chapter 6 of the Washington County Code.
(Am. Ord. 2007-91.01, passed 2-13-2007)
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.02 AUTHORIZATION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT.
   The Mayor and City Recorder are authorized to execute the intergovernmental
agreements as may be necessary for the implementation of and enforcement of the
relevant chapter of the Washington County Code.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.03 COPY OF CHAPTER.
   A copy of the relevant Washington County Code Chapter is attached to
Ordinance 61.01 as reference. The City Recorder shall keep and make available
for public reference all intergovernmental agreements made under this section
of this code.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.04 CONFINING ANIMALS TO MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No animal shall be confined within or on a motor vehicle at any
location under the conditions as may endanger the health or well being of the
animal, including but not limited to dangerous temperature, lack of food, water
or attention, or confinement with a dangerous animal.
   (B)   Any animal control or peace officer is authorized to remove any animal
from a motor vehicle at any location when he or she reasonably believes it is
confined in violation of division (A) above. Any animal so removed shall be
impounded as provided by the relevant chapter of the Washington County Code.
The removing officer shall leave written notice of the removal and delivery,
including the officer’s name in a conspicuous, secure location on or within the
vehicle. The additional notice as may be required by Washington County Code
shall be given upon impoundment of the removed animal.
   (C)   Neither the city nor any animal control or peace offer shall be held
criminally or civilly liable for action pursuant to the section, provided he or
she acts in good faith or probable cause and without malice.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DUTIES OF DRIVER OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle upon premises open to the public who
runs over, strikes, injures, maims, or kills any dog, cat, or livestock shall
immediately stop and render aid to the animal, if injured, or shall notify the
city or county, if the animal is killed. The person shall in either case make
due and diligent inquiry to determine and notify the owner of the animal.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 FINDERS OF LOST DOGS.
   (A)   Any person who finds a dog may surrender the animal to the county or
retain its possession, subject to surrender upon demand of the County or the
keeper of the dog.
   (B)   Records of reported findings shall be retained by the county and made
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.07 POISONOUS FOOD.
   No person shall knowingly place food of any description containing poisonous
or other injurious ingredients in any area reasonably likely to be accessible
to animals other than rodents.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ANIMAL REGULATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      KEEPER. Any person, who owns or is in physical possession, controls, or
otherwise has charge of an animal.
      PERMIT. Shall include conduct by the keeper of an animal, which is
intentional, deliberate, careless, inadvertent, or negligent.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for a keeper to:
      (1)   Permit a dog or livestock to become at large;
      (2)   Permit a dog to chase a vehicle or person;
      (3)   Permit a dog to scatter garbage;
      (4)   Keep a vicious animal. It shall be an affirmative defense that an
animal bites, attacks, or menaces a trespasser on the property of its keeper or
anyone wrongfully assaulting that animal or its keeper;
      (5)   Permit any animal to cause unreasonable annoyance, alarm, or noise
disturbance at any time of the day or night by repeated barking, whining,
screeching, howling, braying, or other such sounds which may be heard beyond
the boundary of the keeper’s property;
      (6)   Leave an animal unattended for more than 24 consecutive hours
without adequate food, water, shelter, care, or supervision. Shelter shall
include a structure or other means of protection from the weather and injury;
      (7)   Physically mistreat any animal either by deliberate abuse or
neglect to furnish adequate care, including medical attention;
      (8)   Permit an animal, including horses, to damage or destroy property
of persons other than the keeper;
      (9)   Permit bees to live in any space other than moveable frame hives,
fail to register the hives with the Oregon Department of Agriculture, to
abandon any colonies, or to keep diseased bees;
      (10)   Fail to promptly remove excrement or other solid waste deposited
by a any domesticated animal in any area not designated to receive the wastes,
including but not limited to public areas such as streets, sidewalks, parking
strips, public parks, and any private property owned by a person or persons
other than the property of the keeper of the animal; and/or
      (11)   Permit a dog to injure or kill a pet or domestic animal as defined
in O.R.S. 167.310(4).
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.09 STRAY ANIMALS; FEES.
   The keeper of any animal at large other than a dog or cat shall reimburse
the city or county for expenses incurred in locating, transporting, and
otherwise attending the animal.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.10 EXEMPTION FOR POLICE CANINES.
   A police canine and its law enforcement officer handler are not subject to
the restrictions or regulations contained in the relevant Washington County
Code.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a procedure
whereby dogs which have exhibited a threat to the health and safety of humans
or domestic animals are regulated to minimize or eliminate the danger to the
public. Nothing in this chapter is meant to override or to supersede Chapter
6.04 of the Washington County Code. The Code with the most strict code
requirement shall control.
   (B)   Classifications of levels of dangerousness. A dog shall be classified
as a dangerous animal based upon specific behavior exhibited by the dog. For
the purposes of division (B) through (E), behaviors establishing various levels
of potential dangerousness are as follows:
      (1)   At a Level 1 behavior, a “potentially dangerous dog”, is
established if a dog, when unprovoked:
         (a)   Whether at large or restrained, attacks and injures any domestic
animal;
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or
any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or any
dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked, to
cause injury, or to cause injury or otherwise threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (2)   At a Level 2 behavior, a “dangerous dog,” is established if a dog,
without provocation, whether at large or restrained:
         (a)   Bites or injures a human being on public or private property; or
            1.   Kills a domestic animal without provocation while the dog is
off the owner’s property; or
            2.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous because
of injury inflicted on a human, the owner having received notice of such and
the dog aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans.
         (b)   Seriously injures or kills a domestic animal.
      (3)   A dangerous dog reaches Level 3 behavior if the dog:
         (a)   Seriously injures or causes the death of a human; or
         (b)   A dog that has been classified as a Level 2 and repeats the
behavior described in division (B)(2) of this section after the owner receives
notice of the Level 2 classification; or
         (c)   Is found to engage in or is found to have been trained to engage
in exhibitions of dog fighting.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this section,
the City Manager or his or her designee, such as police officer, dog control
officer and the like shall have the discretionary authority to refrain from
classifying a dog as dangerous or potentially dangerous, even if the dog has
engaged in behaviors specified in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section, if the City Manager or his or her designee determines the behavior was
the result of the victim or domestic animal tormenting the dog or initiating
the attack without justification on the defendant’s personal or real property
with adequate fencing suitable to prevent the entry of young children designed
to prevent the dog from escaping and marked with visible signs warning people,
including children, not to trespass or to beware of dog; the victim was
involved in a criminal activity against the dog’s owner, or other extenuating
circumstances. In any case, no dog will be classified if the behavior in
question was directed against a trespasser inside any fully enclosed building
on private property with adequate fencing suitable to prevent the entry of
young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping and marked with
visible signs warning people, including children, not to trespass or to beware
of dog or in any private vehicle.
   (C)   Identification of potentially dangerous dogs; appeals; restrictions
pending appeal.
      (1)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have authority to
determine whether any dog has engaged in the behaviors specified in division
(B). This determination shall be based upon an investigation that includes
observation and testimony about the dog’s behavior, including the animal’s past
history and the owner’s control of the dog. Witnesses to the dog’s behavior
shall sign a written statement attesting to the observed behavior and agree to
provide testimony regarding the dog’s behavior if necessary.
      (2)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall give the dog’s owner
written notice by certified mail or personal service of the dog’s
classification as a potentially dangerous dog and of the additional
restrictions applicable to that dog by reason of its classification. If the
owner denies that the behavior in question occurred, the owner may appeal the
determination of the City Manager within 10 days of the date the notice was
received by the owner by certified mail or the owner was personally served.
      (3)   The Municipal Court Judge shall hold a public hearing on any appeal
from a decision by the City Manager to classify a dog as dangerous or
potentially dangerous. The owner and any other person having relevant evidence
concerning the dog’s behavior as specified in division (B) shall be allowed to
present testimony. The Municipal Court Judge shall determine whether behavior
specified in division (B) was exhibited by the dog in question. The Municipal
Court Judge shall issue an order containing his or her determination, which
shall be final.
      (4)   Once the owner has received notice of the dog's classification as a
Level 1, 2 or 3 dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, pursuant to division
(C)(2) of this section, the owner shall comply with the restrictions specified
in the notice until such time as the City Manager or his or her designee’s
decision may be reversed on appeal. Failure to comply with the specified
restrictions pending the completion of all appeals shall be a violation of this
section for which a fine can be imposed. Additionally, the City Manager or his
or her designee shall have the authority to impound the dog pending completion
of all appeals.
      (5)   If the City Manager or his or her designee finds the animal has
engaged in Level 3 behavior, the dog shall be impounded by the County Animal
Control Authority and quarantined pending the completion of an appeal. If the
City Manager or his or her designee’s decision is upheld on appeal, the dog’s
owner shall be liable for the cost of impoundment.
      (6)   The imposition of regulations pursuant to this section shall not
prevent the issuance of a citation pursuant to §
91.01.
   (D)   Regulation of dangerous dogs.
      (1)   In addition to the other requirements of §
91.01, the owner of a classified dangerous dog shall comply with the following
regulations:
         (a)   If the dog has engaged in Level 1 behavior, the owner shall
confine the dog in a secure enclosure whenever the dog is not on a leash or
inside the home of the owner. The enclosure must have adequate fencing suitable
to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from
escaping and marked with visible signs warning people, including children, not
to trespass or beware of dog. The dog must be restrained on an adequate leash
and under the control of a capable person when off the property and within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
         (b)   The owner may be required to have a policy of liability
insurance, such as home owner’s insurance, issued by the insurer qualified
under Oregon state law, or a surety bond by a surety insurer qualified under
state law, in the sum of not less than $250,000, insuring the owner for any
personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog or payable to any person
injured by the dangerous dog.
      (2)   If the dog has engaged in Level 2 behavior, the owner shall confine
the dog in a secure enclosure whenever the dog is not on a leash or inside the
home of the owner. In addition, warning signs must be posted on the property
where they are clearly legible. The dog must be muzzled and restrained on an
adequate leash and under the control of a capable person when off the property
and within the jurisdictional limits of the city.
      (3)   If a dog has engaged in Level 3 behavior, the City Manager or his
or her designee shall request from the Municipal Court Judge one or more of the
following:
         (a)   An order permanently banning the dog from the city, and
authorizing that the dog may be seized, quarantined, and euthanized if this
court order is violated;
         (b)   An order that the dog be quarantined and euthanized;
         (c)   An order prohibiting the dog’s owner from being in possession of
any dog within the city limits of the city.
      (4)   The owner or caretaker of a dog in violation of this chapter shall
be liable for all consequential costs to the city or enforcement agency, such
as Washington County Animal Control, such as kenneling, animal care, or
euthanization costs as a result of enforcement of this section.
   (E)   Banning of dangerous dogs.
      (1)   At the discretion of the City Manager, a dog with a documented
history of exhibiting Level 1 or 2 behaviors may be prohibited from entering or
residing within the city limits of the city except to be transported in a
secure vehicle while passing through the city.
      (2)   In addition, the City Manager or his or her designee is empowered
to ban a Level 2 dog for either a specified time or permanently.
   (F)   Restitution and damage.
   (1)   The owner of a dog banned under division (E) that injures a human
being shall be liable for damages such as hospitalization, and medical costs,
compensation, and other consequential damages incurred by the victim or the
city or other enforcement agency.
      (2)   The owner(s) of a dog that bites or injures any domestic animal
(including birds and husbandry animals) shall be liable for damages such as
veterinary costs.
(Ord. 2009-08-01, passed 8-11-2009)
§ 91.12 FOWL.
   (A)   For the purposes this Code of Ordinances, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DOMESTICATED FOWL. Chicken, quail, pheasants, and ducks.
   (B)   Domesticated adult female fowl are allowed in single-family residences
primarily for personal use. Domesticated fowl are allowed subject to these
conditions:
      (1)   Up to 4 adult fowl over 6 months of age may be kept on any lot with
a minimum area of 5,000 square feet. One additional adult female fowl shall be
permitted for each 2,000 square feet of additional lot area, up to a maximum of
12 female adult fowl.
      (2)   Animal waste matter shall not be allowed to accumulate. Less than 1
cubic yard of waste shall be permitted on property. Waste must be kept at least
a minimum of 10 feet from property line and behind the front building place of
the residence.
      (3)   All animal food shall be stored in rodent-proof and water-proof
containers.
      (4)   Fencing shall be designed and constructed to confine all animals to
the owner’s property.
      (5)   All structures that house fowl shall be located at least 20 feet
from all residences (except the animal owner’s).
      (6)   All structures that house fowl shall be located at least 10 feet
from any side or rear property line.
   (C)   No male fowl shall be permitted. Fowl shall not be bred.
   (D)   All portions of an enclosure for the housing or shelter for fowl are
to be located behind the front building place of dwelling.
   (E)   Eggs or meat may not be sold from residential property.
   (F)   No keeper of fowl may allow the carcass of fowl for which they are the
keeper to remain exposed on private property for longer than 1 hour after
noticing the carcass.
(Ord. 2012-07-01, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violation of the relevant provisions of the
Washington County Code shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000; and the
court in its discretion may also order destruction of the animal or animals
involved, the removal of the animal from the City of Banks, restitution for
damages, or any other remedy within the power of the court.
   (B)   Offenses committed in violation of provisions of this chapter
constitute civil violations. Except where otherwise provided in the Washington
County Code, anyone convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §
91.11 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 61.01, passed 1-8-2002; Am. Ord. 2009-08-01, passed 8-11-2009)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permits
   
92.03   Drinking in public places
   
92.04   Conducting business or soliciting charity
   
92.05   Distributing printed material
   
92.06   Structures, advertising, or decorative devices
   
92.07   Parks to be kept free of rubbish
   
92.08   Failure to remove animal waste prohibited
   
92.09   Vandalism, possession of flowers and shrubs
   
92.10   Climbing trees; lying on tables
   
92.11   Mutilation of park notices
   
92.12   Damaging park property
   
92.13   Hours park may be used; exceptions
   
92.14   Livestock prohibited
   
92.15   Fireworks and open fires prohibited
   
92.16   Unlawful to violate rules
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Banks, Oregon.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Banks, Oregon.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Banks, Oregon.
   PARK. Any publicly or privately owned real property, and the buildings,
structures, and facilities thereon, placed under the jurisdiction of the City
of Banks for park or recreational purposes and includes all land granted to the
city for the purposes.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Group activity with 25 or more people attending at a city
facility.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 92.02 PERMITS.
   Any person, family, organization, corporation or other entity that desires
the exclusive use of a park or portion of a park for any period of time shall
first obtain a permit from the City Manager. Any person, family, organization,
corporation or other entity wishing to use a park or portion of a park shall
apply for a permit on forms provided by the city at least 30 days prior to the
desired date of park use. It shall be unlawful for any person, family,
organization, corporation or other entity to conduct or participate in any
activity in a park, for which a permit is required, unless the City Manager
first issues a permit or the City Council or City Manager has granted a written
exemption from the permit requirement. The City Manager may impose any
conditions on a requestor’s use of a park that the Manager deems reasonable and
necessary to preserve and protect the park and the public interest. Such
conditions may include limitations on the scope of activities, times of
operation, numbers of people or that the requestor obtain certain types or
amounts of insurance, provide a clean-up or damage deposit or other financial
guarantee. The City Manager may deny any request or requested activities that
the City Manager deems to be unreasonably dangerous, damaging or adverse to the
public interest.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic liquor upon any
street, sidewalk, or public right-of-way or city park property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession while
upon any street, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way or city park property
any bottle, can, or other receptacle containing any alcoholic liquor which has
been opened or a seal broken or the contents of which have been partially
removed.
   (C)   This section does not apply to prohibit the consumption of alcoholic
liquor in sidewalk cafes or special events that have been issued permits.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 CONDUCTING BUSINESS OR SOLICITING CHARITY.
   It is unlawful for any person to solicit for or conduct any business, or to
sell or offer to sell any article or service, or to solicit for a charitable
contribution, in a park unless that person has been granted a park permit to do
so by the City Manager or by the City Council.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISTRIBUTING PRINTED MATERIAL.
   It is unlawful for any person in a park to distribute or offer for sale any
written, printed, or graphic material except from a sidewalk or a footpath
without the express written consent of the City Manager or the City Council.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 STRUCTURES, ADVERTISING, OR DECORATIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   On any tree, shrub, fence, railing, fountain, wall, post, vase,
statue, bridge, monument, or other structure in the park, it is unlawful for
any person to place any structure, sign, bulletin board, or advertising devise
of any kind, or to erect any post or pole or attach any notice, bill, poster,
sign, wire, rod, or cord.
   (B)   The City Manager or the City Council may, by a written permit, allow
the erection of a temporary decoration on occasions of public celebration,
holidays, or permitted special event.
   (C)   Subject to other provision in this code, nothing in the section shall
prohibit the carrying of signs in the park.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 PARKS TO BE KEPT FREE OF RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct the free use and enjoyment of any
park, enter with or place any straw, dirt, chips, paper, shavings, shells,
ashes, swill, or garbage or other rubbish or refuse or debris in or upon any
park. The foregoing prohibition shall not apply to the disposal of garbage or
refuse that result from the normal use of the park for recreational or other
lawful purposes.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 FAILURE TO REMOVE ANIMAL WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to fail to promptly remove excrement or other solid waste
deposited by a dog or other animal in any area not designated to receive the
wastes, including but not limited to public areas such as streets, sidewalks,
parking strips, public parks, and any private property owned by a person or
persons other than the property of the keeper of the dog or animal.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 VANDALISM, POSSESSION OF FLOWERS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, break, injure,
mutilate, or deface in any way any structure, monument, statute, vase,
fountain, wall, fence, railing, vehicle, bench, tree, lawn, shrub, fern, plant,
flower, or other property in any park. This would include the use of athletic
equipment (i.e. golf clubs, metal cleats, horseshoes, and the like) in such a
manner to damage property.
   (B)   It is unlawful to operate a motorized vehicle on park property without
authorization of the City Council or City Manager.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person other than an employee or officer of the
city to bring upon any of the parks or have in their possession while therein,
any tree, shrub, or plant or any newly plucked branch or leaf or tree, shrub,
or plant without the consent of the City Council or City Manager.
   (D)   It is unlawful to operate a skateboard, skates, roller blades,
bicycle, or scooter in or on any structure (i.e. gazebo and the like).
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 CLIMBING TREES; LYING ON TABLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb any tree or walk, stand, or sit upon
the monuments, vases, fountains, railing, or fences or lie on any picnic table
in any park.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 MUTILATION OF PARK NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure, deface, or destroy any notice of
the rules and regulations for the government of the parks, which shall have
been posted or permanently fixed by order or permission of the City Council or
the City Manager.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully cut, remove, deface, injure,
damage, or destroy any property in any city park or any fence, gate, or other
enclosure, or part thereof, around any city park.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 HOURS PARK MAY BE USED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful and a civil violation for any person to use, occupy, park a
vehicle, or otherwise remain upon park property between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., unless a permit for use as such times shall have been obtained from the
City Council or City Manager.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to have livestock excluding companion animals (i.e., dogs and
cats) in a park without the express written consent from the City Council or
City Manager.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2012-07-01, passed 7-10-2012; Am.
Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 FIREWORKS AND OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED.
   Fireworks and firearms are expressly prohibited in the park unless permitted
under the city, county, or state law. No open fires are allowed in the park.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 UNLAWFUL TO VIOLATE RULES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain upon park or recreation
facilities after having been notified by any duly authorized city employee to
leave the premises for breach of any rule or regulation pertaining to the use
of the facilities. It shall be unlawful for any person to continue to violate
any rule or regulation pertaining to the use of park and recreation facilities,
or to repeat the violation, after having been personally notified of the
existence of the regulation, or if the regulation is conspicuously posted at
the facility where the violation occurs.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Offenses committed in violation of provisions of this chapter constitute
civil violations. Except where otherwise prohibited, anyone convicted of a
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 100.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-08-01, passed 8-13-2013)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
93.03   Impounding hazardous vehicles
   
93.04   Towing and storage liens
   
93.05   Pre-towing investigation and notice
   
93.06   Contents of notice
   
93.07   Post-towing notice
   
93.08   Hearing
   
93.09   Decision
   
93.10   Failure to appear
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle left unoccupied and unclaimed or in such a
damaged, disabled, or dismantled condition that the vehicle is inoperable.
   HAZARDOUS VEHICLE. A vehicle left in a location or condition that
constitutes an immediate and continuous hazard to the safety of persons using
the street or alleys of the city. For example, and not for limitation, the
following are HAZARDOUS VEHICLES:
      (1)   Vehicles blocking public or private rights-of-way;
      (2)   Vehicles with leaks in gas tanks; and
      (3)   Vehicles blocking fire hydrants.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An authorized law enforcement officer of the city
or another city employee authorized to enforce this chapter.
   OWNER. A person with a claim, either individually or jointly, or ownership
of any interest, legal or equitable, in a vehicle.
   PRIVATE GARAGE. A reputable, private storage yard, garage, or other storage
place selected by a law enforcement officer.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved exclusively
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.02 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle that a law enforcement officer has reason to believe is
disabled or abandoned shall be parked or left standing on a right-of-way of a
city street or alley or on city property for a period in excess of 48 hours,
regardless of whether the vehicle is moved to another location on the public
right-of-way, street or public property. Compliance with this prohibition
requires the vehicle to be removed from the public right-of-way, street or
public property within 48 hours to avoid citation. Lack of valid and current
vehicle license tags, or valid and current vehicle registration shall be
presumptive evidence of abandonment. One or more deflated tires or any other
condition indicating the vehicle is inoperable shall be presumptive evidence of
disability.
   (B)   A vehicle so parked or left standing may be taken into custody by a
law enforcement officer and shall be held at the expense of the owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. A law enforcement officer may use
department personnel, equipment, and facilities for the removal and
preservation of the vehicle, or may hire other personnel, equipment, and
facilities for that purpose.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2022-08-03, passed 9-13-2022) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.03 IMPOUNDING HAZARDOUS VEHICLES.
   (A)   On discovering a hazardous vehicle, a law enforcement officer may
immediately cause the vehicle to be towed and impounded.
   (B)   The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for costs of towing and
storing the vehicle.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.04 TOWING AND STORAGE LIENS.
   (A)   A person, who, at the request of a law enforcement officer, takes a
vehicle into custody under the provisions of this chapter shall have a lien on
the vehicle and its contents for reasonable towing and storage charges, may
retain possession of the vehicle sold at public auction to satisfy the lien.
The lien that attaches to the vehicle and its contents shall be a possessory
chattel lien in accordance with O.R.S. 87.152 and may be foreclosed in the
manner provided in O.R.S. 87.152 through 87.212. If the appraised value of the
vehicle is $750 or less, the vehicle may be disposed of in the manner provided
in O.R.S. 819.210 through 819.260.
   (B)   If the vehicle is taken in to custody under the provisions of this
chapter and is held by the city rather than by a private garage, the vehicle
and its contents shall be disposed of in the manner provided in O.R.S. 819.210
through 819.260.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.05 PRE-TOWING INVESTIGATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer who investigates a vehicle found in
violation of §
93.02 shall:
      (1)   Make a routine investigation to discover the owner and request
removal of the vehicle;
      (2)   Failing to discover the owner by such a process, make a diligent
inquiry as to the name and address of the owner of the vehicle by examining it
for license number, identification number, make, style, and any other
information that will aid in identification of the owner. When the vehicle is
required by law to be registered with the Motor Vehicle Division, the officer
shall transmit all available information to that office with an inquiry for the
name and address of the owner;
      (3)   If the owner is identified, mail a notice to the owner at the
address shown on the Motor Vehicle Division records; and
      (4)   Whether or not the owner is identified, place a notice upon the
windshield or some other part of the vehicle where it can be easily seen.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a hazardous vehicle.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.06 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Notices sent or placed under §
93.05 shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the officer or other city employee issuing the notice;
      (2)   That is the vehicle is not removed within the legal time limit, the
vehicle will be towed and taken into custody as an abandoned vehicle;
      (3)   That any person who, at the request of a law enforcement officer,
tows an abandoned vehicle shall have a lien on the vehicle and its contents for
reasonable towing and storage charges, may retain possession of the vehicle and
its contents until the charges are paid, and may have the vehicle and its
content sold at public auction to satisfy the lien;
      (4)   That the owner of the vehicle may request a hearing on the validity
of the proposed tow and the creation and amount of the lien; and
      (5)   How and where the owner of the vehicle may get information about
the opportunity for a hearing and the location of the vehicle, if it has been
towed.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle requests a hearing before the vehicle is
taken into custody, the vehicle shall not be taken until a hearing is set and
held in accordance with §§
93.08 through
93.10.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.07 POST-TOWING NOTICE.
   (A)   After an abandoned vehicle has been taken into custody, notice shall
be provided to the owner indicating:
      (1)   The location of the vehicle;
      (2)   That a lien has arisen on the vehicle in favor of the person who
towed the vehicle;
      (3)   That the vehicle may be sold at public auction to satisfy the lien;
and
      (4)   That a hearing on the validity of the tow and on the creation and
amount of the lien may be held, if requested.
   (B)   Notice is considered given when a certified letter addressed to the
registered owner of the vehicle and a similar letter addressed to the legal
owner, if any, return receipt requested and postage prepaid, is mailed within
24 hours after the vehicle is taken into possession by or at the direction of a
law enforcement officer.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the office of the Motor Vehicles
Division, notice may be addressed to the registered owner and the legal owner,
if any, at the latest respective address of each shown by Motor Vehicles
Division records. If the vehicle is not registered, reasonable efforts shall be
made to ascertain the names and addresses of the legal owner and persons
entitled to possession of the vehicle so that notice may be mailed, if
reasonably possible, within the time period outlined in this section.
   (D)   If a hearing is desired, the owner must request a hearing within 5
days after receipt of the notice. The request may be made in person or in
writing, and failure to appear in person or to mail a letter within 5 days
after receipt of the notice shall act as a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.08 HEARING.
   (A)   On request of the legal owner or the person entitled to possession of
the vehicle, a hearing shall be held before the Municipal Judge.
   (B)   The hearing will be set and conducted within 31 calendar days. The
hearing may be set for a later date if requested by the owner or the person
entitled to possession. At the hearing, the owner may contest:
      (1)   The validity of the action of the law enforcement officer in taking
the vehicle into custody; and
      (2)   The creation and amount of the lien attached to the vehicle.
   (C)   The city shall have the burden of showing the validity of taking of
the vehicle.
   (D)   At any time prior to the requested hearing, the owner or the person
entitled to possession of the vehicle may regain possession of the vehicle by
posting security with the city in the form of cash in an amount sufficient to
cover costs of removal and storage.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2008-02-04, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 93.09 DECISION.
   (A)   If the Municipal Judge finds that the action of the law enforcement
officer in taking the vehicle into custody was proper, the Municipal Judge
shall enter an order supporting the removal.
   (B)   If the Municipal Judge finds that the action of the law enforcement
officer in taking the vehicle into custody was invalid, the Municipal Judge
shall:
      (1)   Order the vehicle released to the owner;
      (2)   Find the owner is not liable for towing or storage charges
occasioned by the taking; and
      (3)   Order the city to satisfy the towing an storage lien.
   (C)   The action of the Municipal Judge is final.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 93.10 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   If the person requesting the hearing does not appear at the schedule
hearing, the judge may enter an order supporting the removal and assessment of
towing and storage costs and apply any security posted against the costs.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 1-8-1991)
CHAPTER 94: BANKS URBAN FOREST
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Purpose
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Jurisdiction and homeowner obligation to maintain street trees
   
94.05   Reserved
   
94.06   Planting of trees and shrubs
   
94.07   Tree removal
   
94.08   Protection and maintenance of street trees
   
94.09   General provisions
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Banks Urban Forest Chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-11, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To promote and protect the human habitat values that accrue from a
healthy urban forest, the City of Banks establishes the Banks Urban Forest
Chapter. This chapter shall establish the policies, regulations, and standards
necessary to ensure that the City of Banks will continue to realize the
benefits provided by its urban forest and to realize other benefits of a
healthy urban forest, such as: reduced noise pollution, runoff, surface and
ground water contamination and improved air quality.
   (B)   The City of Banks will protect urban forests by:
      (1)   Establishing and maintaining maximum tree cover on public places in
the City of Banks;
      (2)   Maintaining the trees in a healthy and non-hazardous condition
through good arbor-cultural practices; and
      (3)   Establishing and maintaining appropriate diversity in tree species
and age classes to provide a stable and sustainable forest.
   (C)   The City of Banks will promote urban forests by:
      (1)   Suggesting the establishment and maintenance of maximum tree cover
on private land in the City of Banks;
      (2)   Conducting educational outreach in maintenance of trees in a
healthy and non-hazardous condition through good arbor-cultural practices; and
      (3)   Conducting educational outreach in maintenance of appropriate
diversity in tree species and age classes to provide a stable and sustainable
forest.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-11, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Park, Recreation and Tree Board as established under §§
32.35 through
32.40.
   CERTIFIED ARBORIST. An individual who has either obtained certification as
an arborist from the International Society of Arboriculture, or who is a member
of the American Society of Consulting Arborists.
   CITY. The City of Banks.
   CITY ARBORIST. A certified individual contracted annually by the City
Manager to consult on issues related to the city urban forest, unless a
certified arborist is on the city staff.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of Banks or his or her designee.
   CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land that is not owned by a private individual or company
that has been dedicated to the city for a public purpose. As referred to with a
road, the area of the road and area adjacent to the road in city ownership.
   CUTTING. Falling or removing a tree, or any procedure that has the natural
result of causing the death or substantial destruction of a tree. CUTTING does
not include normal trimming and pruning.
   DEAD TREE. A tree that is dead or has been damaged beyond repair or is in an
advanced state of decline (where an insufficient amount of live tissue, or
number of green leaves, limbs, or branches, exists to sustain life) and has
been determined to be such by an arborist.
   ESTABLISHED TREE FREE TO GROW. This is any wood, perennial, deciduous,
evergreen, or coniferous, plant that has a main stem or trunk, and does not
require supplemental care and watering. Plants that otherwise meet the above
description but are typically grown as shrubs are not considered trees. Some
typical examples of these are hazelnut, photinia, and laurel. A shrub is
distinguished from a tree by its multiple stems and shorter height, usually
less than 15 feet tall. A large number of plants can be either shrubs or trees,
depending on the growing conditions they experience.
   GIRDLING. The cutting or removal of the outer bark and conducting tissues of
a tree, potentially  causing the death of the tree by interrupting the
circulation of water and nutrients.
   GUILDING. A permaculture is a sustainable land use design; an approach to
designing human settlements and agricultural systems that are modeled on the
relationships found in natural ecologies. It is a contraction of permanent
(sustainable) and agriculture. A permaculture term that means a group of
plants, usually with a food-bearing tree in the middle, that support each
other, providing for each other’s needs. Typically a GUILD of trees consists of
some combination of nitrogen fixers, deep-rooted nutrient accumulators, insect
attractors, mulch makers, and ground covers. Typically, some of the plants will
be shrubs, perhaps with vines included, and some will be perennials. Annuals
are usually avoided in a GUILD, unless they self-sow.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Public rights-of-way, streets, lanes, alleys, highways, parks,
parkways, parkway strips, playgrounds, and other public grounds.
   STREET TREE INVENTORY. The bi-annual evaluation of the city’s public trees
and shrubs.
   STREET TREES. The trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines, in public places, on either side of all the
streets, avenues, or ways within the city. STREET TREES include new plantings
that are not authorized by the city.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting back of a trees limbs within the tree’s crown so
as to remove the natural canopy and disfigure the tree.
   TREE CANOPY. For the purposes of determining tree removal, it is the sum
total of the branch and leaf structure of a tree including the trunk and/or
trunks. When referred to as the CITY TREE CANOPY, it refers to the total ground
area that is shielded by tree foliage as would be determined from an aerial
view of the city.
   TREE INJURY. This is a wound to a tree resulting from any activity,
including but not limited to excessive pruning, cutting, trenching, excavating,
altering the grade, or paving/compaction within the tree protection zone of a
tree. INJURY shall include sunburn, bruising, scarring, tearing or breaking of
roots, bark, trunk branches or foliage, herbicide or poisoning, or any other
action foreseeable leading to the death or permanent damage to tree health.
   TREE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT PERMIT FEE. A fee paid for a removal and
replacement permit, as established by Council motion.
   URBAN FOREST. The areas in and around the city that contain trees and
associated plant and animal life. These areas may include single trees, small
groups of trees, or trees in large groups that would be identified commonly as
a forest or woodland.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-01, passed 10-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2013-
09-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 94.04 JURISDICTION AND HOMEOWNER OBLIGATION TO MAINTAIN STREET TREES.
   (A)   City jurisdiction. The city shall have control of the city’s urban
forests, including, but not limited to, street trees, shrubs, and other
planting now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way, easement,
or other public place in the city. The city shall have the power to plant, care
for, maintain, remove, and replace the trees, shrubs, or other plantings in the
urban forests, and to regulate the care, maintenance, removal and replacement
of these trees.
   (B)   Homeowner obligation to maintain street trees. Owners of property that
abut city rights-of-way where street trees are located within the public right-
of-way are required to maintain, care for, prune and, when necessary and
allowed by a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter, remove and replace street
trees. However, removal and replacement requires a permit issued pursuant this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-01, passed 10-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2016-
01-02, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 94.05 RESERVED.
§ 94.06 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Application to plant trees and shrubs. It shall be unlawful for any
person to plant any tree or shrub in any public street or parkway or other
public place without first securing written permission from the city.
Application for a permit shall be made to the City Recorder. The planting of
all trees and shrubs in the public right-of-way shall be performed pursuant to,
and in compliance with, the city’s adopted design standards.
   (B)   Guidelines for planting. No shrubs shall be planted to a height that
is inappropriate or hazardous to its site. Street trees shall be planted in
accordance with their height and spread within a parkway strip of all streets.
Species and size of proposed street trees shall be indicated on a landscaping
plan to be submitted as part of the tentative subdivision plan if submitted by
a subdivider. The planting of trees along street frontages within a public or
private right-of-way shall be matched to the site, but may vary depending on
landscape design factors and shall conform to the current City of Banks Street
Tree List in the city’s adopted design standards. Alternative species may be
considered on a case by case basis.
   (C)   Time for planting. Trees are to be planted during winter and early
spring. The City Arborist, or designee, may inspect the trees for correct
number planted, type, and health. The planting permit shall include watering at
least weekly through either 1 or 2 summers and more often in times of severe
heat. All permits shall determine when the trees are established, and
thereafter tree maintenance responsibilities shall be in accordance with the
Banks Municipal Code.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-01, passed 10-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2016-
01-02, passed 2-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Immediate tree removal.
      (1)   Removal of any tree located on public property or along public
streets is prohibited without first being approved by the Park, Recreation and
Tree Board, unless immediate removal or cutting is necessary for the immediate
protection of the public or private property under the following circumstances.
The following constitute grounds for issuance of a tree removal permit:
         (a)   Dying, becoming severely diseased, infested, or diseased so as
to threaten the health of other trees;
         (b)   Obstructing public rights-of-way, clear view of traffic signs by
the motoring public, or intersection sight distance so as to cause a safety
hazard;
         (c)   Interfering with or damaging public or private utilities;
         (d)   Being defined as a nuisance as per city nuisance abatement
codes; or
         (e)   Otherwise becoming a hazard to life or property in the city.
      (2)   If there is sufficient credible evidence that any of these
circumstances exist, the City Manager may administratively authorize the
immediate removal of the trees or woodlands and report same to the Board and
City Council.
   (B)   Application to remove and replace a tree. Application for
authorization to remove and replace trees or woodlands shall state the reasons
and circumstances necessitating the removal or cutting. An application that
meets the criteria for removal and replacement shall be based on the Banks
Street Tree Inventory and include a replacement tree from the current City of
Banks Street Tree List in the Banks Design Standards. The Park, Recreation and
Tree Board shall review and rule upon the request to remove and replace a tree
in a duly convened public meeting, and shall determine if sufficient
justification exist for the tree’s removal. The Board may approve, approve with
conditions or deny the tree removal request. If the tree removal request is
approved, the Board’s decision shall be in writing and include a brief
statement of the reasons for the decision, including any limitations or
conditions attached thereto, such as replacement and replanting requirements.
The written decision shall be issued to the permit applicant, and maintained in
city records as per other notices of decisions required by the Banks Municipal
Code. If approved, the permit applicant shall be responsible for all costs of
tree removal and replacement, including installation and review by the City
Arborist, and ongoing maintenance.
   (C)   Standards for approving a tree removal permit. A non-emergency request
to remove a tree that is subject to the standards of this chapter shall be
granted by the Park, Recreation and Tree Board determines there is sufficiently
credible evidence of any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The tree is diseased, damaged or dying to such an extent that a
professional arborist concludes it must be removed;
      (2)   The tree poses a significant risk of harm to people or property; or
      (3)   The tree is causing significant property damage in the form of
cracked or heaved building foundations, roofs, sidewalks, curbs underground
utilities, or other permanent structures.
   (D)   Right of appeal. The applicant or any person adversely affected or
aggrieved by a Board decision on a tree removal permit may appeal the Board’s
decision to the City Council by filing an appeal in writing with the City
Recorder within 14 days after the Board issues its written decision. The City
Council shall conduct a public evidentiary hearing on the question, based on
evidence in the record. The Council may allow additional evidence upon good
cause shown and shall decide de novo whether to approve, approve with
conditions or deny the tree removal request. The Council’s decision shall be in
writing, with a brief statement justifying the decision, and shall be the
city’s final decision.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-01, passed 10-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2016-
01-02, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 94.08 PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   Damaging trees. It shall be a violation of the provisions of this
chapter for any person to abuse, destroy, or mutilate any tree, plant, or shrub
in a public parkway strip or any other public place, or to attach or place any
rope, wire (other than one used to support a young or broken tree), sign,
poster, handbill, or other things to or on any tree growing in a public place
or to cause or permit any wire charges with electricity to be placed or
attached to any such tree, or allow any gaseous liquid or solid substance which
is harmful to the trees to come in contact with their roots, trunks, or leaves.
   (B)   During construction. During the erection, repair, alteration, or
removal of a building or structure, it is unlawful for the person in charge of
the erection, alteration, or removal to leave a tree in or upon a public right-
of-way in the vicinity of the building or structure without a good and
sufficient guard or protectors to prevent injury to the tree arising out of or
by reason or the erection, repair, alteration, or removal. Excavations and
driveways shall not be placed within 6 feet of a tree or on a public right-of-
way without written permission from the City Manager. During excavation or
construction, the person shall guard the tree within 6 feet and all building
material or other debris shall be kept at least 4 feet from any trees.
   (C)   Maintenance of street trees. Owners of property are required to
maintain and care for the street trees within the public rights-of-way abutting
their property. Maintenance and pruning shall be done in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the city’s adopted design standards. For purposes of
pruning, the property owner shall maintain at least 8 feet of clear space above
all sidewalks and at least 12 feet of clear space above the road surface.
Failure to comply with these maintenance requirements may result in a nuisance
declaration and prosecution by the city for a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-01, passed 10-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2016-
01-02, passed 2-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. Where a provision of this chapter is less restrictive
or specific than another section of this code or requirement of the city, the
provision or requirement that is more restrictive or more specific shall
govern.
   (B)   Enforcement. The City Manager is hereby charged with the
responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter and may serve notice to any
person in violation thereof or institute legal proceedings as may be required,
and the City Attorney is hereby authorized to institute appropriate proceedings
to that end.
   (C)   Violations. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or
who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to provision of the Banks
Municipal Code will be fined the cost of any abatement required by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-16-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-10-01, passed 10-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2016-
01-02, passed 2-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: DISTRESSED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
95.01   Purpose, policy and definitions
   
95.02   Registration, security and maintenance obligation
   
95.03   Registration requirement; information required; change in ownership
   
95.04   Maintenance obligations
   
95.05   Security obligations
   
95.06   Inspection requirement
   
95.07   City authorized to act; enhanced penalty
   
95.08   Appeals
§ 95.01 PURPOSE, POLICY AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted to implement the authority set forth in O.R.S.
18.995 and is intended to operate in concert with the city’s nuisance
regulations in
Chapter 90 of this Code and the city’s Civil enforcement procedures in
Chapter 37 of this Code.
   (B)   It is the stated purpose and objective of the Banks City Council that
property owners shall maintain their properties in a reasonably neat condition,
including absentee property owners that are holding residential property
subject to a foreclosure action.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
         (a)   Residential property that is both vacant and subject to either a
pending judicial execution sale under O.R.S. 18.901 et seq., or to nonjudicial
foreclosure pursuant to O.R.S. 86.740 to 86.755; or
         (b)   Residential property that is both vacant and was the subject of
either a judicial execution sale under O.R.S. 18.901 et seq., or nonjudicial
foreclosure pursuant to O.R.S. 86.740 to 86.755 where legal title is retained
by the beneficiary(ies) of a foreclosed trust deed or was otherwise transferred
to beneficiary(ies) pursuant to a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
      FORECLOSED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Residential property that an owner
obtains as a result of:
         (a)   Foreclosing a trust deed on the residential property;
         (b)   Obtaining a judgment foreclosing a lien on the residential
property; or
         (c)   Purchasing the residential property at a trustee’s sale or a
sheriff’s sale.
      LOCAL. Within 30 miles of residential property as measured along streets
or roads.
      MANAGER. The Banks City Manager or the Manager’s authorized designee.
      OWNER. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity identified as having or claiming a lien or secured interest either as a
mortgagee under a mortgage or as a trustee or beneficiary under a trust deed in
abandoned residential property or vacant foreclosed residential property.
      RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Property as defined in O.R.S. 18.901.
      VACANT. Any condition indicative of residential property being
uninhabited, unused, unmaintained or abandoned including any of the following:
         (a)   Visibly overgrown and/or dead vegetation at the property;
         (b)   Accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail;
         (c)   Visible accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris;
         (d)   Absence of typical household furnishing consistent with active
residential habitation; or
         (e)   Statements by neighbors, delivery agents, government employees
that the property is uninhabited.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.02 REGISTRATION, SECURITY AND MAINTENANCE OBLIGATION.
   All owners of abandoned residential property and vacant foreclosed
residential property are obligated to maintain their property so that it does
not constitute a nuisance or have any nuisance conditions and to continuously
comply with the registration, security, maintenance and inspection requirements
imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.03 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS; INFORMATION REQUIRED; CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Residential property shall be registered by the owner(s) thereof with
the recorder in the event:
      (1)   Of an anticipated judicial foreclosure of the property, no earlier
than the commencement of any of the actions described by O.R.S. 18.904, 18.906,
18.908 and not later than the date first set for the execution sale described
in O.R.S. 18.930.
      (2)   Of an anticipated nonjudicial foreclosure of the property done
pursuant to O.R.S. 86.740 to 86.755 not later than the date of service or
mailing of the notice of sale described in O.R.S. 86.740; or
      (3)   An owner receives written notice from the Manager that the Manager
believes the residential property is vacant.
   (B)   Each registration shall be on a form approved by the recorder and
contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The name of the trustee or mortgagee;
      (2)   The name of the beneficiary (if different) under the trust deed;
      (3)   The street/office mailing address(es) of the trustee/mortgagee and,
if there is one, the beneficiary under the trust deed;
      (4)   The name, mailing address and contact information of a local
individual or entity charged with responsibility by the trustee, mortgagee and/
or beneficiary for ensuring compliance with the obligations imposed by §§
95.04 through
95.06.
   (C)   Each registration shall be accompanied by payment of a registration
fee in an amount as set by Council resolution.
   (D)   The City Recorder shall maintain a current list of registered
residential properties within the city limits.
   (E)   In the event ownership of a registered residential property changes,
the owner shall send notice of the ownership change to the City Recorder not
later than 30 days after the change.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.04 MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   The owner of residential property determined to be or registered as
abandoned residential property or vacant foreclosed residential property shall
cause the property to be maintained in a generally kempt condition similar to
that found on surrounding occupied residential property, free of uncut or
rampant weeds, dead vegetation, graffiti, vehicles, tires, junk, trash,
accumulated newspapers, discarded personal items and other items or conditions
that give the appearance the property is vacant or abandoned.
   (B)   In the event there are outdoor pools or spas at an abandoned
residential property or vacant residential property, the owner shall keep them
in working order or drain them and keep them dry so that mosquitos cannot
breed.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.05 SECURITY OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   The owner of residential property determined to be or registered as
abandoned residential property or vacant foreclosed residential property shall
cause the property to be secured (including closure and locking of windows,
doors, gates and other opening that could allow access to the dwelling) and
thereafter maintain the property and dwelling so that it cannot be accessed by
unauthorized people.
   (B)   Residential property subject to division (A) of this section shall be
continuously posted with a notice (printed and legible with a font size no less
than 12 point) listing the name and contact information of the local individual
or entity identified in the city’s registration form along with the following
statements completed with the appropriate identification and information:
   “THIS PROPERTY MANAGED BY                                .”
   “TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS CALL                       .”
   The posting shall be placed either on the interior of the dwelling or
secured to the exterior of the dwelling. Exterior posting must be constructed
of and printed on weather resistant materials.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.06 INSPECTION REQUIREMENT.
   The local individual or entity identified in the registration required by §
95.03 shall inspect the residential property on not less than once per month to
ensure that the requirements of §§
95.04 and
95.05 are met.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.07 CITY AUTHORIZED TO ACT; ENHANCED PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event the Manager believes an owner has failed to meet the
registration, maintenance, security or inspection obligations of this chapter,
the Manager shall send notice of that failure to the owner at the address
listed on the tax rolls of the county maintained consistent with O.R.S. 311.560
or at such other address as may be known to the Manager. The notice shall set
out the nature of the failure(s) to be corrected and shall give the owner not
less than 14 working days from the date of the notice to correct them. In the
event the owner fails to remedy the deficiencies within the time stated in the
notice (or make, in the view of the Manager, adequate arrangements otherwise)
the city is hereby authorized to enter the property and cause the failures to
be corrected, charging the costs thereof to the property owner and recording
those charges as a lien against the property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the city may enforce the terms of this
chapter as provided in
Chapter 37 of this Code (Civil Enforcement) or in state law.
   (C)   If the Manager believes an owner’s failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter is willful or purposeful, the Manager may seek and
obtain an enhanced penalty of up to $1,000 per day in addition to the general
penalty provided in §
37.08 of this Code.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 95.08 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event an owner is notified that residential property under that
person’s ownership is subject to the terms of this chapter but believes the
property should not be, that person may appeal the Manager’s determination of
ownership and responsibility.
   (B)   Any appeal by an owner shall be:
      (1)   In writing;
      (2)   Received by the Manager within 10 working days of the date the
owner was notified that their residential property was subject to this chapter;
and
      (3)   Setting out in summary form the basis for their belief that their
residential property should not be subject to this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an appeal, the Manager shall review the matter and
provide the owner an opportunity to give additional information if the Manager
believes that additional information could better inform the decision on
whether to affirm, deny or modify the notification. After the owner has been
given the opportunity to provide additional information, the Manager shall
within 10 days of the receipt of that information affirm, deny or modify the
notification as to the applicability of this chapter to the residential
property in writing. The Manager’s decision is final subject only to judicial
review pursuant to O.R.S. 34.010 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-10-01, passed 11-11-2014)
CHAPTER 96: REGULATION OF THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
96.01   Policy and purpose of right-of-way regulation
   
96.02   Right-of-way permit required
   
96.03   Authority to condition use of the right-of-way
   
96.04   Design standards for permanent facilities in the right-of-way
   
96.05   Obligations on the city
   
96.06   Exemptions to the right-of-way permit requirement
   
96.07   Right-of-way permit denial or revocation and appeal
   
96.08   Violations
§ 96.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATION.
   (A)   The City of Banks, in furtherance of the public health, safety and
welfare, hereby declares it a matter of public concern and importance to
maintain the safety, utility and structural integrity of all public rights-of-
way within the city.
   (B)   The city recognizes that public rights-of-way are obtained, dedicated,
maintained and used for the movement of goods and people and the placement of
public facilities and utilities that are compatible with those uses. The city
declares it a matter of public concern that the public rights-of-way within its
borders be protected and that use of the rights-of-way be regulated so as to
protect these important assets for these public purposes.
   (C)   Toward this end, the city declares that the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare requires certain regulations on the use of, and uses
within, the public right-of-way so as to protect and maintain these public
purposes.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, “right-of-way” includes all publicly
dedicated streets, roads, alleys, highways and bike paths owned, held or
maintained by the City of Banks, Washington County or the State of Oregon, with
the understanding that, if entities other than the City of Banks have
regulatory or permitting authority over such a right-of-way, any permittee
hereunder must obtain any permit or authorization required by any other
governmental entity for the proposed activity.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 96.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any individual, corporation, organization, partnership or similar
entity shall apply for and obtain a city-issued right-of-way permit before
using any public right-of-way, including streets, roads, alleys, bridges, bike
lanes and pedestrian paths, within the city limits for any of the following
uses:
      (1)    Transport of goods or passage of one or more vehicles longer than
40 feet singly or as a single unit in combination or 60 feet total for the
combination of vehicles including length of load or otherwise oversize
according to O.R.S. 818.010.
      (2)   Transport of goods or passage of one or more vehicles heavier than
34,000 pounds gross vehicle weight unless weight is mitigated by use of
additional axles as prescribed by O.R.S. 818.080 or a route is otherwise
identified as weight limited.
      (3)   Placement of underground, above ground or overhead wires, pipes,
fiber optic lines, poles, transmitters, receivers, antennas, equipment cabinets
or other equipment within, over or under the public right-of-way, or the
extension, expansion or replacement of any of the foregoing facilities in the
public right-of-way. These activities may also require a franchise with the
City of Banks for long-term occupation and use of the public rights-of-way.
      (4)   Obstruction of the normal passage of goods and people over the
public right-of-way for any period of time by occupying the right-of-way with a
stationary object or passage of pedestrians or vehicle(s), whether motorized or
non-motorized, moving slower than the posted speed. This includes parades,
bicycle or foot races, fairs, festivals and the like, as well as survey work
within the right-of-way that may obstruct or slow traffic. These activities may
also require a land use or special use permit depending upon the specific
proposal.
      (5)   Any pavement or concrete cutting, boring, excavation, digging,
construction, building or physical disturbance of, or within, the right-of-way.
   (B)   Any entity required by this ordinance to obtain a right-of-way permit
shall apply using forms provided by the city and, as applicable, provide the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number and other contact information of
the person or entity responsible for the permitted use and the same contact
information for the person who will be on-site in the city when the requested
use is occurring
      (2)   Detailed description of the use or project proposed, including
nature of the use, size, weight, number of vehicles, bicycles, people/
pedestrians, the reason for the construction or excavation within the right-of-
way, and the like.
      (3)   Engineered drawings of the underground, above ground or overhead
wires, pipes, fiber optic lines, poles, transmitters, receivers, antennas,
equipment cabinets or other equipment within, over or under the public right-
of-way, or the extension, expansion or replacement of any of the foregoing
facilities in the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Specific dates, times, frequency and locations (specific portions
of identified rights-of-way) for which the permit is sought and during which
the right-of-way will be used, disturbed or affected.
      (5)   Detailed description of the anticipated impact of the proposed use,
including poles and other structures that will need to be moved, reconstructed,
reinforced and/or repaired. This should also include a description of the
traffic, pedestrian and bicycle safety impacts of the proposed use. For
construction or excavation, this includes the exact location, size of
excavation, depth, etc., and a detailed description of the utilities that may
be affected.
      (6)   A detailed description of the mitigation measures, including safety
measures proposed to maintain public safety, and measures to protect and repair
the structural integrity of the right-of-way.
      (7)   Any other relevant information related to the unique nature of the
proposed use or otherwise required by the city for a full evaluation of the
proposed use and its impact of the public right-of-way. The city may rely on
O.R.S. 818.105 and 818.220 as a framework for identifying relevant information
required for a complete application.
   (C)   All applicants for a Right-of-way Permit may be required to reimburse
the city for all of the city’s reasonable costs incurred in evaluating the
applicant’s proposal, impacts and permit/condition compliance, including review
by the City Engineer, City Planner, City Attorney and any other outside
consultant.
   (D)   Approval of a right-of-way permit, including conditions designed to
protect the long-term function, safety and structural integrity of the right-
of-way and all utility infrastructure within the right-of-way, shall not be
unreasonably withheld. However, where protection of the function, safety and
structural integrity of the right-of-way or utility infrastructure within the
right-of-way cannot be assured through the imposition of conditions, the permit
shall be denied.
   (E)   All right-of-way permit applications shall be reviewed and decided in
writing by the city manager in consultation with the city planner, city
engineer, and any affected state, county or federal agencies. The city manager
may refer any right-of-way permit application to the city council for review
and decision.
   (F)   Any decision on a right-of-way permit by the city manager is final
unless appealed to the city council. A right-of-way permit decision may be
appealed to the city council by requesting council review within 14 days of
when the city manager’s decision is reduced to writing and signed. Any decision
by the city council on a right-of-way permit is final. The city’s decision on a
right-of-way permit is not a “land use decision” or “limited land use decision”
under O.R.S. Chapter 197, nor is it a “permit” under O.R.S. Chapter 227.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 96.03 AUTHORITY TO CONDITION USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any right-of-way permit approved by the city shall include reasonable
conditions designed to protect the long-term function, safety and structural
integrity of the right-of-way, city facilities and utilities within the right-
of-way and near-by affected land, and preservation of aesthetic/scenic street
views including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Traffic safety measures, flaggers, warning signs, lights and any
other measure deemed necessary to protect public safety including limits to
time of day or season to limit impacts on pedestrians, vehicular access in the
school zone, time-sensitive commerce during harvest, and the like.
      (2)   Reconstruction, rehabilitation, reinforcement and/or repair of any
physical element or support structure of, in or near the public right-of-way
that may be affected or need to be altered to accommodate the use.
      (3)   Measures necessary to maintain property operation and integrity of
utilities within the right-of-way before, during and after the applicant’s use
of the right-of-way.
      (4)   The posting of a financial guarantee, in a form approved by the
city attorney in an amount approved by the city engineer, sufficient to
reconstruct, rehabilitate or repair any physical element or support structure
in or near the public right-of-way following the use.
      (5)   Indemnification of the City of Banks for any claim arising from
property damage, injury or death resulting from any activity by the permittee.
      (6)   The temporary movement of poles, utility lines or other existing
structures or facilities within or near the public right-of-way that may be
affected by the proposed use.
      (7)   A reduction in the height, profile or other visible aspect of any
facility or fixture proposed for the public right-of-way to preserve the
aesthetic views or design standards of city streets, especially Main Street.
      (8)   Any other condition or requirement deemed reasonably necessary to
protect the long-term function, safety and structural integrity of the right-
of-way and utilities within the right-of-way.
   (B)   As a condition of permit approval, the city may require an applicant
to enter a legally binding and enforceable road use agreement that imposes
specific requirements and obligations on the permittee to ensure compliance
with the permit and to achieve the objectives of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditions may take the form of conditions required before the use of
the public right-of-way can begin, conditions regulating the proposed use of
the right-of-way, and/or conditions to be performed following the use.
Conditions shall be performed to the satisfaction of the city engineer or other
appropriate responsible city official and shall be completed at the expense of
the permit holder. Failure to completely and properly fulfill all conditions of
a right-of-way permit may result in cancellation of the permit, may be grounds
for revocation of all other Right-of-way Permits or denial of future
applications, and may be grounds for initiation of civil or criminal
enforcement actions in state or municipal court.
   (D)   The city may issue or amend from time to time seasonal weight
restrictions on some city streets as deemed necessary by the city engineer. The
city will consult and coordinate with Washington County in these regulations.
   (E)   In addition to any other available remedy, the city may enforce
requirements of a right-of-way permit in municipal court or Washington County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 96.04 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   All permanent facilities proposed to be erected, constructed or expanded
within the public right-of-way shall be subject to the following basic
requirements.
   (A)   No permanent fixtures shall be placed in the public right-of-way that
obstruct vehicle traffic lanes, obstruct sight distance at intersections and
driveways, or reduce the usable width of the sidewalk to less than four feet.
   (B)   Fixtures or placements that obstruct or eliminate one or more on-
street parking spaces may be allowed under special circumstances where there is
a net benefit to the public, such as dedication of on-street parking spaces to
permanent and protected bicycle parking or use by a café or restaurant for
outside seating.
   (C)   No new permanent fixtures or facilities shall be allowed in the public
right-of-way without an engineer’s certification that the fixture or facility
will create or exacerbate a traffic safety hazard, pose an unsafe obstruction
in the traffic clear area, or safety hazard to vehicles that might leave the
travel lane.
   (D)   No permanent fixtures, pole extensions or other facilities in the
public right-of-way shall be taller than 35 feet.
   (E)   Compliance with all applicable provisions of the city’s Public Works
Design Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 96.05 OBLIGATIONS ON THE CITY.
   (A)   In administering this ordinance and exercising regulatory control over
the public rights-of-way within its boundaries, the city is not obligated to
maintain or repair the public right-of-way or otherwise assume jurisdiction or
other obligations that it has not otherwise elected to assume.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes the city to approve a proposed use
on private property or land outside of the public right-of-way. A permit
applicant is required to seek any additional approvals or permission from
private property owners and other affected governmental entities. If excavation
is proposed, the applicants shall contact the one-call utility line locate
before beginning work. Permit applicants may also be required to obtain a
franchise from the city for long-term use of the public right-of-way. Permit
applicants may also be required to obtain land use approval, a construction
permit, or a special events permit for the requested activity.
   (C)   Duty of the abutting owner for sidewalk maintenance and repair. It
shall be the duty of all persons owning lots or lands which have abutting
sidewalks to maintain, keep and repair those sidewalks in a safe condition, to
keep them free of accumulated ice, snow and leaves, and to not permit them to
become or remaining in a dangerous or unsafe condition. Any owner of lots or
lands who neglects to promptly comply with the provisions of this section shall
be liable to anyone injured by such negligence. Any property owner who neglects
or otherwise fails to perform any duty required by this section and another
person is injured as a result, the property owner shall reimburse the city for
all damages it has been compelled to pay in such case, and those payments may
be enforced in any court having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-06-02, passed 7-13-2017)
§ 96.06 EXEMPTIONS TO THE RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   In administering this ordinance and exercising regulatory control over the
public right-of-way, the city manager may exempt the following activities from
the permit requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   The seasonal transportation of agricultural products.
   (B)   Work done by or for the City of Banks for a specific city project.
   (C)   Work necessary to respond to an isolated emergency situation,
affecting the public health, safety and welfare, that requires an expedited
process.
   (D)   Truck transportation for work done on a project within the city limits
on private or public property that requires approval by the city using another
review process, such as a land use approval. Any such permit review process
shall include consideration of the right-of-way and transportation safety
issues set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 96.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT DENIAL OR REVOCATION AND APPEAL.
   The following procedures shall govern the denial or revocation of a right-
of-way permit and an applicant’s remedies therefrom.
   (A)   Grounds for denial or revocation. A right-of-way permit may be revoked
or denied if the permit holder:
      (1)   Is charged with and fails to contest or is conclusively determined
to be in violation of, two or more provisions of this chapter in a 12-month
period.
      (2)   Operates a business in a way that creates or constitutes a
nuisance; and/or
      (3)   Fails to supply the information required on the city’s business
license form or submits misleading or false information, or submitted
misleading or false information on a previous application.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   If the city determines that grounds for revocation of a right-of-
way permit exist, a notice of revocation will be issued in writing and
delivered to the permit holder in a manner reasonably calculated to give
notice, including delivery by United States first-class mail, postage prepaid
to the address provided on the license application form.
      (2)   The revocation is effective 14 calendar days after issuance of the
notice unless the licensee files a written appeal with the city, after which
revocation would be effective if the licensee fails to appear at the appeal
hearing.
      (3)   Denial of a right-of-way permit is effective upon issuance and may
be appealed within 14 days of issuance.
   (C)   Appeal. In the event of a right-of-way permit revocation or denial,
the following appeal procedures shall apply:
      (1)   The permitee or applicant shall initiate the appeal by filing a
written notice appeal with the city manager no later than 14 calendar days
after issuance of the notice of revocation or denial.
      (2)   Upon filing of an appeal, the city manager will schedule a public
hearing before the City Council to decide the appeal.
      (3)   The City Council has the authority to administer oaths, take the
testimony of witnesses and prescribe procedures for conducting a hearing in
general conformity with O.R.S. Chapter 183.
      (4)   The appealing party or any other person the City Council deems to
have relevant evidence concerning the existence of grounds for revocation will
be allowed to present testimony and documentary evidence at the hearing.
      (5)   After considering the arguments and evidence, the City Council will
determine whether the right-of-way permit should be revoked or denied, as
applicable. The City Council’s decision is the city’s final decision in the
matter.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
§ 96.08 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who fails to obtain a right-of-way permit when one is required by
this chapter or violates any permit condition, requirement of this chapter or
any other provision of the Banks Code of Ordinances shall be subject to civil
citation pursuant to Chapter 37 (Civil Enforcement) of the Banks Code of
Ordinances in addition to any other means of enforcement available to the city
before any court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction. Upon a
determination that a person has violated any requirement or prohibition of this
chapter, that person shall be subject to a fine of up $500 per violation. Each
day of violation, event or occurrence may be deemed a separate citable and
punishable offense.
(Ord. 2016-08-01, passed 9-13-2016)
TITLE X: FRANCHISES
Chapter
   
100.   PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
   
101.   NORTHWEST NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
   
102.   COMCAST FRANCHISE
   
103.   ZIPLY FIBER NORTHWEST FRANCHISE
   
104.   SWATCO FRANCHISE
CHAPTER 100: PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
Section
   
100.01   Nature and term of franchise
   
100.02   Term and effective date
   
100.03   Definitions
   
100.04   Construction
   
100.05   Supplying maps
   
100.06   Excavation
   
100.07   Restoration after excavation
   
100.08   Relocation
   
100.09   Public ROW vacation
   
100.10   City public works and improvements
   
100.11   Use of grantee facilities
   
100.12   Payment for use of public ROW
   
100.13   Audit
   
100.14   Termination and remedies
   
100.15   Assignment of franchise
   
100.16   Removal of facilities
   
100.17   Nondiscrimination
   
100.18   Indemnification
   
100.19   Insurance
   
100.20   Damage to facilities
   
100.21   Limitation on privileges
   
100.22   Franchise not exclusive
   
100.23   Remedies and penalties not exclusive
   
100.24   Severability clause
   
100.25   Acceptance
   
100.26   Notice
   
100.27   Emergency declaration
§ 100.01 NATURE AND TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The city hereby grants to the grantee and its successors and assigns,
subject to the terms and conditions in this franchise, a nonexclusive franchise
to erect, construct, repair, maintain, upgrade and operate an electric light
and power system within the city as it now exists or may be extended in the
future, including related communication equipment and grantee facilities (as
defined below). This franchise includes the privilege to install, repair,
maintain, upgrade and operate facilities necessary for the operation of
grantee’s electric light and power system (as defined below) upon, over, along,
and across the surface of and the space above and below the streets, alleys,
roads, highways, sidewalks, bridges, and other public ways over which the city
has jurisdiction (collectively, “public ROW”), as well as public utility
easements (“PUEs”) on third party property as shown on recorded final plats,
and which will be managed by the city thereafter, for the provision of public
utility services within the city as grantee’s electric light and power system
now exists or is extended or upgraded in the future. Nothing in this franchise
limits the city from granting others the right to carry on activities similar
to, or different from the ones described in this franchise. The rights granted
herein do not include the right to build or site electric generating facilities
in the public ROW.
   (B)   All grantee facilities in possession of the grantee currently or
during the term (as defined in §
100.02(B)) that are located within the public ROW are covered by this franchise
and the location and placement thereof is hereby approved for the purposes of
this franchise. The city may require relocation of grantee facilities as
further specified in §
100.08.
   (C)   This franchise also includes the privilege to repair, maintain,
upgrade and operate grantee facilities located in city park property that are
existing as of the effective date of this franchise. Installation of grantee
facilities in city park property on or after the effective date of this
franchise, and repairing, maintaining, upgrading and operating such after-
installed grantee facilities, shall be subject to the city’s permitting
process, including but not limited to grantee obtaining any requisite
easements. With respect to grantee facilities located in city park property
existing as of the effective date of this franchise, and grantee facilities
installed in city park property on or after the effective date of this
franchise in accordance with the city permitting process, city park property
shall be treated the same as the public ROW for purposes of this franchise.
   (D)   Grantee may provide telecommunications services as defined in O.R.S.
759.005 as it may be amended from time to time via grantee’s electric light and
power system if it obtains all necessary and applicable authorizations from the
OPUC regarding the provision of telecommunications service to the public and
obtains any necessary, lawful and applicable authorization from the city for
use of the public ROW for such provision, including entering into a separate
franchise with the city.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.02 TERM AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Effective date. The effective date of this franchise shall be March
10, 2010, or the date on which the Mayor signs the ordinance adopting this
franchise, whichever is later.
   (B)   Duration of franchise. The term of this franchise, and all rights and
obligations pertaining thereto, shall be 10 years from the effective date of
the franchise (“term”) unless renegotiated or terminated as provided herein.
The term shall automatically renew for 2 five-year terms, unless either party
provides the other party 180 days advanced written notice of its desire not to
renew this franchise prior to the expiration of the initial term or renewal
term.
   (C)   Charter and general ordinances to apply. To the extent authorized by
law, this franchise is subject to the Charter of the City of Banks and general
ordinance provisions passed pursuant thereto, including those involving
underground utilities in subdivisions or partitions, and state statutes and
regulations existing during the term. Nothing in this franchise shall be deemed
to waive the requirements of the various codes and ordinances of the city
regarding permits, fees to be paid that are generally applicable to other
similar businesses operating within the city, or the manner of construction.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Captions. Throughout this franchise, captions to sections are intended
solely to facilitate reading and to reference the provisions of this franchise.
The captions shall not affect the meaning and interpretation of this franchise.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this franchise, the following terms,
phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings given below unless the
context indicates otherwise. When not inconsistent with the context, words used
in the present tense include the future tense, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      (1)   CITY means the City of Banks, Oregon, a municipal corporation, and
all of the territory within its corporate boundaries, as such may change from
time to time.
      (2)   CITY COUNCIL means the Council of the city.
      (3)   CITY ENGINEER means the City Engineer of the city.
      (4)   CITY MANAGER means the City Manager of the city.
      (5)   CITY RECORDER means the Recorder of the city.
      (6)   COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT means wires, fiber, antennas, and related
equipment to deliver business and energy information within PGE’s information
network, and to monitor and control facilities and equipment, in order to
ensure operational performance, including but not limited to the receipt and
delivery of data from and to AMI meters.
      (7)   EMERGENCY means a situation involving:
         (a)   An unscheduled outage affecting one or more current customers;
or
         (b)   Danger to public safety that must be addressed within 24 hours
in order to protect the public.
      EMERGENCY also includes situations where the failure of grantee to act
would result in (a) or (b) within 24 hours.
      (8)    FRANCHISE means this franchise agreement as fully executed by the
city and the grantee and adopted by the City Council pursuant to Ordinance No.
2010.
      (9)   GRANTEE means Portland General Electric Company, an Oregon
corporation.
      (10)   GRANTEE FACILITY means any tangible component of grantee’s
electric light and power system, including but not limited to any poles, guy
wires, anchors, wire, fixtures, equipment, conduit, circuits, vaults, switch
cabinets, transformers, secondary junction cabinets, antennas, communication
equipment and other property necessary or convenient to supply electric light
and power by the grantee within the city.
      (11)   GRANTEE’S ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER SYSTEM means all real property
and grantee facilities used by the grantee in the transmission and distribution
of its services that are located inside the boundaries of the city.
      (12)   GROSS REVENUES shall be deemed to include any and all revenues
derived by the grantee within the city from grantee’s electric light and power
system, and includes, but is not limited to, the sale of and use of electricity
and electric service, and the use, rental, or lease of grantee facilities after
adjustment for the net write-off of uncollectible accounts. Gross revenues do
not include proceeds from the sale of bonds, mortgages or other evidence of
indebtedness, securities or stocks, or sales at wholesale by one public utility
to another of electrical energy when the utility purchasing such electrical
energy is not the ultimate consumer. Gross revenues also do not include revenue
from joint pole use. For purposes of this franchise, revenue from joint pole
use includes any revenue collected by the grantee from other franchisees,
permit holders, or licensees of the city for the right to attach wires, cable
or other facilities or equipment to the grantee’s poles or place them in the
grantee’s conduits.
      (13)    NEW DEVELOPMENT means construction work that goes through the
city planning process.
      (14)   NESC means the National Electrical Safety Code.
      (15)   OPUC means the Oregon Public Utility Commission.
      (16)   PERMIT means a formal written request submitted to the city on the
applicable city form describing the requested project.
      (17)   PERSON means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership,
association, corporation, Cooperative, People’s Utility District, or other form
of organization authorized to do business in the State of Oregon, and includes
any natural person.
      (18)    PUBLIC ROW shall have the meaning described in §
100.01(A).
      (19)   PUE shall have the meaning described in §
100.01(A).
      (20)   TERM shall have the meaning described in §
100.02.
      (21) YEAR, ANNUAL, or ANNUALLY means the period consisting of a full
calendar year, beginning January 1 and ending December 31, unless otherwise
provided in this franchise.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.04 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction. Subject to the NESC, grantee’s electric light and power
system shall be constructed and maintained in such manner as not to interfere
with sewers, water pipes, or any other property of the city, or with any other
pipes, wires, conduits or other facilities that may have been laid in the
public ROW by or under the city’s authority. The grantee shall comply with all
applicable published city permitting requirements prior to commencing any
construction in the public ROW. The grantee and the city shall work together
during any design process affecting the public ROW in accordance with O.R.S.
758.025 to establish suitable locations for grantee’s facilities and, to the
extent possible, with a goal of trying to minimize cost to both parties.
Assuming there is sufficient space in the public ROW that meets the grantee’s
construction standards as provided to the OPUC, NESC requirements and generally
applicable standards published by the city, all poles shall be placed between
the sidewalk and the edge of the public ROW unless another location is approved
by the City Engineer. For any land use development in the city requiring the
grantee’s services, the city shall notify the grantee of such pending land use
development and the grantee shall notify the city of the grantee’s construction
standards that are provided to the OPUC and NESC requirements that are
applicable to the pending land use development. The city shall impose a
condition on its land use development approval that the developer either:
      (1)   Provide a sufficient location in the public ROW located in the land
use development for grantee facilities that meet the grantee’s applicable
construction standards and NESC requirements, or
      (2)   Obtain an easement for grantee facilities that meet the grantee’s
applicable construction standards and NESC requirements.
   (B)   Acquisition. Subsequent to the effective date of this franchise, upon
the grantee’s acquisition of additional grantee facilities in the public ROW,
or upon any addition or annexation to the city of any area in which the grantee
retains grantee facilities in the public ROW of such addition or annexation,
the grantee shall submit to the city a statement describing all grantee
facilities involved, whether authorized by a franchise agreement or upon any
other form of prior right, together with a map, as described in §
100.05, specifying the location of all such grantee facilities. Such grantee
facilities shall immediately be subject to the terms of this franchise.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. In the event emergency repairs to grantee
facilities are necessary, the grantee shall as soon as reasonably possible
(i.e., within 24 hours during the week or, if made on the weekend, on the
following Monday after the emergency repairs) notify the city of the need for
such repairs. The grantee may immediately initiate such emergency repairs and,
if permits are required by the city, apply for appropriate permits the next
business day or as soon as reasonably possible following discovery of the
emergency. In the event excavation is necessary in conjunction with the
repairs, §
100.06 shall also apply.
   (D)   Reasonable care. All work completed by the grantee within the public
ROW shall be conducted with reasonable care and with the goal of minimizing the
risk to those using the public ROW and to minimize the risk of damage to public
and third party property. All work shall be performed in accordance with all
applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to the NESC. Any
work completed by the grantee within the public ROW may be inspected by the
city to determine whether it has been placed in its approved location according
to the grantee’s permit issued by the city. If emergency work has been
completed by the grantee in the public ROW and the city determines such work
was not completed in a city approved location, the city shall notify the
grantee and provide the grantee with 60 days after the emergency has passed to
re-perform the work in a city approved location, subject to the NESC.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.05 SUPPLYING MAPS.
   The grantee shall maintain maps and data pertaining to the location of
grantee facilities on file at its corporate offices or at an office in Oregon.
The city may inspect the maps (excluding the grantee’s proprietary information)
at any time during the grantee’s business hours upon 24 hours prior notice.
Upon request of the city and without charge, the grantee shall furnish current
maps to the city by electronic data in read-only format showing the general
location of grantee facilities, excluding the grantee’s proprietary
information. Unless required by law, the city will not sell or provide the
grantee’s prepared maps or data to third parties without written permission
from the grantee. Upon request of the grantee, the city will make available to
the grantee a nominal number of relevant city prepared maps or data in the
format existing in the city records at the time at no charge to the grantee.
Additional requests for maps or data, or requests for maps or data in a format
existing in the city records at the time will be satisfied at the current rate
charged by the city for such services, except where as part of the permitting
process the city has required that the grantee provide maps that include the
location of facilities owned or under the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.06 EXCAVATION.
   Subject to §§
100.04 and
100.07, and after obtaining any permits required by the city, as well as
complying with O.R.S. 757.542 et seq. (Oregon Utility Notification Center) as
they may be amended from time to time, the grantee may make all necessary
excavations within the public ROW for the purpose of installing, repairing,
upgrading or maintaining grantee facilities, except that in the case of an
emergency, and if allowed under applicable Washington County ordinances, then
no permit shall be required prior to excavation. Should there be a direct
conflict between any terms or conditions stated in a permit granted by the city
and the terms of this franchise, the terms of this franchise shall control. All
excavations made by the grantee in the public ROW shall be properly safeguarded
for the prevention of accidents. All of the grantee’s work under this section
shall be completed in strict compliance with all applicable rules, regulations
and ordinances of the city, and, if applicable, those of Washington County and
the Oregon Department of Transportation. Should a customer of the grantee be
required, pursuant to the grantee’s tariff on file with the OPUC, to make
excavations that are located in the public ROW, the city agrees that the
grantee shall not be responsible or liable for any failure by such customer to
comply with any applicable rules, regulations, ordinances of the city and/or
with city standards.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.07 RESTORATION AFTER EXCAVATION.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this section, the grantee shall repair
any damage to the affected area, including third party property, caused by
grantee’s excavation of the public ROW and restore the surface of the public
ROW in the area disturbed by any excavation by the grantee to at least the same
condition that it was in prior to excavation and in accordance with city
standards; provided, however, the grantee shall not, at the grantee’s expense,
be required to pave a gravel street that was gravel prior to the excavation,
install sidewalk panels or curbs where sidewalk panels or curbs did not exist
prior to the excavation, or construct additional improvements in the public ROW
that did not exist prior to the excavation. If the grantee fails to restore the
public ROW to at least the same condition that it was in prior to the
excavation and in accordance with city standards subject to the preceding
sentence, the city shall give the grantee written notice and provide the
grantee a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 days, to restore the
public ROW. If the work of the grantee creates a public safety hazard as
determined by the City Engineer, the grantee may be required to repair or
restore the public ROW within 24 hours notice from the city, or such time as
agreed between the City Engineer and the grantee, taking into consideration
weather and other relevant factors. Should the grantee fail to make such
repairs or restorations within the aforementioned time frames, the city may,
after providing notice to the grantee and a reasonable opportunity to cure,
refill or repave any opening made by the grantee in the public ROW and the
expense thereof shall be paid by the grantee. The city reserves the right,
after providing notice to the grantee, to remove or repair any work completed
by the grantee, which, in the determination of the City Engineer is inadequate,
using a qualified contractor in accordance with applicable state and federal
safety laws and regulations, and grantee’s construction standards as provided
to the OPUC. The cost thereof, including the cost of inspection and
supervision, shall be paid by the grantee. In the event that the grantee’s work
is coordinated with other construction work in the public ROW, the City
Engineer may excuse the grantee from restoring the surface of the public ROW,
providing that as part of the coordinated work, the public ROW is restored to
good order and condition.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.08 RELOCATION.
   (A)   Permanent relocation required by city.  
      (1)   This division (A) covers permanent relocation of overhead grantee
facilities that will remain overhead, and underground grantee facilities that
will remain underground. The city shall have the right to require the grantee
to change the location of grantee’s electric light and power system located in
the public ROW when it is necessary or convenient in the interest of the
public, and, unless otherwise agreed, the expenses thereof shall be paid by the
grantee. The foregoing sentence shall apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The project or improvement in the public ROW necessitating the
change in the location of grantee facilities will be owned by the city; or
         (b)   The majority of the funding for the project or improvement comes
from city, county, state, or federal government sources.
      (2)   The city agrees to provide a suitable location in the public ROW,
as mutually agreed, for grantee facilities that meets the grantee’s
construction standards as provided to the OPUC, NESC requirements and generally
applicable standards published by the city to accommodate and permit upgrade of
grantee facilities in order to maintain sufficient service.
      (3)   If a suitable location is not available in the public ROW for
grantee facilities that meets the grantee’s construction standards as provided
to the OPUC, NESC requirements and generally applicable standards published by
the city, the city agrees it will:
         (a)   For relocations accompanying new development, compel a public
ROW dedication or the establishment of a PUE from an applicant seeking land use
approval from the city; or
         (b)   For relocations not accompanying new development, obtain
sufficient public ROW or easements from private property owners to accommodate
grantee facilities in order to maintain service and permit upgrades to grantee
facilities.
      (4)   For relocations accompanying new development, if city fails to
compel a public ROW dedication or the establishment of a PUE, city is
responsible for obtaining the necessary public ROW or easement to accommodate
grantee facilities at no cost to the grantee. Nothing in this section prohibits
the city, in its discretion and in consultation with the grantee, from
exercising its condemnation authority to obtain additional public ROW if
existing public ROW cannot accommodate grantee facilities. City’s duty to
obtain sufficient public ROW or easements from private property owners to
accommodate grantee facilities for relocations not accompanying new development
and for relocations accompanying new development if the city cannot compel a
public ROW dedication or the establishment of a PUE from an applicant seeking
land use approval from the city will cease if state statutes or administrative
rules are revised, enacted or otherwise adopted that permit or require the
grantee to recover the cost of obtaining easements to accommodate a relocation
outside the public ROW under this §
100.08(A) solely from customers located within the city. If state statutes or
administrative rules are so revised, enacted or adopted, the grantee will
obtain such easements from private property owners at the grantee’s cost, and
the grantee shall recover its costs associated with obtaining such easements
from customers located within the city in accordance with Oregon law. Nothing
in this subsection prevents the city and the grantee from agreeing to a
different form of cost recovery on a case-by-case basis consistent with
applicable statutes, administrative rules, or regulations. Should the grantee
fail to remove or relocate any such grantee facilities within 90 days after the
date established by the city, which, except in the event of public emergency,
shall not occur sooner than 90 days after the city provides written notice to
remove/relocate to the grantee, the city may cause or effect such removal or
relocation, performed by a qualified contractor in accordance with applicable
state and federal safety laws and regulations, the grantee’s construction
standards as provided to the OPUC and NESC requirements, and the expense
thereof shall be paid by the grantee. However, when the city requests a
subsequent relocation of all or part of the same grantee facilities less than 2
years after the initial relocation that is necessary or convenient for a public
project, and not at the request of or to accommodate a third party, the
subsequent relocation shall be at the expense of the city unless the relocation
is necessitated by a natural disaster that is not precipitated by the actions
of city or city’s agent.
   (B)   Notice. This division (B) applies to divisions (A), (C) and (E) of
this §
100.08. The city will endeavor to provide as much notice prior to requiring the
grantee to relocate grantee facilities as possible. The notice shall specify
the date by which the existing grantee facilities must be removed or relocated.
Nothing in this provision shall prevent the city and the grantee from agreeing,
either before or after notice is provided, to a mutually acceptable schedule
for relocation. The city and the grantee agree to cooperate in the design phase
to minimize the economic impact of such relocation on the grantee and the city.
   (C)   Permanent relocation - undergrounding. This division (C) applies to
conversions of grantee facilities from overhead to underground regardless of
whether or not such conversion is made in conjunction with a public project. As
permitted by, and in accordance with city ordinance and any applicable law,
administrative rule, or regulation, the city may require the grantee to convert
any overhead grantee facilities to underground grantee facilities at the same
or different locations, subject to the NESC and the grantee’s engineering and
safety standards. This division shall not apply to grantee facilities used for
or in connection with the transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages
in excess of 35,000 volts or to pedestals, cabinets or other above-ground
equipment. Any such underground relocation shall be consistent with applicable
long-term development plans or projects of the city, or as approved by the
city. The expense of such a conversion shall be paid by the grantee, and the
grantee may recover its costs from its customers in accordance with state law,
administrative rule, or regulation. The city agrees to provide a suitable
location in the public ROW, as mutually agreed, that meets the grantee’s
construction standards as provided to the OPUC, NESC requirements and generally
applicable standards published by the city to accommodate and permit upgrade of
grantee facilities in order to maintain sufficient service. If sufficient space
is not available in the public ROW that meets the grantee’s applicable
construction standards, NESC requirements and generally applicable standards
published by the city, then the city will obtain sufficient easements from
private property owners to accommodate grantee facilities in order to maintain
service and permit upgrades of grantee facilities. Nothing in this division
prevents the city and the grantee from agreeing to a different form of cost
recovery on a case-by-case basis consistent with applicable statutes,
administrative rules, or regulations.
   (D)   Temporary relocation at request of third parties.  
      (1)   Whenever it is necessary to temporarily relocate or rearrange any
grantee facility in order to permit the passage of any building, machinery or
other object, the grantee shall perform the work after receiving 60 business
days written notice from the persons desiring to move the building, machinery
or other object. The notice shall:
         (a)   Demonstrate that the third party has acquired at its expense all
necessary permits from the city;
         (b)   Detail the route of movement of the building, machinery, or
other object;
         (c)   Provide that the person requesting the temporary relocation
shall be responsible for the grantee’s costs;
         (d)   Provide that the requestor shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city and the grantee from any and all damages or claims resulting from the
moving of the building, machinery or other object or from the temporary
relocation of grantee facilities; and
         (e)   Be accompanied by a cash deposit or other security acceptable to
the grantee for the costs of relocation.
      (2)   The grantee in its sole discretion may waive the security
obligation. The cash deposit or other security shall be in an amount reasonably
calculated by the grantee to cover the grantee’s costs of temporary relocation
and restoration. All temporary relocations under this division shall comply
with O.R.S. 757.805, as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Temporary relocation at request of city. This division (E) covers
temporary relocation of overhead grantee facilities that will remain overhead,
as well as underground grantee facilities that will remain underground. The
city may require the grantee to temporarily remove and relocate grantee
facilities by giving 60 days notice to the grantee. Prior to such relocation,
the city agrees to provide a suitable location in the public ROW, as mutually
agreed, that meets the grantee’s construction standards provided to the OPUC,
NESC requirements and generally applicable standards published by the city, or
a temporary construction easement that meets the grantee’s construction
standards as provided to the OPUC and NESC requirements, and that allows the
grantee to place its facilities on the easement, in order to maintain
sufficient service and permit upgrades to grantee facilities until such time as
the grantee moves its facilities to their permanent location. The city will
assist in acquiring easements from private property owners if a location is not
available in the public ROW that meets the grantee’s applicable construction
standards, NESC requirements and generally applicable published standards by
the city, or the city has not obtained construction easements for the public
project necessitating the temporary relocation of grantee facilities. The cost
of temporary removal or relocation of grantee facilities that is necessary or
convenient for public projects, as well as the cost of replacing grantee
facilities in their permanent location, shall be paid by the grantee. However,
when the city requests a subsequent relocation of all or part of the same
grantee facilities less than two years after the initial relocation, that is
necessary or convenient for a public project and not at the request of or to
accommodate a third party, the subsequent relocation shall be at the expense of
the city unless the relocation is necessitated by a natural disaster that is
not precipitated by the actions of city or city's agent.
   (F)   Relocation at request of or to accommodate third party. In the event
that any relocation of grantee facilities is requested by or is to accommodate
a third party, the grantee shall seek reimbursement from the third party
consistent with the grantee’s tariff on file with the OPUC and not from the
city. If conditions placed by the city on approval for projects of third
parties cause or require a relocation of the grantee facilities, such
relocation shall not fall under the provisions of divisions (A), (C) or (E) of
this §
100.08.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.09 PUBLIC ROW VACATION.
   If all or a portion of the public ROW used by the grantee is vacated by the
city during the term, the city shall either condition the approval of the
vacation on the reservation of an easement for grantee facilities in their
then-current location that prohibits any use of the vacated property that
interferes with the grantee’s full enjoyment and use of its easement, or permit
grantee facilities to remain in a PUE. If neither of these options is
reasonably possible, the grantee shall, after notice from the city and without
expense to the city, remove grantee facilities from such vacated public ROW,
restore, repair or reconstruct the public ROW where such removal has occurred,
and place the public ROW in good order and condition as may be required by the
city. In the event of failure, neglect or refusal of the grantee, after
providing the grantee with 90 days prior written notice, to repair, restore, or
reconstruct such public ROW, the city may complete such work or cause it to be
completed by a qualified contractor in accordance with applicable state and
federal safety laws and regulations, and the cost thereof shall be born by the
grantee. Upon request, the city will cooperate with the grantee to identify
alternative locations within the public ROW for the grantee facilities if they
are not permitted to remain in the vacated area.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.10 CITY PUBLIC WORKS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   Nothing in this franchise shall be construed in any way to prevent the city
from excavating, grading, paving, planking, repairing, widening, altering, or
completing any work that may be needed or convenient in the public ROW that is
consistent with the NESC. The city shall coordinate any such work with the
grantee to avoid, to the extent reasonably foreseeable, any obstruction, injury
or restrictions on the use by the grantee of any grantee facilities, and the
city shall be responsible for the costs to repair any damage to grantee
facilities arising out of such work. Nothing in this section relieves the
grantee from its obligations stated in §
100.08.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.11 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   City shall maintain attachment agreements and permits to string
wires or attach on the grantee’s poles or run wires in the grantee’s trenches
and/or conduit for municipal purposes and to attach traffic signals, fire and
police alarm and communication equipment to the grantee’s poles, provided that
such wires and equipment:
         (a)   Do not unreasonably interfere with the grantee’s operations;
         (b)   Conform to the NESC; and
         (c)   The city’s excess capacity on such wires and equipment is not
leased to, sold to or otherwise used by non-governmental third parties.
      (2)   The grantee shall not charge the city for such attachments to its
poles or in its conduits; however, the city shall be responsible to pay for any
make-ready and inspections the grantee must perform in order to provide access
to grantee facilities for city wires and equipment in accordance with the NESC.
Should any of the city’s attachments to grantee facilities violate the NESC,
the city shall work with the grantee to address and correct such violations in
an agreed-upon period of time. The city shall indemnify and hold the grantee
harmless from loss or damage resulting from the presence of city’s wires and
equipment on or in grantee facilities. For purposes of this franchise, “make-
ready” shall mean engineering or construction activities necessary to make a
pole, conduit, or other support equipment available for a new attachment,
attachment modifications, or additional facilities.
   (B)   Unless precluded by law or contract, the grantee will upon request
from the city provide the names of electricity service suppliers (as that term
is defined under Oregon law) or other third parties that use the grantee’s
electric light and power system to deliver electricity services to customers
within the city.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.12 PAYMENT FOR USE OF PUBLIC ROW.
   (A)   Use of public ROW. In consideration for its use of the public ROW in
accordance with the terms of this franchise, the grantee agrees to pay the city
an amount equal to ½% of the gross revenue received by the grantee from its
customers within the city. The payment for each year shall be based on the
gross revenue collected by the grantee during the previous calendar year from
the grantee’s customers, and shall be paid on an annual basis. To the extent
permissible un der state law and regulation, the payment imposed by this
division (A) shall be considered an operating expense of the grantee and shall
not be itemized or billed separately to consumers within the city. However,
should the percentage of gross revenue permitted to be considered an operating
expense of the grantee be increased by regulation of the OPUC during the term
of this agreement, the city shall retain the right to require the percentage
amount paid by the grantee under this division (A) be increased, not to exceed
the maximum amount permitted by regulation at that time.
   (B)   Property tax limitations do not apply. The payment described in this §
100.12 is not subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI, Sections
11(b) and 11(19) of the Oregon Constitution and is not a fee imposed on
property or property owners by fact of ownership.
   (C)   Privilege tax. The city shall retain the right, as permitted by Oregon
law, to charge at any time during the term a privilege tax based on a
percentage of the gross revenue earned from the grantee’s customers within the
city in addition to the payment amounts set forth in division (A) so long as
the combined franchise fee and privilege tax do not exceed the maximum rate
allowed under Oregon law. The city shall provide the grantee at least 90 days
notice prior to such privilege tax becoming effective. The grantee shall follow
state regulations regarding the inclusion of such privilege tax as an itemized
charge on the electricity bills of its customers within the city.
   (D)   Remittance of annual payment. The grantee shall remit to the City
Manager on or before the first day of April of each year, the annual 3-1/2%
franchise fee payment, as well as payment of any additional privilege tax, to
be made in such year. Payment must be made in immediately available federal
funds. With its annual payment, the grantee shall provide the city a statement
under oath showing the gross revenue for the preceding year.
   (E)   Acceptance of payment. Acceptance by the city of any payment due under
this section shall not be a waiver by the city of any breach of this franchise
occurring prior to the acceptance, nor shall the acceptance by the city
preclude the city from later establishing that a larger amount was actually
due, or from collecting the balance due to the city.
   (F)   Late payments. Interest on late payments shall accrue from the due
date based on grantee’s cost of debt as approved by the OPUC as of the due
date, and shall be computed based on the actual number of days elapsed from the
due date until payment. Interest shall accrue without regard to whether the
city has provided notice of delinquency. If the late payment is discovered as a
result of an audit, §
100.13 shall apply.
   (G)   No exemption from other fees or taxes. Payment of the amounts
described in this §
100.12 shall not exempt the grantee from the payment of any other license fee,
tax or charge on the business, occupation, property or income of the grantee
that may be lawfully imposed by the city or any other taxing authority, except
as may otherwise be provided in the ordinance or laws imposing such other
license fee, tax or charge.
   (H)   Direct access and volumetric methodologies. The city may, consistent
with state law, direct that the payments made under this §
100.12 be based on volume-based methodologies as specifically described in
O.R.S. 221.655 instead of the formula set out in §
100.12(A) and (C). Notice must be given to the grantee in writing for the
subsequent payments to be made using volume-based methodology. The volumetric
calculation shall apply to payments made in one calendar year (based on January
1 to December 31 billings from the previous calendar year). The choice to use
volumetric methodology must be renewed annually by the city. No notice is
necessary if the city chooses to remain on the revenue-based calculation.
   (I)   Payment obligation survives franchise. If prior to the expiration of
this franchise the parties do not finish negotiation of a new franchise
agreement, the obligation to make the payments imposed by this §
100.12 shall survive expiration of this franchise until a new franchise
agreement becomes effective and supersedes this franchise. In the event this
franchise is terminated before expiration, the grantee shall make the remaining
payments owed, if any, within 90 days of the termination date.
   (J)   The grantee will provide detailed information with its payment
explaining the basis upon which the compensation to the city was calculated.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.13 AUDIT.
   (A)   Audit notice and record access. The city may audit the grantee’s
calculation of gross revenues. Within 10 business days after receiving a
written request from the city, or such other time frame as agreed by both
parties, the grantee shall furnish the city and any auditor retained by the
city:
      (1)   Information sufficient to demonstrate that the grantee is in
compliance with this franchise; and
      (2)   Access to all books, records, maps and other documents maintained
by the grantee with respect to grantee facilities that are necessary for the
city to perform such audit. The grantee shall provide access to such
information to city within the city, or the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area,
during regular grantee business hours.
   (B)   Audit payment. If the city’s audit shows that the amounts due to the
city are higher than those based on the grantee’s calculation of gross revenue,
then the grantee shall make a payment for the difference within 60 days after
the delivery to the grantee of the audit results. In addition to paying any
underpayment, the grantee shall pay interest at the statutory rate designated
in O.R.S. 82.010 as it may be amended from time to time, but not penalties, as
specified in this franchise, from the original due date. If the city’s audit
shows that the amounts due to the city are less than those based on the
grantee’s calculation of gross revenue, then the grantee shall deduct its
overpayment from the next franchise fee payment the grantee makes to the city,
including interest at the statutory rate designated in O.R.S. 82.010, as it may
be amended from time to time, from the original due date. The city and the
grantee agree that they will split the cost of any third party audit conducted
pursuant to this §
100.13, and shall cooperate in good faith to select an acceptable third party
auditor.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.14 TERMINATION AND REMEDIES.
   (A) By city for cause. If the grantee ceases to maintain grantee facilities
in accordance with the maintenance commitments outlined in the service quality
measures review filed with the OPUC, and this causes an increase in the risk to
the public of personal injury or property damage, the city shall notify the
grantee and the grantee shall have 30 days after the date of the notice to
eliminate such risk or, if such risk can not be eliminated within 30 days, such
reasonable time period as is required to eliminate such risk and the grantee
shall bear all costs related to remedying the risk. If the grantee does not
eliminate the risk in accordance with the preceding sentence, the city may then
terminate this franchise by providing the grantee written notice of
termination.
   (B)   By city if city will provide service. The city may terminate this
franchise upon one year’s written notice to the grantee in the event that the
city decides to engage in public ownership of the electric facilities located
in the public ROW and the public distribution of electric energy to customers
throughout the city in accordance with O.R.S. 758.470.
   (C)   City reserves right to terminate. In addition to any other rights
provided for in this franchise, the city reserves the right, subject to §
100.14 (E) and (F), to terminate this franchise in the event that:
      (1)   The grantee materially violates any material provision of this
franchise;
      (2)   The grantee is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have
practiced any material fraud or deceit upon the city;
      (3)   There is a final determination that the grantee has failed,
refused, neglected or is otherwise unable to obtain or maintain the grantee’s
service territory designation required by any federal or state regulatory body
regarding the grantee’s operation of grantee’s electric light and power system;
or
      (4)   The grantee becomes unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or is
adjudged bankrupt.
   (D)   Material provisions. For purposes of this §
100.14, the following are material provisions of this franchise, allowing the
city to exercise its rights under this §
100.14 or as set forth elsewhere in this franchise:
      (1)   The invalidation, failure to pay or any suspension of the grantee’s
payments of franchise fees or privilege taxes to the city for use of the public
ROW under this franchise;
      (2)   Any failure by the grantee to submit timely reports as may be
requested by the city, regarding the calculation of its franchise fees or
privilege taxes paid or to be paid to the city;
      (3)   Any failure by the grantee to maintain the liability insurance or
self insurance required under this franchise;
      (4)   Any failure by the grantee to provide copies of requested
information as provided under §§
100.04,
100.05 and
100.13 above; and
      (5)   Any failure by the grantee to otherwise substantially comply with
the requirements of §§
100.04 through
100.20 of this franchise, unless otherwise agreed.
   (E)   Notice and opportunity to cure. The city shall provide the grantee 30
days prior written notice of its intent to exercise its rights under this §
100.14, stating the reasons for such action. If the grantee cures the basis for
termination or if the grantee initiates efforts satisfactory to the city to
remedy the basis for termination and the efforts continue in good faith within
the 30-day notice period, the city shall not exercise its remedy rights. If the
grantee fails to cure the basis for termination or if the grantee does not
undertake and/or maintain efforts satisfactory to the city to remedy the basis
for termination within the 30-day notice period, then the City Council may
impose any or all of the remedies available under this §
100.14.
   (F)   Remedies. In determining which remedy or remedies are appropriate, the
city shall consider the nature of the violation, the person or persons burdened
by the violation, the nature of the remedy required in order to prevent further
such violations, and any other matters the city deems appropriate.
   (G)   Financial penalty. In addition to any rights set out elsewhere in this
franchise, as well as its rights under the city code or other law, the city
reserves the right at its sole option to impose a financial penalty of up to
$500 per day per material violation of a material provision of this franchise
when the opportunity to cure has passed.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.15 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   The grantee shall not sell, assign, transfer, or convey this franchise to a
third party without the City Council giving its consent in a duly passed
ordinance. Upon obtaining such consent, this franchise shall inure to and bind
such third party. The grantee shall not sell or assign this franchise to an
entity that is not authorized by the OPUC to provide electric service to retail
consumers in the city or is not otherwise authorized to provide electric
service to retail consumers under Oregon law. Prior to any proposed transfer,
the grantee shall be in full compliance with this franchise and the proposed
transferee shall agree in writing to be bound by this franchise. In the event
the grantee is purchased by or merged into another entity and the grantee
survives such purchase or merger as a public utility, the grantee shall provide
notice to the city of such purchase or merger, but shall have no obligation
under this franchise to obtain the consent of the City Council for such
purchase or merger.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.16 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   If this franchise is terminated or expires on its own terms and is not
replaced by a new franchise agreement or similar authorization, the city may
determine whether grantee facilities are to be removed from the public ROW or
remain in place. The city shall provide written notice of any requirement to
remove grantee facilities and shall provide the grantee 60 days to comment on
such requirement to move grantee facilities. Following consideration of any
such comments, the City Manager may issue an order requiring removal of grantee
facilities within 9 months after such order is declared.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.17 NONDISCRIMINATION.
   The grantee shall provide service to electric light and power consumers in
the city without undue discrimination or undue preference or disadvantage, in
accordance with Oregon law.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.18 INDEMNIFICATION.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the grantee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city against any and all claims, damages, costs and expenses,
including attorney’s fees and costs, to which the city may be subjected as a
result of any negligent or willful misconduct of the grantee, or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors, arising
out of the rights and privileges granted by this franchise. The obligations
imposed by this section are intended to survive termination of this franchise.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.19 INSURANCE.
   The grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, for the
entire term, the following insurance covering risks associated with the
grantee’s ownership and use of grantee facilities and the public ROW:
   (A)   Commercial general liability insurance covering all operations by or
on behalf of the grantee for bodily injury and property damage, including
completed operations and contractors liability coverage, in an amount not less
than $2,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate.
   (B)   Business automobile liability insurance to cover any vehicles used in
connection with its activities under this franchise, with a combined single
limit not less than $ 1,000,000 per accident.
   (C)   Workers’ compensation coverage as required by law and employer’s
liability insurance with limits of $1,000,000. With the exception of workers’
compensation and employers liability coverage, the grantee shall name the city
as an additional insured on all applicable policies. All insurance policies
shall provide that they shall not be canceled or modified unless 30 days prior
written notice is provided to the city. The grantee shall provide the city with
a certificate of insurance evidencing such coverage as a condition of this
franchise and shall provide updated certificates upon request.
   (D)   In lieu of insurance. In lieu of the insurance policies required by
this §
100.19, the grantee shall have the right to self-insure any and all of the
coverage outlined hereunder. If the grantee elects to self-insure, it shall do
so in an amount at least equal to the coverage requirements of this §
100.19 in a form acceptable to the city. The grantee shall provide proof of
self-insurance to the city before this franchise takes effect and thereafter
upon request by the city.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.20 DAMAGE TO FACILITIES.
   The city shall not be liable for any consequential damages or losses
resulting from any damage to or loss of any facility as a result of or in
connection with any work by or for the city unless the damage or loss is the
direct and proximate result of willful, intentionally tortuous, negligent or
malicious acts or omissions by the city, its employees, or agents. In such
case, the city shall indemnify and hold harmless the grantee against any and
all claims, damages, costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees and costs,
arising from, subject to any applicable limitations in the Oregon Constitution
and the Oregon Tort Claims Act. The obligations imposed by this section are
intended to survive termination of this franchise.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.21 LIMITATION ON PRIVILEGES.
   All rights and authority granted to the grantee by the city under this
franchise are conditioned on the understanding and agreement that the
privileges in the public ROW shall not be an enhancement of the grantee’s
properties or an asset or item of ownership of the grantee.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.22 FRANCHISE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This franchise is not exclusive and shall not be construed to limit the city
from granting rights, privileges and authority to other persons similar to or
different from those set forth in this franchise.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.23 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   All remedies and penalties under this franchise, including termination, are
cumulative and not exclusive, and the recovery or enforcement by one available
remedy or imposition of a penalty is not a bar to recovery or enforcement by
any other remedy or imposition of any other penalty. The city reserves the
right to enforce the penal provisions of any city ordinance or resolution and
to avail itself to any and all remedies available at law or in equity. Failure
to enforce any term, condition or obligation of this franchise shall not be
construed as a waiver of a breach of any term, condition or obligation of this
franchise. A specific waiver of a particular breach of any term, condition or
obligation of this franchise shall not be a waiver of any other, subsequent or
future breach of the same or any other term, condition or obligation of this
franchise.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.24 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or other portion of
this franchise is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, all portions of this franchise that are not
held to be invalid or unconstitutional shall remain in effect until this
franchise is terminated or expired. After any declaration of invalidity or
unconstitutionality of a portion of this franchise, either party may demand
that the other party meet to discuss amending the terms of this franchise to
conform to the original intent of the parties. If the parties are unable to
agree on a revised franchise agreement within 90 days after a portion of this
franchise is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, either party may
terminate this franchise by delivering 180 days notice to the other party.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.25 ACCEPTANCE.
   Within 30 days after the ordinance adopting this franchise is passed by the
City Council, the grantee shall execute the acceptance language at the end of
this franchise and file this document with the City Recorder. If the grantee
fails to do so within the requisite time period, unless the grantee provides a
list of objections to the City Manager in the same time period, the grantee
shall be deemed to accept the terms of this franchise as of the effective date.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.26 NOTICE.
   (A)   Any notice provided for under this franchise shall be sufficient if in
writing and:
      (1)   Delivered personally to the following addressee;
      (2)   Deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified
mail, return receipt requested;
      (3)   Sent by overnight or commercial air courier (such as Federal
Express or UPS); or
      (4)   Sent by facsimile transmission with verification of receipt,
addressed as follows, or to such other address as the receiving party hereafter
shall specify in writing:
   If to the City: City Manager City of Banks, Oregon
      Address
      120 S Main Street
      Banks, Oregon 97106
      FAX # (503) 324-6674
   With a copy to: City Attorney
      Jim L. Lucas
      Address
      1911 MOUNTAIN VIEW LANE
      Forest Grove, OR 97116
      FAX # (503) 359-1206
   If to the Grantee: Director, Government Affairs
      Portland General Electric Company
      Address
      121 SW Salmon Street
      Portland, Oregon 97204
      FAX: (503) 464-2354
   With a copy to: Portland General Electric Company
      Attn: General Counsel
      One World Trade Center, 17th Floor
      121 SW Salmon Street
      Portland, Oregon 97204
       FAX: (503) 464-2200
   (B)   Any such notice, communication or delivery shall be deemed effective
and delivered upon the earliest to occur of actual delivery, 3 business days
after depositing in the United States mail, one business day after shipment by
commercial air courier or the same day as confirmed facsimile transmission (or
the first business day thereafter if faxed on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday).
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 100.27 EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   The Banks City Council declared a waiver of the 30 day waiting period after
the first reading of this ordinance based upon the fact that the prior
franchise agreement was to expire and a new agreement needed to be implemented
before the 30 day period of time so as not to disallow the use and payment for
the use of the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2010-03-01, passed 3-10-2010; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
CHAPTER 101: NORTHWEST NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   Nature and term of grant
   
101.03   Compensation
   
101.04   Service standards, safety standards and work specifications
   
101.05   Construction, installation and relocation
   
101.06   General financial, liability and insurance provisions
   
101.07   Books of account and reports and audits
   
101.08   Supplying maps upon request
   
101.09   Notices
   
101.10   Forfeiture and remedies
   
101.11   Assignment
   
101.12   Miscellaneous provisions
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter and franchise, the following words and
terms have the meaning stated in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words
used in the present tense include the future tense, and words in the singular
number include the plural number and vice versa. The words shall and will are
mandatory and the word may is permissive.
   CITY means the City of Banks, an Oregon municipal corporation.
   CITY FACILITIES means city-owned street light poles, lighting fixtures,
pipes, cable, wire, conduit, or other city-owned structures or equipment
located within the right-of-way.
   CITY LIMITS means the corporate boundaries of the city, as those boundaries
may change from time to time.
   CONSTRUCT or CONSTRUCTION means, without limitation, constructing,
acquisition, laying, maintaining, testing, operating, extending, renewing,
relocating, removing, replacing, repairing and using gas facilities.
   FRANCHISE means this franchise chapter and agreement as approved by the
Banks City Council and accepted by grantee under §
101.12(H) of this franchise.
   GAS means natural methane-based gas.
   GAS FACILITIES means grantee’s gas transmission, storage and distribution
facilities, including pipes, pipe lines, mains, laterals, conduits, feeders,
regulators, reducing and regulating stations, meters, fixtures, connections and
all attachments, appurtenances, and all accessories necessary and incidental
thereto located within city properties or within the city limits, whether the
facilities are located above or below ground.
   GAS UTILITY SYSTEM means the gas facilities used for the provision of
services.
   GRANTEE means Northwest Natural Gas Company, a corporation duly organized
and existing under the laws of the State of Oregon, and its lawful successors,
assigns, and transferees.
   GROSS REVENUES means revenues received from use of the gas utility system
within the city limits less related net uncollectible. Gross revenues shall
include revenues from the use, rental, or lease of the gas facilities. Gross
revenues shall not include proceeds from the sale of bonds, mortgage or other
evidence of indebtedness, securities or stocks, sales at wholesale by grantee
to any public utility or public agency when the public utility or public agency
purchasing the gas is not the ultimate customer.
   MAINTENANCE, MAINTAINING, or MAINTAIN means, without limitation, relaying,
repairing, replacing, relocating, examining, testing, inspecting, removing,
digging and excavating, and restoring operations incidental thereto.
   PERSON means any individual, municipality, governmental entity, sole
proprietorship, partnership, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, association or other organization authorized to act or do business in
the State of Oregon, and includes any natural person.
   PUBLIC PLACE means any city-owned property that is open to the public and
that is not a right-of-way, and includes public squares and parks.
   PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION means the public utility commission of the State
of Oregon, or its successor agency.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY means the space in, upon, above, or under the public streets,
roads, highways, lanes, courts, ways, alleys, boulevards, sidewalks, bicycle
lanes, bridges, and places used or intended to be used by the general public
for travel as the same now or may hereafter exist, that the city has the right
to allow grantee to use.
   SERVICES means the gas transmission, distribution, sales and marketing
services provided by grantee to its customers located within the city limits.
SERVICES does not include service provided through or by the use of any
equipment, plant or facilities for the transmission of gas which pass through
or over but are not used to provide service in or do not terminate in the city.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.02 NATURE AND TERM OF GRANT.
   (A)   Grant of franchise. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
franchise, the city grants grantee a right, privilege and franchise during the
term of this franchise to:
      (1)   Construct, maintain and operate a gas utility system and exercise
all authority conferred upon grantee by state law within the city limits for
the purpose of providing services to customers within the city limits.
      (2)   Install, operate, maintain, remove, relocate, and replace gas
facilities on and under the right-of-way and to use the right-of-way for the
provision of services. This franchise does not authorize grantee to install or
use gas facilities in the right-of-way for anything other than the provision of
services.
      (3)   Install, operate, maintain, remove, reinstall, relocate and replace
gas facilities for the transmission of gas which are located within the city
limits but are not used to provide services in or do not terminate in the city
limits.
      (4)   Offer and sell services to customers within the city limits.
   (B)   Duration. The term of this franchise, and all rights and obligations
pertaining thereto, shall be 10 years from the date grantee signs and accepts
this franchise in accordance with §
101.12(H), unless terminated sooner as provided herein.
   (C)   Franchise non-exclusive. This franchise is not exclusive. The city
expressly reserves the right to grant franchises or rights to other persons
similar to or different from those granted by this franchise. This franchise is
intended to convey limited rights and interests only as to those public rights-
of-way in which the city has an actual interest. It is not a warranty of title
or interest in any public right-of-way; it does not provide the grantee with
any interest in any particular location within the public rights-of-way; and it
does not confer rights other than as expressly provided in the grant hereof.
This franchise is subject to all deeds, easements, dedications, conditions,
covenants, restrictions, encumbrances, and claims of title of record that may
affect the right-of-way. Nothing in this franchise shall be deemed to grant,
convey, create, or vest in grantee a real property interest in land, including
any fee, leasehold interest, or easement.
   (D)   Reservation of city rights. The city reserves the rights to:
      (1)   Construct, install, maintain and operate any city facility, right-
of-way or public place.
      (2)   Do any work that the city may find desirable on, over or under any
right-of-way or public place. Whenever the city shall excavate or perform any
work in any right-of-way or public place, or shall contract, or issue permits,
for such excavation or work where such excavation or work may disturb grantee’s
gas facilities, the city shall, in writing, notify grantee sufficiently in
advance of such contemplated excavation or work to enable grantee to take such
measures as may be deemed necessary to protect its gas facilities from damage
and possible inconvenience or injury to the public, consistent with the Oregon
Utility Notification Center requirements if applicable. In any such case, the
grantee, upon request, shall furnish maps or drawings to the city showing the
approximate location of all its gas facilities in the area involved in the
proposed excavation or other work. The city shall treat any such map or drawing
as confidential, subject to the provisions of state law and the Oregon Public
Records Law.
      (3)   Exercise any non-regulatory power that the city currently holds, or
may hereafter be authorized or granted by the laws of the State of Oregon or
the City Charter.
      (4)   Vacate, alter or close any right-of-way or public place. Whenever
the city shall vacate any right-of-way or public place for the convenience or
benefit or any person or governmental agency or instrumentality, grantee’s
rights under this franchise shall be preserved as to any of its gas facilities
then existing in the right-of-way or public place if reasonably practicable. To
the extent grantee’s rights in the right-of-way cannot be preserved, city shall
provide an alternative right-of-way for the location of grantee’s gas
facilities. The city shall in writing notify grantee sufficiently in advance, a
minimum of 30 days, of such contemplated excavation or work to enable grantee
to take such measures as may be deemed necessary.
      (5)   Abate any nuisance or dangerous condition.
      (6)   Control or prevent the use of any public place by grantee and
require payment of additional compensation for the use of the public place in
any amount that the city and grantee finds to be mutually agreeable.
      (7)   In addition to the reservations contained in this franchise and
existing applicable ordinances, adopt such additional generally applicable
regulations of the construction, maintenance and operation of grantee’s gas
facilities as the city finds necessary in the exercise of its police powers or
for the orderly development of the city (including but not limited to zoning,
land use, historic preservation ordinances, City of Banks standard
specifications, design standards and drawings and other safety or construction
standards, and other applicable requirements), provided that these regulations,
by ordinance or otherwise, are reasonable and not in conflict with the rights
granted in this franchise. These regulations shall be subject to any
superseding provisions of state or federal law or regulations and shall be in
conformance with standard engineering practices. The city may amend and add to
these regulations from time to time provided that these regulations, by
ordinance or otherwise, are reasonable and not in conflict with the rights
granted in this franchise. Unless in conflict with the rights granted in this
franchise or any superseding provisions of state or federal law or regulations,
the grantee shall promptly comply with these regulations.
      (5)   Franchise as contract. This chapter and the written acceptance by
grantee constitutes a contract between the city and grantee, and is binding
upon and inures to the benefit of grantee and its successors, legal
representatives and assigns, under the conditions imposed herein.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Amount. As compensation for the benefits and privileges granted under
this franchise, and for grantee’s entry upon and deployment within the right-
of-way, grantee shall pay to the city an amount equal to 5% of grantee’s gross
revenues (the “franchise fee”). The franchise fee includes all compensation for
the use of the right-of-way. The franchise fee shall not be deemed to be in
lieu of or a waiver of any ad valorem property tax which the city may now or
hereafter be entitled to, or, or to participate in, or to levy upon the
property of grantee.
   (B)   Due date. The franchise fee shall be due for each quarter ending March
31, June 30, September 30, and December 31, or fraction thereof, within 45 days
after the close of such quarter, or fraction thereof. Within 45 days after the
termination of this franchise, compensation shall be paid for the period
elapsing since the close of the last calendar year for which compensation has
been paid. Any payment not made when due shall accrue interest at 9% per annum
until paid.
   (C)   Report. Grantee shall furnish a statement to the city with each
payment of compensation, in a form acceptable to the city, showing the amount
of gross revenues for the period covered by the payment computed on the basis
set out in division (A) of this section. The compensation for the period
covered by the statement shall be computed on the basis of the reported gross
revenues. Grantee may identify information submitted to the city as
confidential by prominently marking any such information with the mark
“confidential” in letters at least one-half inch in height. Subject to the
disclosure requirements of state or federal law, including the Oregon Public
Records Law, the city shall treat any such information as confidential and not
subject to public disclosure. The grantee shall provide written verification of
the amount of gross revenues, executed by an authorized officer of grantee or
the officer’s authorized designee, upon demand by the city.
   (D)   Acceptance of payment and recomputation. If grantee discovers any
underpayment in the correct amount of compensation due, the city shall be paid
the difference due within 30 days of discovery of the error or determination of
the correct amount. Any overpayment to the city through error or otherwise
shall be offset against the next payment. Acceptance by the city of any payment
due under this section shall not be deemed as an accord that the amount paid is
the correct amount, nor shall any acceptance of payment be construed as a
release of any claim the city may have for additional funds or as a waiver by
the city of any breach of this franchise.
   (E)   New business. The city specifically reserves the right to impose a fee
or tax, as allowed by generally applicable law, on any new business undertaking
of grantee that is operated within the city. The city may otherwise separately
regulate and obtain compensation for any other use of the city’s rights of way
than those specifically authorized herein. The provisions of this franchise
agreement do not impair the imposition of ad valorem taxes on the property of
the grantee as allowed by law.
   (F)   Renegotiation. Upon 30 days written notice by either party to the
other of a requested modification, the provisions of division (A) above of this
section may be modified. If the parties are unable to agree to a modification
of division (A) or to a continuation of the same provisions within 90 days of
receipt of the notice of requested modification, or such longer time as may be
agreed to by the parties, the franchise shall terminate.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.04 SERVICE STANDARDS, SAFETY STANDARDS AND WORK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Quality of services. The grantee shall maintain and operate an
adequate system for the distribution of gas in the city. The grantee shall use
due diligence to maintain continuous and uninterrupted 24-hour a day service
which shall at all times conform at least to the standards common in the
business and to the standards adopted by the Public Utility Commission and
other state authorities. Under no circumstances shall the grantee be liable for
an interruption or failure of service cause by act of God, unavoidable accident
or other circumstances beyond the control of the grantee through no fault of
its own.
   (B)   Construction and maintenance of gas facilities. Grantee’s gas
facilities shall be constructed and maintained in good order and condition, in
a safe manner, and in accordance with standard engineering practices and all
lawful governmental regulations.
   (C)   Protection of property. Grantee shall install and maintain all gas
facilities in a manner that does not injure the right-of-way, the city’s
property within the city limits. Grantee shall, at its own expense, repair,
renew, change, and improve the gas facilities from time to time as may be
necessary to accomplish this purpose.
   (D)   Compliance with state and federal regulations. The rates to be charged
and the rules and regulations in respect to the conditions, character, quality
and standards of service to be furnished by grantee shall be those as may be
lawfully prescribed by the Public Utility Commission. In the event this
jurisdiction or right of regulation, or any part thereof, is abandoned by the
Public Utility Commission and is not vested exclusively by law in any other
state regulatory body, and in the event this jurisdiction may be lawfully
exercised by the city, consistent with §
101.02(D)(7), the city reserves the right, and grantee shall comply with, all
reasonable ordinances, rules and regulations made by the city in the exercise
of this jurisdiction or right of regulation.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION AND RELOCATION.
   (A)   Construction and installation. Subject to city-established
requirements concerning work in the rights of way, including permitting,
insurance, bonding, work scheduling, and payment of administrative fees for
permits, grantee may enter upon the right-of-way to perform all work that is
necessary to install, operate, maintain, remove, reinstall, relocate, and
replace gas facilities in or under the surface of the right-of-way or public
place. Grantee shall be responsible for all construction, installation, and
maintenance work, regardless of who performs the work. Except in emergencies,
prior to making an excavation in any untraveled portion of any right-of-way,
the grantee shall obtain from the city approval of the proposed excavation and
of its location. Grantee shall give notice to the city by telephone, electronic
data transmittal or other appropriate means prior to the commencement of
service or maintenance work and consistent with division (E) below of this
section after commencement or work performed under emergency conditions.
   (B)   Permits and fees. Consistent with its authority under §
101.02(D)(7) of this franchise, and except when work is necessary during an
emergency or to remedy an immediate risk of harm to persons or property, the
city may require grantee to obtain a permit before commencing the construction,
maintenance, extension or relocation of any of its gas facilities in the right-
of-way or a public place. The city in all cases may charge grantee any
applicable permit fees. The city shall promptly respond to grantee’s requests
for permits and shall otherwise cooperate with grantee in facilitating the
deployment of equipment in the right-of-way in a reasonable and timely manner.
Applications for permits to construct or modify a gas utility system shall be
submitted upon forms approved by the city and shall be accompanied by drawings,
plans and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
      (1)   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
      (2)   The facilities will be constructed in accordance with the franchise
if applicable.
      (3)   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the lien and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route. Existing facilities shall be differentiated on the
plans from new construction.
      (4)   The location and plan view of all of applicant’s existing
utilities, conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the
public rights-of-way along the route proposed by the applicant. A profile and
plan view shall be provided showing new facilities in relation to the street,
curb, sidewalk or public right-of-way.
   (C)   No interference. All gas facilities of grantee shall be constructed
and laid in such a manner as not to interfere with the use by the city and the
public of the right-of-way and public places or with any public or private
irrigation or drain ditches, sewers, water mains, conduits, sidewalks, paving
or other public improvements or utility structures. Northwest Natural will not
pay the relocation costs as a result of private improvements or private
development activities. Further, if any of grantee’s gas facilities
unreasonably interfere with the construction or repair of any right-of-way or
city facility, grantee’s gas facility shall be removed or replaced in
coordination with the city. Any and all removal or replacement shall be at
grantee’s sole expense. Should grantee fail to remove or relocate its gas
facility by the date established by the city, the city may cause such removal
or relocation through the use of qualified contractors, and the expense thereof
shall be paid by grantee, including all costs and expenses incurred by the city
due to grantee’s delay.
   (D)   Relocation.
      (1)   In case of any future improvement, maintenance or construction of
city facilities in the right-of-way or upon a public place, or of any of the
streets, avenues, lanes, alleys, highways, sidewalks or pedestrian ways in the
right-of-way, where any gas facilities are located, and the city determines it
is necessary to change the location of the gas facilities in connection with
the improvement, maintenance or construction, grantee shall, upon reasonable
notice by city and after reasonable evaluation of alternatives by city in
cooperation with grantee, at grantee’s own expense, move and change any gas
facility to conform to the public improvement.
      (2)   The city shall avoid the need for moving or changing a gas facility
whenever reasonably possible, as determined by the City Manager or
Administrator, or his or her designee.
      (3)   When removal or relocation of a gas facility is required for the
convenience or benefit of any person other than the city, grantee shall be
entitled to reimbursement for the reasonable cost thereof from that person.
      (4)   If grantee shall fail to relocate or remove any gas facility as
requested by the city by the date established by the city, the city may cause
the gas facility to be removed by qualified contractors at grantee’s sole
expense. Upon receipt of a demand for payment from the city, grantee shall
promptly reimburse the city for the costs the city incurred.
   (E)   Emergencies. In the event of an emergency, the city shall notify
grantee as soon as is reasonably possible. Upon request, grantee shall furnish
maps or drawings to the city showing locations of all distribution facilities
subject to proposed excavation or other work. In the event emergency repairs of
an existing facility are necessary, work may commence prior to the application
for a permit. The application for a permit for an emergency repair must be
submitted within 72 hours following the initial emergency.
   (F)   Damage to right-of-way. Whenever the installation, operation,
maintenance, removal, reinstallation, replacement or relocation of gas
facilities damages or disturbs the right-of-way, grantee, at its sole cost and
expense, shall promptly repair and return the right-of-way to the condition it
was in before it was damaged or disturbed, as approved by the city. If grantee
does not repair the right-of-way as just described, then the city may, upon 30
days’ prior written notice to grantee, repair the right-of-way at grantee’s
sole expense. Upon the receipt of a demand for payment from the city, grantee
shall promptly reimburse the city for the costs the city incurred.
   (G)   Safety. Grantee shall insure that all work performed in the right-of-
way is performed in a manner that ensures safety of workers and the public.
   (H)   Emergency operation provisions. The grantee will provide the city with
an emergency response plan detailing procedure for response to emergencies
involving gas facilities and other system components. The grantee may update
this plan from time to time, with notice to the city. To the extent
practicable, the emergency response plan will include at least the following
information:
      (1)   The names and 24-hour telephone numbers of responsible parties with
the authority to commit the resources of the grantee.
      (2)   The name and 24-hour telephone numbers of the grantee’s emergency
coordinator and other emergency contacts available to respond during
emergencies.
      (3)   How the grantee’s response personnel will interface with local
first responders during emergencies.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.06 GENERAL FINANCIAL, LIABILITY AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Insurance.
      (1)   Grantee shall maintain public liability and property damage
insurance that protects grantee and the city, as well as the city’s officers,
agents, and employees, with the following limits and coverages:
         (a)   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less
than:
            1.   $3,000,000 for bodily injury or death to each person;
            2.   $3,000,000 for property damage resulting from any 1 accident;
and,
            3.   $3,000,000 for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a limit of $1,000,000 for each person and a combined limit of $3,000,000
for each accident.
         (c)   Workers’ compensation coverage at a minimum consistent with
state law, and employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000.
      (2)   The limits of the insurance shall be subject to statutory changes
as to increases in the maximum limits of liability imposed on municipalities of
the State of Oregon during the term of this franchise. The grantee will
maintain on file with the City Recorder a certificate of insurance certifying
the coverage required above. After notice to the franchisee, the failure to
maintain insurance shall be cause for immediate termination of this franchise
by the city.
      (3)   The insurance shall be without prejudice to coverage otherwise
existing and shall name as additional insureds, the city and its officers,
agents, and employees. Notwithstanding the naming of additional insureds, the
insurance shall protect each insured in the same manner as though a separate
policy had been issued to each, but nothing in this division (A)(3) shall
operate to increase the insurer’s liability as set forth elsewhere in the
policy beyond the amount or amounts for which the insurer would have been
liable if only 1 person or interest had been named as insured. The coverage
must apply as to claims between insureds on the policy.
      (4)   The insurance shall provide that the insurance shall not be
canceled or materially altered without 30 days’ prior written notice first
being given to the city. If the insurance is canceled or materially altered
within the term of this franchise, grantee shall provide a replacement policy
with the same terms as required in this franchise. Grantee shall maintain
continuous uninterrupted coverage, in the terms and amounts required, upon and
after the effective date of this franchise.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   Grantee hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the city, its
officers, agents, and employees harmless from any claims for injury, damage,
loss, liability, cost or expense, including court and appeal costs and attorney
fees or expenses, arising from any casualty or accident to person or property
by reason of any act done under this franchise, by or for grantee, its agents
or employees, or by reason of any negligent or omission of grantee to keep its
gas facilities in a safe condition. The duty to indemnify shall not extend to
any gross negligence or willful misconduct by the city, its officers, agents or
employees.
      (2)   The city shall provide grantee with prompt notice of any such
claim, which grantee shall defend with counsel that is mutually acceptable to
the city and the grantee, and no settlement or compromise of any such claim
will be done by either party without the prior written approval of the grantee.
Grantee and its agents, contractors and other employees shall consult and
cooperate with the city while conducting its defense of the city, and the
city’s officers, agents, employees, and assigns will consult and cooperate with
grantee while conducting its defense of the city.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.07 BOOKS OF ACCOUNT AND REPORTS AND AUDITS.
   (A)   The grantee shall keep accurate books of account for at least 3 years
at an office in Oregon for the purpose of determining the amounts due to the
city under §
101.03 of this franchise. Authorized representatives of the city may inspect
the books of account at any time during business hours and may audit the books
from time to time. The city may require periodic reports from the grantee
relating to its operations and revenues within the city limits. The city shall
treat any public record relating to grantee's operations or revenues as
confidential, subject to the provisions of state law and the Oregon Public
Records Law.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to conduct, or cause to be conducted, an
audit of gross revenues as defined herein for the purpose of ascertaining
whether grantee’s franchise fee payments have met the requirements of this
franchise. The cost of any such audit shall be borne by city, unless the
results of any such audit reveal an underpayment of more than 5% of the
franchise fee for the period audited. In the case of such underpayment, the
full cost of such audit shall be paid by grantee. Any difference of payment due
either the city or the grantee following audit shall be payable within 30 days
of written notice to the affected party. All books will be made available to
authorized representatives of the city at no cost to the city.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.08 SUPPLYING MAPS UPON REQUEST.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain on file, at an office in Oregon, maps and
operational data pertaining to its operations in the city limits. Authorized
representatives of the city may inspect the maps and data at any time during
business hours. Upon request of the city, the grantee shall furnish to the
city, without charge and on a current basis, maps showing the location of the
gas facilities of the grantee in the city.
   (B)   Grantee and the city may determine that the location of certain gas
facilities should be confidential as the public interest may require. In such a
case, the grantee shall notify the city of which records disclosing the
location of gas facilities should be treated as confidential. The city shall
treat any public record disclosing the location of these facilities as
confidential, subject to the provisions of state law and the Oregon Public
Records Law. The city shall limit access to any such confidential record to
trustworthy employees of the city with a need to know the information set out
in the record. The city shall store any such confidential record in a secure
and private place and avoid making and distributing copies of the record. This
division is not a limitation of grantee’s obligation to provide required permit
information as set forth in §
101.05(B) of this agreement.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.09 NOTICES.
   (A)   Manner. All notices that shall or may be given pursuant to this
franchise shall be in writing and delivered personally or transmitted:
      (1)   Through the United States mail, by registered or certified mail,
postage prepaid;
      (2)   By means of prepaid overnight delivery service; or
      (3)   By facsimile or e-mail transmission, if a hard copy of the same is
followed by delivery through the United States mail or by overnight delivery
service as just described and there is written confirmation of the facsimile or
e-mail, addressed as follows:
   If to the City:   City of Banks
         P.O. Box 428
         Banks, OR 97106
         Attention: City Manager
   If to Grantee:   NW Natural
         220 NW Second Avenue
         Portland, OR 97209
         Attention: Franchise Manager
   (B)   Date of notices; changing notice address. Notices shall be deemed
effective upon receipt in the case of personal delivery, 3 days after deposit
in the mail, or 1 business day after in the case of facsimile, e-mail, or
overnight delivery. Either party may from time to time designate other
addresses for providing notice, if the change of address is provided in writing
and delivered in the manner set forth above.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.10 FORFEITURE AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Forfeiture. The city may terminate this franchise as provided in this
section, subject to grantee’s right to a court review of the reasonableness of
such action, upon the willful failure of grantee to comply promptly and
completely with each and every material term, condition or obligation imposed
upon grantee by this franchise.
   (B)   Notice and opportunity to cure. The city shall give grantee 90 days
prior written notice of its intent to exercise its rights under §
101.10(A), stating the reasons for declaring a forfeiture. If grantee cures the
stated reason within the 90-day notice period, or if grantee initiates efforts
to remedy the stated reason and, to the city’s satisfaction, the efforts
continue in good faith, the city shall not exercise its right to terminate the
franchise by forfeiture. If grantee fails to cure the stated reason within the
90-day notice period, or if grantee does not undertake and/or maintain efforts
to remedy the stated reason to the city’s satisfaction, then the city may
declare the franchise forfeited and terminate the franchise. In no event shall
the city exercise its rights under this section if a bona fide, good-faith
dispute exists between the city and grantee as to the basis of the forfeiture.
   (C)   Remedies not exclusive. All remedies and penalties under this
franchise, including termination of the franchise, are cumulative, and the
recovery or enforcement of one is not a bar to the recovery or enforcement of
any other such remedy of penalty. The remedies and penalties contained in this
franchise, including termination of the franchise, are not exclusive and the
city reserves the right to enforce the penal provisions of any ordinance or
resolution and to avail itself of any and all remedies available at law or in
equity. Failure to enforce shall not be construed as a waiver of a breach of
any term, condition or obligation imposed upon the grantee by or pursuant to
this franchise. In determining which remedy or remedies are appropriate, the
city shall consider the nature of the violation, there person or persons
burdened by the violation, the nature of the remedy required in order, to
prevent further such violation, and any other matters the city deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.11 ASSIGNMENT.
   This franchise shall not be assigned or transferred without the prior
written consent of the city, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned, or delayed, provided the franchise is transferred or assigned to
an entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under the common control of
the grantee or is approved by the Oregon Public Utility Commission. If the city
consents to an assignment or transfer of the franchise, the transfer or
assignment shall not be effective until the assignee or transferee has complied
with the requirements in §
101.06 and filed a signed acceptance of the terms of this franchise.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
§ 101.12 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Waiver of breach. The waiver by either party of any breach or
violation of any provision of this franchise shall not be deemed to be a waiver
or a continuing waiver of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or any
other provision of this franchise.
   (B)   Severability of provisions. If any one or more of the provisions of
this franchise is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable or preempted by federal or state laws or regulations, such
provision(s) shall be deemed severable from the remaining provisions of this
franchise and shall not affect the legality, validity, or constitutionality of
the remaining portions of this franchise.
   (C)   Governing law and choice of forum. This franchise shall be governed
and construed by and in accordance with the laws of the State of Oregon without
reference to its conflicts of law principles. If suit is brought by a party to
this franchise, the parties agree that trial of such action shall be vested
exclusively in the state courts of Oregon, County of Washington, or in the
United States District Court for the District of Oregon.
   (D)   Representations and warranties. Each of the parties to this franchise
represents and warrants that it has the full right, power, legal capacity, and
authority to enter into and perform the parties’ respective obligations
hereunder and that such obligations shall be binding upon such party without
the requirement of the approval or consent of any other person or entity in
connection herewith.
   (E)   No third party beneficiaries. Nothing in this franchise shall be
construed or applied to create rights in or grant remedies to any third party
as a beneficiary of this franchise or any duty or obligation established in
this franchise.
   (F)   Independent contractor status. When performing under this franchise,
grantee shall be an independent contractor and not an agent, employee or
representative of the city in the performance of work pursuant to this
franchise. No term or provision of this franchise, or act of the grantee or its
agents shall be construed as changing that status.
   (G)   Amendment of franchise. This franchise may not be amended, except
pursuant to a written instrument signed by grantee and approved by the Banks
City Council.
   (H)   Acceptance. Within 30 days after the Council adopts this franchise
ordinance and the Mayor signs the franchise ordinance grantee shall file with
the City Recorder a written unconditional acceptance of this franchise. If
grantee fails to file its acceptance, this franchise chapter shall be void,
unless the city grants grantee an extension of time.
   (I)   Entire agreement. This franchise contains the entire understanding
between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein. There are no
representations, agreements, or understandings (whether oral or written)
between or among the parties relating to the subject matter of this franchise
that are not fully expressed herein.
(Ord. 2008-04-01, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010)
CHAPTER 102: COMCAST FRANCHISE
Section
   
102.01   Grant of franchise
§ 102.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   There is hereby granted to Comcast of Oregon II, Inc. a non-exclusive
cable services franchise on the terms and conditions contained in Exhibit A
attached to Ordinance 2015-08-01.
   (B)   The grant of franchise at division (A) is conditioned upon each of the
following events:
      (1)   The affirmative vote of the governing body of each MACC member
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Comcast of Oregon II, Inc.’s fulfillment of the franchise
acceptance provisions contained in the Franchise; and
      (3)   Formal written determination by the MACC Administrator that, in
accordance with the requirements of the IGA, each of the above two events has
occurred.
(Ord.011299, passed 1-12-1999; Am. Ord. 91499-1, passed 10- -1999; Am. Res.
2002-13, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5- 13-2010; Am. Ord. 2015-
08-01, passed 9-8- 2015)
CHAPTER 103: ZIPLY FIBER NORTHWEST FRANCHISE
Section
   
103.01   Definitions
   
103.02   Grant of franchise
   
103.03   Initial term of franchise; renewal
   
103.04   Franchise territory
   
103.05   Excavations; construction; relocation of facilities
   
103.06   Construction and performance bond
   
103.07   Improvements; utility obstruction prohibited
   
103.08   Maintenance of facilities; removal of facilities when no longer in use
   
103.09   Emergency removal of facilities; alternate routing of facilities
   
103.10   Compliance with law, rules and regulations
   
103.11   Indemnification and insurance
   
103.12   Compensation
   
103.13   No waiver
   
103.14   Amendment
   
103.15   Forfeiture and remedies
   
103.16   Severability
   
103.17   Successors and assigns
   
103.18   Notices
   
103.19   Acceptance and effective date
   
103.20   Repeal of prior franchises
§ 103.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation of this
franchise agreement.
   FACILITIES means poles, pole extensions, attachments and related facilities
of any kind, placed, erected, maintained, owned or managed by the franchisee
within the city’s rights-of-way.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY means the present and future streets, viaducts, elevated
roadways, alleys, public highways, and avenues in the city, including public
rights-of-way held in fee or by virtue of an easement or dedication.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.02 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of the Banks Municipal Code (BMC), the city
hereby grants to Ziply Fiber Northwest, LLC, a Delaware company, and its
successors and assigns (collectively and individually, the “franchisee”), the
non-exclusive right and privilege to place, erect, lay, maintain and operate
in, upon, over and under the city’s public rights-of-way, its facilities, as
defined herein, for the purpose of providing physical support, attachment and
housing for telecommunications service providers and other utilities that
require such facilities.
   (B)   The scope of this franchise allows the installation, maintenance and
repair of facilities installed by franchisee in the city’s rights-of-way for
the purposes described herein.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Manager, or the City Manager’s
designee, shall have the authority to designate which rights-of-ways the
franchisee may use, the location(s) where the franchisee may place its
facilities within the public rights-of-way, and the maximum dimensions of those
facilities as may be reasonably necessary to minimize public inconvenience and
comply with BMC
Chapter 112 (Telecommunications Facilities), unless this franchise agreement
provides otherwise, and the city’s adopted engineering standards.
   (D)   This franchise is not transferable and shall not allow or permit the
operation of any service provider within the city that might attach equipment,
lines, antennas or other facilities to the franchisee’s facilities. Any utility
or service provider that desires to attach equipment, lines, antennas or other
facilities to the franchisee’s facilities is required to obtain its own
franchise from the city for use of the public rights-of-way pursuant to BMC
Chapter 96 (Regulation of the Public Rights-of-Way).
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.03 INITIAL TERM OF FRANCHISE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Initial term. The franchise granted pursuant to this agreement shall
be in effect for a term of 10 years, beginning on the effective date of this
agreement.
   (B)   Renewal. At the conclusion of the initial 10-year term, this franchise
shall automatically renew for 2 successive 5-year renewal terms, unless either
party provides notice to the other party at least 60 days prior to the
expiration of a term of the party’s decision to not renew. In that case, the
franchise will not renew but will expire at the conclusion of the term in which
notice was provided. If the franchise is not renewed, the franchisee shall have
120 days after the conclusion of the term to remove its facilities from the
city’s public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.04 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   The geographic area covered by this franchise shall include all land within
the corporate municipal boundary of the city as it currently exists or may be
expanded to exist in the future through annexation.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.05 EXCAVATIONS; CONSTRUCTION; RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Subject to compliance with all requirements of BMC
Chapter 96 (Regulation of the Public Rights-of-Way) and all applicable
provisions of the city's adopted engineering standards, the franchisee may make
all needful excavations in any street, alley, avenue, thoroughfare, public
utility easement and public highway, in the city where excavation has been
authorized for the purpose of placing the franchisee’s facilities, or
repairing, renewing or replacing the same. A PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT means the
space in, upon, above, along, across, over or under an easement for
constructing, reconstructing, operating, maintaining, inspecting and repairing
utility facilities. A PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT does not include an easement
solely for the constructing, reconstructing, operating, maintaining, inspecting
and repairing of city facilities, or where the proposed use by a utility
operator is inconsistent with the terms of any easement granted to the city.
The authority granted in this section shall apply only to the extent of the
city’s right, title, interest, or authority to grant a franchise to occupy and
use such spaces for the franchisee’s facilities. Any such work shall be done in
compliance with BMC Chapter 96, the then-current city engineering standards,
and all other applicable local, state and federal laws, rules, regulations,
ordinances and orders, as may be amended from time to time by the city or other
regulatory authority.
   (B)   The franchisee shall obtain from the city all applicable permits,
including a public works right-of-way permit, that will require plan submittal,
approval and the payment of fees before any work within the city rights-of-way
begins. The franchisee shall file with the city maps, showing the location of
the construction, extension or relocation or any of the franchisee’s
facilities, and shall obtain the city’s approval of the location and plans
prior to the commencement of the work. All facilities installed by the
franchisee within the city shall be located so as to cause minimum interference
with the proper use of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public ways and
places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the streets, sidewalks,
bridges or other public ways or places.
   (C)   Unless approved by the city, the grantee shall not cut into, excavate
or disturb any newly overlaid, paved or constructed street for a period of 5
years from the time of completion of the street overlay, pavement or street
construction. In the event that moling, boring or shoulder work are not
feasible to construct necessary system improvements or to repair a system
failure, the grantee may request, and the city will consider, allowing the
grantee to cut the street before the expiration of the 5-year moratorium
described in this subsection, subject to appropriate additional compensation
charged to the grantee for such damage to the city street.
   (D)   When any excavation is made by the franchisee into a public right-of-
way, the franchisee shall promptly restore the affected portion of the street,
sidewalk, bridge, easement area, or public place to the reasonably same or
better condition in which it was prior to the excavation. The restoration shall
be done in compliance with city specifications, requirements and regulations in
effect at the time of the restoration. If the franchisee fails to promptly
restore the affected portion of the street, sidewalk, bridge, easement area, or
public place to the same condition in which it was prior to the excavation, the
city may make the restoration; and the reasonable costs of making the
restoration, including the cost of inspection, supervision and administration,
shall be paid by the franchisee.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to require the franchisee to relocate its
facilities within the right-of-way in the interest of public convenience,
necessity, health, safety, or welfare at no cost to the city and in accordance
with BMC §§
112.050 (Location of Facilities) and
112.052 (Relocation and Removal of Facilities). The city shall provide the
franchisee 90-days’ written notice of the requirement to relocate its
facilities, after which the franchisee shall promptly commence the relocation
of its facilities at no cost to the city. Before requiring a relocation of
facilities, the city shall, with the assistance of the franchisee, make a
reasonable effort to identify a reasonable location for the relocated
facilities within the public ways of the city. If the removal or relocation of
facilities is necessitated as a direct result of a private development, the
franchisee may charge the expense of removal or relocation to the developer.
The franchisee shall be solely responsible for enforcing collection from the
developer.
   (F)    The franchisee shall not be obligated to pay the cost of any
relocation that is required or made a condition of a private development. If
the removal or relocation of facilities is caused directly or otherwise by an
identifiable development of property in the area, or is made for the
convenience of a customer, the franchisee may charge the expense of removal or
relocation to the developer or customer. The city agrees that it shall
reasonably cooperate with the franchisee’s efforts to collect reimbursement
from such developers or customers as described in this section.
   (G)    The franchisee shall provide the city with an accurate map or maps,
certifying the location of all of its facilities in the city. The first of
these maps shall be provided within 30 days after completion of facility
installation in public rights-of-way. The franchisee shall provide updated maps
thereafter annually on the anniversary of the date the first map was provided.
   (H)   The city shall have the right, without cost, to use all poles and
suitable overhead structures owned by the franchisee within the public ways for
city wires used in connection with its fire alarms, police signal systems, or
other communication lines used for governmental purposes; provided, however,
any such uses shall be for activities owned, operated or used by the city for
public purpose, and shall not include the provision of CATV, internet or
similar services to the public. Provided further, that the franchisee shall
assume no liability, nor shall it incur, directly or indirectly, any additional
expense in connection therewith, and the city’s use of these poles and
structures shall be in such a manner as to prevent safety hazards or
interferences with the franchisee’s use of same.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.06 CONSTRUCTION AND PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Prior to the commencement of any construction work, the franchisee shall
file both a construction and performance bond in an amount approved by the city
in favor of the city and any other person who may suffer damages as a result of
the breach of any duty by the franchisee assured by such bond. Such bond as
contemplated herein shall be in a form approved by the city and shall, among
other matters, cover the cost of removal of any property of the franchisee. In
no event shall the amount of the bond be construed to limit the liability of
the franchisee for damages. The city, at its sole option, may waive this
requirement, or permit the consolidation of the construction bond with the
performance bond.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.07 IMPROVEMENTS; UTILITY OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   The city reserves the right to construct, install, maintain and operate any
public improvement, work or facility, to do any work that the city may find
desirable on, over or under any street, bridge or public place, and to vacate,
alter or close any street, bridge or public place. Nothing in this section
shall be construed in any way to prevent the proper authorities of the city
from installing sanitary sewer or storm sewer facilities, providing water
service, grading, planking, rocking, paving, repairing, altering or improving
any of the streets, alleys, avenues, thoroughfares and public highways, places
and grounds within the city in or upon which the franchisee’s facilities shall
be placed, but all such work or improvements shall be done, if possible, so as
not to obstruct or prevent the free use of the facilities, and the moving of
the franchisee’s facilities, where required due to such work by the city, will
be done by the franchisee within 120 days of notice by the city, without cost
to the city. The franchisee shall furnish maps or drawings to the city or
contractor, as the case may be, showing the approximate location of all its
conduits or fiber optic cable in the area involved in the proposed work.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.08 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF FACILITIES WHEN NO LONGER IN
USE.
   The franchisee shall maintain in good and functioning condition all of its
facilities at all times, including any light poles or similar fixtures that
provide service beyond the franchisee’s business needs. In the event any of the
franchisee’s facilities need repair or replacement, the city may give written
notice of what is needed, and the franchisee shall have no more than 30
calendar days to effect the repair or replacement, including light bulb
replacement. The franchisee shall remove all or any of its facilities from the
public right-of-way within 90 days of their no longer being used. If the
franchisee fails to so remove its facilities, the city may provide written
notice to do so, in which case the franchisee shall remove the facility within
90 calendar days of the city’s notice.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.09 EMERGENCY REMOVAL OF FACILITIES; ALTERNATE ROUTING OF FACILITIES.
   If, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other threat to public safety
in the franchise territory, it shall become necessary in the reasonable
judgment of the city to cut or move any of the franchisee’s facilities, such
cutting or moving may be done. Any repairs rendered necessary thereby shall be
made by the franchisee, at its sole expense, provided that such repairs are not
necessitated by a negligent act of the city, in which case costs for repairs
shall be borne by the city.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.10 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times during the term of this franchise, the franchisee shall comply
with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and engineering
standards of the United States of America, the State of Oregon, and the City of
Banks, including all agencies and subdivisions thereof. The franchisee shall be
subject to the lawful exercise of the police power of the city, and to such
reasonable regulations of general applicability as the city may from time to
time hereafter, by resolution or ordinance, provide insofar as they do not
materially alter or impair the express provisions of this franchise. No
provision of this franchise shall be construed as a waiver of local, state or
federal law, or as a limit of liability. The franchisee shall at all times keep
and maintain all of its facilities in a good state of repair, and shall at all
times conduct its operations under this franchise, including installation,
construction or maintenance of its facilities, in a safe and workmanlike manner
so as not to present a danger to the public or the city. The location,
construction, extension, installation, maintenance, removal and relocation of
the franchisee’s facilities shall conform to the requirements of the state and
federal statutes and regulations adopted pursuant thereto in force at the time
of such work, and such reasonable specifications in force at the time of such
work, as the city may from time to time adopt. All installations,
rearrangements, removals, lowering or raising of the facilities shall be done
in conformance with the requirements of the National Electric Safety Code,
state laws, and city ordinances and engineering standards. The city may provide
such specifications relating thereto as may be necessary or convenient for
public safety or the orderly development of the city. The city may amend and
add to such specifications from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.11 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall pay, save harmless, defend and indemnify the city
from any loss, suit or claim of any kind against the city on account of, or in
connection with, any activity or facility of the franchisee, including the
placement, construction, operation, maintenance or existence of its facilities.
The franchisee will not be required to indemnify the city for the negligent or
willful misconduct of the city, or of its officials, boards, commissions,
agents or employees, to the extent that such misconduct is the proximate cause
of any claim.
   (B)   To carry out the provisions of this section, prior to commencing
construction of any kind, the franchisee shall have in full force and effect,
and file and maintain during the term of the franchise, a certificate of
insurance, evidence thereto with the City Manager, with good and sufficient
policies covering:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation insurance as required by the state, and the
franchisee shall ensure that each of its subcontractors complies with these
same requirements and shall contain a waiver of subrogation against the city:
and
      (2)   Commercial general liability insurance, with limits of at least
$2,000,000 per occurrence and $4,000,000 general aggregate, with the aggregate
on a per-project basis; and
      (3)   Business automobile liability insurance for any owned, hired or
non-owned vehicles used in the performance of this agreement, with combined
single limits of $2,000,000 each accident.
   (C)   The city, its officers, agents and employees, shall be named an
additional insured in the policy for losses caused, in whole or in part, by
reason of the exercise of the rights and privileges granted herein.
   (D)   Upon any material alteration or cancellation of any of the coverage,
the franchisee shall give the city notice as allowed per the insured’s
insurance policy in advance of the effective date of the alteration or
cancellation of the coverage.
   (E)   Each policy, commercial general liability, auto liability and worker’s
compensation, shall contain a waiver of subrogation against the city.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.12 COMPENSATION.
   (A)    The franchisee shall pay a franchise fee to the city in an amount
equal to 7% of the franchisee's gross revenue derived from its operations
within the city. Gross revenues shall have the same meaning as in set forth in
O.R.S. 221.515.
   (B)   Payment of franchise fees. Payments due under this provision shall be
computed and paid quarterly for the preceding quarter, as of March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31, with each quarterly payment due and payable no
later than 30 days after each date. This franchise fee shall be deposited in
the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the City Finance Director, and
postmarked by the due date described herein.
   (C)   If a payment is not mailed or sent electronically within 30 days of
the due date set forth above, the payment shall be deemed delinquent and shall
accrue a late fee of 9% compound interest per annum until collected.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.13 NO WAIVER.
   Neither the city nor the franchisee shall be excused from complying with any
of the terms and
conditions of this franchise by any failure of the other, or any of its
officers, employees or agents, upon any one or more occasions to insist upon or
to seek compliance with any such terms and conditions.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.14 AMENDMENT.
   At any time during the term of this franchise, the city through its City
Council, or the franchisee may propose amendments to this franchise by giving
30 days’ written notice to the other party of the proposed amendment(s)
desired, and both parties thereafter, through their designated representatives,
will, within a reasonable time, negotiate in good faith in an effort to agree
upon mutually satisfactory amendment(s). No amendment or amendments to this
franchise shall be effective until mutually agreed upon by the city and the
franchisee, and formally adopted as an ordinance amendment.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.15 FORFEITURE AND REMEDIES.
   In addition to any other rights set out elsewhere in this franchise, the
city reserves the right to declare a forfeiture of the franchise, subject to a
45-day right to cure, and all of the franchisee’s rights arising thereunder in
the event that the franchisee violates any material provision of the franchise,
including, but not limited to, failing to pay or any suspension of the
franchisee’s payments of franchise fees to the city under this franchise,
failure by the franchisee to submit timely reports regarding the calculation of
its gross revenues-based franchise fees to the city, failure to maintain the
liability insurance and/or bonds required under this franchise, or failure to
comply with all other state, federal or local laws as set forth in this
franchise. All remedies and penalties under this chapter, including termination
of the franchise, are cumulative, and the recovery or enforcement of one is not
a bar to the recovery or enforcement of any other such remedy or penalty. The
remedies and penalties contained in this chapter, including termination of the
franchise, are not exclusive, and the city reserves the right to enforce the
penal provisions of any ordinance or resolution, and to avail itself of any and
all remedies available at law or in equity. Failure to enforce shall not be
construed as a waiver of a breach of any term, condition or obligation imposed
upon the franchisee by, or pursuant to, this chapter. A specific waiver of a
particular breach of any term, condition or obligation imposed upon the
franchisee by, or pursuant to, this chapter, or the acceptance of any payment
due, shall not be waiver of any other or subsequent or future breach of the
same or of any other term, condition or obligation itself.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.16 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any of the provisions of this franchise are determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, that
provision shall be severed from the remainder of this franchise so as not to
cause the invalidity or unenforceability of the remainder of this franchise.
All remaining provisions of this franchise shall continue in full force and
effect. If any provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope and breadth,
such provisions shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope and breadth
permitted by law.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.17 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
   This franchise is binding upon and will inure to the benefit of all parties
hereto, their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
The franchisee, however, shall not make any assignment without the written
consent of the city, and any assignment made without the city’s consent shall
be null and void; provided, however, that nothing in this franchise requires
the city’s consent for any sale, lease, mortgage, assignment, merger or other
transfer to entities that control, are controlled by, or under the common
control of the franchisee. Any transfer of the franchisee’s assets to another
carrier that is approved by the Oregon Public Utilities Commission will receive
the city’s automatic approval.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.18 NOTICES. 
   Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice or
response required by this franchise to be served upon the city or the
franchisee shall be in writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to
the required party when placed in a properly sealed and correctly addressed
envelope:
   (A)   Upon receipt when hand delivered with receipt/acknowledgment;
   (B)   Upon receipt when sent certified, registered mail; or
   (C)   (1)   Within 5 business days after having been posted in the regular
mail to the following addresses:
         (a)   For the city:
            The City of Banks
            Attn: City Manager
            13680 NW Main Street
            Banks, OR 97106
            Phone: (503) 324-5112
            Email: jbecker@cityofbanks.org
         (b)   For the franchisee:
            Ziply Fiber Northwest, LLC
            Attn: Legal Department
            135 Lake Street South, Suite 155
            Kirkland, WA 98033
            Phone: (503) 431-0458
            Email: legal@ziply.com
      (2)   The city and the franchisee may designate other addresses from time
to time by giving notice to the other in the manner provided for in this
section.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.19 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Within 30 days from the date the City Council passes an ordinance approving
this franchise, the franchisee shall file with the city its written
unconditional acceptance of this franchise and all of its terms. This franchise
shall be effective as of September 8, 2022, if the franchisee provides the city
with its written unconditional acceptance as required in this section. In the
event the franchisee fails to do so, this chapter shall be void.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)
§ 103.20 REPEAL OF PRIOR FRANCHISES. 
   All prior franchises with the franchisee’s predecessors are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2022-07-01, passed 8-9-2022)   
CHAPTER 104: SWATCO FRANCHISE
Section
   
104.01   Title
   
104.02   Purpose, policy, scope
   
104.03   Definitions
   
104.04   Franchise
   
104.05   Franchise term
   
104.06   Franchise requirements and exceptions
   
104.07   Franchise fee
   
104.08   Franchisee responsibility
   
104.09   Rates
   
104.10   Suspension, modification or revocation of franchise
   
104.11   Services to be provided; when such service may be interrupted or
terminated
   
104.12   Public responsibility
   
104.13   Franchisee service requirements
   
104.14   General offenses
   
104.15   Violation - penalty
   
104.16   Severability
   
104.17   Emergency clause
   
Appendix A:   Recycling Service Regulations
   
Appendix B:   Schedule A Can/Cart Rate Schedule
§ 104.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Solid Waste Management Ordinance” and
may be referred to herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.02 PURPOSE, POLICY, SCOPE.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the City of Banks to regulate
solid waste management by:
   (A)   Insuring safe, economical, and comprehensive solid waste service;
   (B)   Insuring service rates and charges that are just and reasonable and
adequate to provide necessary public service;
   (C)   Prohibiting rate preference and other discriminatory practices;
   (D)   Providing technologically and economically feasible resource recovery
by and through the franchisee;
   (E)   Prohibiting any person or persons from providing solid waste
management or recycling services for compensation within the City of Banks,
except as provided in this chapter; and
   (F)   Providing solid waste collection, transportation, disposal and
recycling services consistent with the Washington County Wasteshed Waste
Reduction Intergovernmental Agreement.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, or where a
term is defined below, the definitions appearing in O.R.S. 459.005 and
regulations promulgated thereunder are applicable to this chapter. The singular
includes the plural and vice versa. As used in this chapter, the following
words shall be defined as follows:
   CALLBACK FEE. A flat rate charge which may be assessed to a customer where,
due to no fault whatsoever of the franchisee, a customer has requested a
collection truck to return on the regular service day to pick up refuse
remaining at the premise after the regular pick up time of that customer.
Callback fees do not apply to missed containers that were at the appointed
location at the designated time, nor to clean up refuse spilled or strewn by
the employees or equipment of the franchisee.
   CITY. The City of Banks. Where the city limits are extended, the city shall
include such extended geographic boundaries, even where this extension occurs
after the effective date of this chapter.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Banks.
   COMPENSATION. Compensation includes:
      (1)   Any type of compensation paid for service including, without
limitation, rent lease payments and other direct or indirect provision of
payment of money, goods, services or benefits by tenants, lessees, occupants or
similarly situated persons to the property owner or landlord of the property
being rented or leased;
      (2)   The exchange of service between persons, except that compensation
does not include the benefits, incidental advantages or tax advantages
resulting from the donation of services for any form of solid waste exempted by
this chapter; and
      (3)   The flow of consideration from the person owning or possessing the
solid waste or recyclable material to the person providing the service to the
person owning or possessing the solid waste or recyclable material.
   DROP BOX SERVICE. Service of self-contained containers with a capacity of 10
cubic yards or more that are hauled directly to a disposal or transfer site
rather than emptied into a truck or other container for transport.
   EXTRA GARBAGE FEE. A variable rate charge which may be assessed to a
residential or commercial customer for refuse in addition to that contained in
the can associated with the type and class of service requested by the
customer. Such a fee, as established in Schedule A, is measured in 20-gallon
volume increments or any part thereof, unless the extra garbage is contained in
the same type of container as associated with the type and class of service
normally subscribed to by the customer.
   FRANCHISEE. The person or persons, to whom a franchise is granted by the
City Council pursuant to this chapter. A franchise may be delineated as to the
form or geographic boundaries of service to be provided or by both the form and
geographic boundary. Such franchise shall grant exclusive rights to provide
service and solid waste management service for compensation.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenue received from providing solid waste management
services under this chapter.
   MINI-CAN. A class of residential garbage service using a specially designed,
designated or marked can containing on a regular basis, no more than 20 gallons
of refuse.
   MIXED SCRAP PAPER. This class of recyclable paper includes junk mail, copy
and fax paper, colored and white writing paper, computer paper, tablet and note
paper, construction paper, file folders, chipboard (e.g., cereal, cracker and
potato chip boxes), shoe and gift boxes, paper towel and toilet paper tubes,
paper egg cartons, envelopes, greeting cards, all-paper gift wrap, coupons,
brochures, bill inserts, Post-it Notes, paper labels from tin cans or bottles,
non-draft paper bags, and other household paper products that may from time to
time be administratively added to this class by the Council.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, trust, firm,
estate or other public or private legal entity.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Except as otherwise included by specific reference
herein, recyclable materials shall mean any materials or groups of materials
that can normally be collected and sold for recycling at a net cost equal to or
less than the cost of collection and disposal of the same material. All
recyclable material on the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ)
principal list of recyclable materials for the Washington County Wasteshed, as
may from time to time be amended, shall be considered recyclable materials.
Demolition and construction wastes shall be considered recyclable materials to
the extent that any such materials meet the cost effectiveness test of this
section. Recyclable materials included in the curbside collection program of
the City include: aluminum cans, corrugated cardboard and kraft (brown) paper
bags, glass bottles and jars, magazines, motor oil, newspapers, scrap metal,
mixed scrap paper, yard debris and “tin” (steel) cans (including aerosol cans
as approved by DEQ).
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining useful material or energy
resource from solid waste, including energy recovery, material recovery,
recycling and reuse of solid waste.
   SERVICE. The collection, transportation or disposal of, or the resource
recovery from, waste of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, tires, equipment and furniture;
commercial, industrial, unrecyclable demolition and construction wastes;
discarded or abandoned vehicles or parts thereof; discarded home or industrial
appliances; manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, infectious
wastes, and other wastes, but the term does not include:
      (1)   Hazardous waste as defined in O.R.S. 466.005.
      (2)   Materials used for fertilizer or for other productive purposes on
which are salvageable for use as such materials are used on land in
agricultural operation and the growing or harvesting of crops and the raising
of fowls or animals.
      (3)   Beverage containers, subject to reuse or refund provisions,
contained in O.R.S. 459A.700 to 459A.740.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES. The prevention or reduction of solid waste;
management of the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization,
processing and final disposal of solid waste; or resource recovery from solid
waste; and facilities necessary or convenient to such activities.
   WASTE. Useless or discarded materials.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2011-01-01, passed 1-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.04 FRANCHISE.
   (A)   There is hereby granted to SWATCO Sanitary Service, Inc., hereinafter
called the “franchisee,” the exclusive right, franchise and privilege to
provide solid waste management services and recycling services and to use the
public streets of the City of Banks for transportation necessary to provide
those services. Except as otherwise specifically provided by this chapter, no
person other than a franchisee shall provide, offer to provide or solicit
customers for providing service or solid waste management service for
compensation.
   (B)   Any future adjustments in the service area boundaries specified herein
shall be made by the City Council only after advanced written notice is given
to each affected franchisee at least 15 days prior to the effective date of the
adjustment. A franchisee may request a hearing on any future adjustments in the
service area boundaries, but such request for a hearing before the City Council
shall be made within 15 days of the receipt of the notice from the city, and
the request for hearing shall be in writing to the City Council of the City of
Banks. The Council’s decision shall be final, subject to judicial review.
   (C)   In the event of annexation by the City of Banks, solid waste
management services in the area affected shall continue to be provided by the
collector providing services in the annexed area at the time of annexation.
Those services shall be similarly subject to the conditions of operation
established in this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.05 FRANCHISE TERM.
   (A)   The rights, privilege and franchise hereby granted shall be for a
period of 5 years from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2017. The franchise
may be renewed for an additional 5 years, from January 1, 2018 through December
31, 2022 and for additional 5-year periods thereafter so long as the franchisee
is in compliance with the terms of this chapter. The franchise agreement shall
be reviewed and perhaps updated at least in October 2017 and every 5 years
thereafter.
   (B)   Unless grounds exist for suspensions, modification or revocation of
the franchise under §
104.10, this franchise shall be considered renewed for an additional 5 years
unless at least 30 days prior to January 1 of any year the city notifies the
franchise of an intent to terminate the franchise. Upon giving such notice of
termination, the franchisee shall have a franchise that will terminate 5 years
from the date of notice of termination. In the event the franchisee desires to
terminate service given under the terms of this franchise agreement then it
shall give not less than 2 years notice of intent to terminate service and
obligations under the franchise.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.06 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter is to be construed to prevent any person from
hauling that person’s own solid waste in a lawful manner. Any person hauling
solid waste over the streets of Banks shall be required to convey the same in a
covered or tightly closed vehicle to prevent the scattering of the same upon
the streets of the City, and in the event that wet solid waste or liquids are
hauled, they shall be hauled in containers and in a manner that will prevent
them from spilling, leaking or dropping upon the streets of the city. No person
will be permitted to transport waste or solid waste or perform solid waste
management services for another person for compensation. The following is
allowed:
   (A)   The collection, transportation and reuse of repairable or cleanable
discards by private charitable organizations regularly engaged in such business
or activity, including but not limited to Salvation Army, Goodwill Industries,
Boy and Girl Scouts, and similar nonprofit organizations. The Council may, by
resolution, regulate or require registration of such activity.
   (B)   The collection by local non-profit organizations of recyclable
materials for fund-raising purposes. The Council may, by resolution, regulate
or require registration of such activity.
   (C)   The occasional removal of solid waste by a landlord from a premise
when a tenant has moved from the premises and abandoned the solid waste.
   (D)   Collection, storage, transportation or disposal of waste or solid
waste by agencies of the federal government.
   (E)   Transportation of waste or solid waste, through the city when the same
is neither collected nor stored within the city.
   (F)   Collection and transportation of dead livestock, vegetable and animal
solid and semi-solid fats and oils, sewage sludge, septic tank and cesspool
pumping or other sludge.
   (G)   Motor vehicle wrecker services collecting, transporting, disposing or
using motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts and licensed pursuant to O.R.S.
481.345 et seq.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.07 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   In consideration of such privilege, right and exclusive franchise,
each franchisee shall pay to the City of Banks each fiscal year during the life
of this franchise beginning January 1, 2013, an annual fee derived from revenue
received by that franchise from solid waste management service within the
boundaries of the City of Banks. The franchise fee shall be 3% of gross
revenues, and shall not be levied on any revenue derived from recycling.
   (B)   The franchise fee required in division (A) above shall be paid
quarterly, and shall be due and payable within 45 days of the end of the
calendar quarter. Accompanying the payment described above, each franchisee
shall file with the Recorder of the City of Banks a statement showing their
amount of the gross revenues and the amount of recycled revenues received by
that company within the City of Banks for the calendar quarter immediately
preceding the calendar quarter in which such statement is filed.
   (C)   If controversy arises as to the amount of gross revenue within the
meaning of this chapter, the franchisee agrees to have its books and accounts
audited by a certified public accountant, and the report of the certified
public accountant shall be deemed to be the correct amount. Any difference of
payment due either to the city or to a franchisee or through error or otherwise
shall be payable within 15 days of the discovery or determination of the error.
   (D)   Should any franchisee fail or neglect, for 30 days after any quarterly
payment shall become due and payable, to make the quarterly payments, the City
of Banks, by its properly constituted authorities, may charge interest
retroactive to the due date, and at a rate of 9% per annum, and may at its
option either continue this franchise in force and proceed by suit or action to
collect the payment, or declare a forfeiture of this franchise because of the
failure to make payment, but without waiving its right to collect earned
franchise payments, and interest.
   (E)   Franchise records, utilizing a recognized bookkeeping system, showing
the gross receiptsresulting from the solid waste service conducted under this
ordinance, shall be open at all times for audit by authorized personnel
designated by the Mayor, upon reasonable advance notice to the franchisee.
Willful misrepresentation of gross receipts by a franchisee shall be cause for
revocation of the franchise pursuant to §
104.10.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.08 FRANCHISEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The franchisee shall dispose of solid waste collected at a site
authorized by law, and recover resources from the solid waste in compliance
with O.R.S. Chapters 459 and 459A and any rules or regulations adopted pursuant
to such statute.
   (B)   The franchisee shall provide sufficient collection vehicles,
containers, facilities, personnel and finances to provide all types of
necessary service and solid waste management service; but where necessary, the
franchisee may subcontract with others to provide certain types of specialized
service in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, all vehicles used by franchisee in the
collection or transportation of waste shall be equipped with a metal body of
the compactor type that is considered of a type for normal best practices for
waste management industry standards. If a franchisee uses a specialty designed
motorized local collection vehicle for transporting solid waste over short
distances from residential or commercial stops to waiting trucks, the container
portion of such vehicle shall be equipped with a cover, adequate to prevent
scattering of the load. If any pickup truck or open bed truck is used by a
franchisee, the load shall be covered with an adequate cover to prevent
scattering of the load. All vehicles shall be operated in conformity with all
ordinances of the city. All vehicles shall be properly licensed, registered,
and equipped in compliance with the motor vehicle laws of the State of Oregon.
   (D)   Each franchisee shall make collections of solid waste throughout the
business areas of the city as required by the City Council and at least
weeklycollections in all of the residential districts of the city in accordance
with the service areas established herein. The collection of offensive or wet
solid waste in the business districts shall be completed by the hour of 11:00
a.m. on each collection day. In the event a legal holiday falls on normal
collection days, the franchisee shall have the option to collect the solid
waste from all commercial establishments having solid waste which may become
foul or offensive by being kept over the ensuing holiday, between the hours of
5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on all days which precedes the legal holiday or to
collect the solid waste on the holiday. In addition to the foregoing, each
franchisee is to respond to all calls for special hauling within three days
from the date of receiving the call. Each franchisee shall perform all of such
work under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the city and agrees that
the franchisee will comply with all of the solid waste regulations of the city,
Washington County and the State of Oregon.
   (E)   The franchisee shall submit to the city an annual financial report,
rate review and a written report on the company’s activities during the
reporting period. The written report shall include a synopsis of the operating
year, a description of the measures they have taken in the preceding year to
make their operation more efficient, a listing of the efficiency measures,
which the franchisee proposes to take in the next year, and such other
information as requested by the city. All information shall be on a calendar
year basis and shall be submitted to the city no later than May 15 of each
year.
   (F)   Each franchisee shall provide the opportunity to recycle in accordance
with O.R.S. 459A.005 through 459A.085 and O.R.S. 459.250. In addition, each
franchisee shall comply with any and all statutes adopted by the Oregon
legislature relating to recycling and waste reduction and with rules and
regulations adopted by the Department of Environmental Quality. The City
Council may adopt regulations and policies from time to time setting forth
conditions for recycling services to be provided by the franchisee (
Appendix A).
   (G)   Franchisee agrees and covenants to indemnify, defend and hold the
city, its officers, agents and employees, harmless from any claim for injury,
damage, loss, liability, cost or expense, including court and appeal costs and
attorney fees or expenses, arising from any casualty or accident to person or
party by reason of any act done under this franchise, by or for franchisee, its
officers, agents or employees, or by reason of any neglect or omission of
franchisee to keep its equipment or operating system in safe condition.
Franchisee shall consult and cooperate with the city while conducting its
defense of the city.
      (1)   Franchisee also hereby agrees to indemnify the city for any
damages, claims, additional costs or expenses assessed against or payable by
the city arising out of or resulting, directly or indirectly, from franchisee's
failure to conduct its business operations in accordance with federal, state or
local laws government such operation, unless franchisee's failure arises
directly from the city's negligence or willful misconduct.
   (H)   The franchisee shall maintain public liability and property damage
insurance that protects the franchisee and the city and its officers, agents,
employees, and if applicable, the recycling district designated by the city
from any and all claims referred to in divisions (G) and (G)(1) above. This
insurance shall include personal and advertising injury liability, products and
completed operations. Coverage may be written in combination with automobile
liability insurance (with separate limits). Coverage shall be written on an
occurrence basis combined single limit per occurrence shall not be less than
$1,000,000. Each annual aggregate limit shall not be less than $2,000,000. The
franchisee shall obtain, and keep in effect commercial automobile liability
insurance covering all owned, non-owned or hired vehicles. Single limit per
occurrence shall not be less than $1,000,000. The limits of insurance shall be
subject to statutory changes as to the maximum limits of liability imposed on
municipalities of the State of Oregon during the term of the franchise.
      (1)   The insurance shall be without prejudice to coverage otherwise
existing and shall name as additional insured the city and its officers, agents
and employees. Notwithstanding the naming of the additional insureds, the
insurance shall protect each insured in the same manner as though a separate
policy had been issued to each, but nothing herein shall operate to increase
the insurer’s liability as set forth elsewhere in the policy beyond the amount
or amounts for which the insurer would have been liable if only one person or
interest had been named as insured. The coverage must apply as to claims
between insureds on the policy.
      (2)   The insurance shall provide that the insurance shall not be
canceled or materially altered without 30 days written notice first being given
to the City Auditor and the Bureau of Environmental Services. If the insurance
is canceled or materially altered within the term of this franchise, franchisee
shall provide a new policy with the amounts required, for the duration of the
franchise.
      (3)   The franchisee shall maintain on file with the City Recorder a
certificate of insurance certifying the coverage required above. The adequacy
of the insurance shall be subject to the approval of the City Attorney as
directed by the City Council. Failure to maintain liability insurance shall be
cause for conditional forfeiture of this franchise by the city.
         (a)   The alternative to providing a certificate of insurance to the
city, certifying liability insurance coverage as required above, franchisee may
provide the city with a statement regarding its self-insurance. Franchisee's
self-insurance shall provide the same amount and scope of protection for its
officers, agents and employees, as otherwise provided under this section. The
adequacy of the self-insurance under the terms of the section shall be subject
to the City Attorney's review and approval as directed by the City Council.
Failure to maintain adequate self-insurance under this paragraph shall be cause
for conditional forfeiture of this franchise by the city.
      (I)   The franchisee shall perform services consistent with the city's
duties under the Washington County Wasteshed Waste Reduction Intergovernmental
Agreement.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.09 RATES.
   (A)   Rates for service shall be approved by resolution. The rates to be
charged to all persons, firms or corporations by each franchisee shall be
reasonable and uniform, taking into consideration the service rendered, the
franchisee’s costs to provide service, a reasonable rate of return to the
franchisee, and other factors described herein and otherwise deemed by the
Council to be relevant.
   (B)   The maximum rates for various classifications of service that the
franchisee can charge customers shall be established, and may be amended from
time to time, by Council resolution, following a public hearing for all such
rate adjustment requests.
   (C)   In determining whether a change in rates is appropriate, the Council
shall consider the following and any other pertinent factors:
      (1)   Substantial fulfillment of all material requirements of the
franchise by the franchisee;
      (2)   Quality of service with the number an type of service complaints,
and responses to these complaints serving as an indicator of quality of
service;
      (3)   Prevailing rates for comparable services in Washington County and
in other comparable cities;
      (4)   Franchisee operating margin, financial investment and equity, as
compared to businesses of equivalent risk. The franchisee, upon request from
the Council, shall provide all information necessary to determine accurately
revenues and costs of services.
      (5)   Performance of franchisee in increasing the efficiency of service.
      (6)   Net cost of providing recycling services, including educational and
promotional costs for such service.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2023-10-01, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 104.10 SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   Should franchisee fail, neglect or refuse to fulfill any or all of the terms
and stipulations of the franchise to be by them performed, then the City of
Banks shall have the right to cancel and annul this franchise as it applies to
the offending franchisee, to delete the offender, or offenders, from this
franchise. Before any cancellation, or deletion, the Council shall service upon
the offending franchisee a written notice setting forth wherein the franchisee
has failed in its duties as set forth in this chapter and fixing a time not
less than 10 days after the service of the notice when the matter will be heard
before the City Council or a hearings officer designated by the city, as the
City Council may deem appropriate under the circumstances. At the hearing, the
franchisee shall have the right to be present in person and to be represented
by counsel and to present proper witnesses and evidence concerning the matter.
The city may also in like manner present proper witnesses and evidence it may
deem advisable. All witnesses shall be heard under oath and may be cross-
examined by the franchisee or its representative; and the procedure shall, as
nearly as practicable, follow the procedure in a trial of matters before equity
courts of Oregon. The findings of the City Council or a hearings officer
designated by the city, as the case might be, shall be final, subject to
judicial review.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.11 SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED; WHEN SUCH SERVICE MAY BE INTERRUPTED OR
TERMINATED.
   (A)   The franchisee shall provide service to any customer within the
service area of that franchisee upon request, in compliance with
Appendix A. However, the franchisee may refuse to provide service or may
terminate service to those customers who have failed to make full payment of
amounts billed within 45 days of the billing date. The franchisee shall send
any refusal to provide service to the customer in written form, stating the
reason for the refusal. Any termination of service shall be preceded by a
written notice to the customer mailed at least 15 days prior to actual
termination of service. The customer may appeal to the city the amount billed
as not conforming to Schedule A (see
Appendix B). Such appeal shall be considered by the City Council and shall
delay termination of service until 20 days after determination by the Council
of whether the amount does conform to Schedule A. The findings and decisions of
the Council shall be final, subject to judicial review. The franchisee may
charge late penalties for non-payment after 30 days from the billing date and
may collect a fee for checks returned from a bank or other financial
institution for reason of insufficient funds. A schedule of proposed late
penalties must be submitted to and receive approval of the City Council before
such penalties may be charged by any franchisee. The fee allowed for
insufficient fund check returns is contained in Schedule A.
   (B)   In order to assure adequate service for all customers, the franchisee
shall, whenever feasible and practical, provide service in the form requested
by the customer where that level of service is contained in Schedule A.
However, it is recognized that it will not be practical or feasible for each of
the franchisees to provide containers of all sizes listed in Schedule A at all
times. It is sufficient that the franchisee provide adequate and practical
container sizes considering the nature of the community serviced and
considering the importance of increasing the efficiency of service. Whenever it
is not feasible or practical to provide the service requested by the customer,
the franchisee shall state clearly in writing to the customer the reasons that
the service in that form cannot be provided and shall suggest an alternative
level of service.
   (C)   The franchisee agrees, as a condition of this franchise, that whenever
the City Council finds that the failure of service or threatened failure of
service would result in creation of an immediate and serious health hazard or
serious public nuisance, the City Council may, after a minimum of 24 hours
actual notice to the franchisee and a public hearing if the franchisee requests
it, provide or authorize another person to temporarily provide the service or
to use and operate the land, facilities and equipment (other than vehicles and
trucks) of the franchisee to provide emergency service. If a public hearing is
requested by the franchisee, it may be held immediately by the City Council
after compliance with the minimum notice requirements for such meetings
established by the Oregon Public Meetings Law. The City Council shall return
any seized property and business upon abatement of the actual or threatened
interception of service, and after payment to the city for any net cost
incurred in the operation of the sold waste service.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.12 PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The franchisee, the city and the public shall comply with the
provisions of state law, including but not limited to O.R.S. Chapter 459,
O.R.S. Chapter 659A, O.R.S. Chapter 654 (Employment Safety and Health), and
O.R.S. 656 (Workers Compensation) as well as the regulations promulgated
pursuant thereto by the Department of Environmental Quality, the Workers’
Compensation Department, and the State Accident Insurance Fund. The rules for
the administration of the Oregon Safe Employment Act and the Oregon
Occupational Safety and Health Code shall be complied with. The following
requirements shall pertain to service under this chapter;
      (1)   No solid waste receptacle designed for manual collection service
shall exceed 32 gallons in size or weigh more than 60 pounds gross loaded
weight. Thirty-five gallon carts may be substituted for 32 gallon can at the
discretion of the franchisee. Cans shall be tapered, so they are larger at the
top, shall have tight fitting lids, be leakproof, and have bales or handles at
the bottom. Sunken cans or containers shall not be installed. No cart designed
for mechanical collection shall exceed 60 pounds gross content weight for a 35-
gallon carts, 120 pounds gross content weight for a 60-gallon cart or 180
pounds gross content weight for a 90-gallon cart.
      (2)   To protect against injury to employees of the franchisee and to
protect against rodent and fire danger, cans shall be rigid and composed of
materials that resist splitting or cracking from changes in weather conditions.
      (3)   The customer shall provide safe access to the pick-up point so as
not to jeopardize the persons or equipment supplying service or the motoring
public.
      (4)   All solid waste located, placed or deposited in a can, container,
drop box or receptacle provided by the franchisee to a customer or placed out
by the customer for collection by the franchisee shall belong to the
franchisee.
   (B)   To protect the privacy, safety, pets and security of the customer, and
to prevent unnecessary physical and legal risk to the franchisee and its
employees, a residential customer shall place the container to be emptied
outside any locked or latched gate and outside any garage or other building.
Nothing contained herein shall prevent or discourage the use of site obscuring
waste receptacle screening for commercial or industrial containers or drop
boxes.
   (C)   Stationary compactors for handling solid waste shall comply with
applicable federal and state safety regulations. No such compactor shall be
loaded so as to exceed the safe loading design limit or operation limit of the
collection vehicles used by the franchisee. A person who wishes services for a
compactor shall, prior to acquisition of such compactor, inquire of the
franchisee as to compatibility with franchisee’s equipment or equipment that
the franchisee is willing to acquire.
   (D)   Putrescible solid waste shall be removed from the premises of a
customer at regular intervals not to exceed 7 days.
   (E)   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter, any person who
receives service shall be responsible for payment for said service.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.13 FRANCHISEE SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This franchise shall not be assignable by any franchisee or by any
other person without the written consent of the City Council, and not then
until the assignee has filed his or her acceptance and agreement to abide by
the terms hereof with the City Recorder.
   (B)   Each franchisee shall furnish an acceptable performance bond by an
acceptable surety company in the amount of $5,000. The performance bond is
conditioned upon the faithful performance of all the obligations contained
herein with the premium for such bond to be paid by the franchisee furnishing
the bond.
   (C)   Franchisee shall respond to any customer complaint on service within 7
days or such otherreasonable time that is necessary under the particular
circumstances.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.14 GENERAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   A person may not:
      (1)   Without the permission of the owner or generator of recyclable
material, take recyclable materials set out to be collected by a person
authorized by the city to provide collection service for that recyclable
material, except in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   Remove any recyclable material from a container box, collection
vehicle, depot or other receptacle for the accumulation or storage of
recyclable material without permission of the owner of the receptacle.
      (3)   Mix source separated recyclable material with solid waste in any
vehicle, box, container, or receptacle used in solid waste collection or
disposal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this chapter. Any person hauling solid waste or providing solid waste
management services in violation of the terms of this ordinance, upon
conviction, may be fined not more than $250. Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.15 VIOLATION - PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon conviction of any person for violation of §
104.14, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day any person shall be in violation of §
104.14 of this code shall be deemed a separate offense. Each act in violation
of the provisions of §
104.14 shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who has been convicted of a violation of §
104.14 and who is found by a court to have been formerly convicted of such a
violation within 2 years preceding the date of the alleged violation may be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.
   (D)   Any person with a current, valid franchise shall, in addition to all
other legal rights and remedies have a cause of action, including claims for
damages and injunctive relief, for violation of §
104.14 of this chapter in any court of competent jurisdiction. The prevailing
party in any such action shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs,
including attorney's fees and expert witness fees, at the trial court and any
appellate level.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.16 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 104.17 EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   This chapter being necessary to assure continued solid waste service
throughout the community for the immediate preservation of the peace, health
and safety of the City of Banks and its citizens, and this chapter shall become
effective 30 days after passage by the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
APPENDIX A: RECYCLING SERVICE REGULATIONS
RECYCLING SERVICE REGULATIONS
CITY OF BANKS
   A.   Franchisee shall provide the following services to all citizens of the
City of Banks:
   Provide weekly curbside collection of all recyclable materials contained on
the DEQ list of principal recyclable materials for Washington County for single
family residences and multifamily complexes of four units or less within the
service area of each franchisee; including but not limited to: aluminum cans,
corrugated cardboard and Kraft (brown) paper bags, glass bottles and jars,
magazines, motor oil, newspapers, scrap metal, mixed scrap paper, “tin” (steel)
cans (including aerosol cans as approved by DEQ), plastic containers (with
narrow necks).
      1.   Provide collection of recyclable materials from multifamily
complexes of over four units, commercial, industrial, institutional and
governmental generators at least once a month, or more often if required by
rules and regulations.
      2.   Provide a notice of the opportunity to recycle to all citizens that
includes recycling information and clear instructions on preparation of
recyclables for curbside collection and a phone number to call for information
regarding recycling collection service. Reminder notices shall be given to all
solid waste collection service customers every six months.
      3.   Provide necessary equipment and labor to collect and market all
recyclables on the DEQ list of principal recyclable materials for Washington
County.
      4.   Provide necessary equipment and labor to collect and market all
recyclables on the DEQ list of principal recyclable materials for Washington
County.
      5.   Provide on-call collection of appliances (a franchisee may charge a
minimal fee for this service, as set by the Council) and bulk quantities of
recyclable materials. However, citizens will be encouraged to bring appliances
to a recycling collection drop-off center at the City Clean-up Day rather than
to use the on-call system of collection for appliances. Citizens will be
limited to discarding four appliances per household on an annual basis at such
Clean-up Day drop-off center.
      6.   Cooperate with the City and with other governmental agencies in
educational and promotional activities to increase public participation in
recycling.
   B.   A franchisee shall not be required to collect source separated
recyclable materials which have not been correctly prepared.
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE A CAN/CART RATE SCHEDULE
 
RESIDENTIAL CAN/CART RATES PER MONTH
               CURB   YARD
20 GALLON CAN  $20.95 $24.20
32 GALLON CAN  $22.75 $26.00
60 GALLON CART $33.05 N/A
90 GALLON CART $39.15 N/A
 
 
COMMERCIAL CAN/CART RATES PER MONTH
               CURB   YARD
20 GALLON CAN  $20.95 $24.20
32 GALLON CAN  $22.75 $26.00
60 GALLON CART $33.05 N/A
90 GALLON CART $39.15 N/A
 
NOTE:      CURB RATE APPLIES BETWEEN 0' - 5' OF CURB
      YARD RATE APPLIES BETWEEN 5 AND 50' OF CURB
SPECIAL SERVICE RATES
SPECIAL SERVICE RATES
MONTHLY RECYCLING ONLY             $6.90 (Monthly)
WILL CALL CHARGE PER CAN:           
20 OR 32 GALLON CAN                $11.30 PER MONTH PLUS $5.12 PER TIP
INCLUDES RECYCLING AND YARD DEBRIS
OCCASIONAL EXTRA BAG/CAN           $6.66 32G CAN OR BAG
EXTRA YARD CAN OR BAG              $3.20
EXTRA OVER THE TOP                 $3.05 LID NOT CLOSED
EXTRA BAG ON TOP                   $4.05 WHITE KITCHEN BAG 10G SIZE
CALL BACKS                         $14.76
NSF CHARGE                         $30.00
REINSTATEMENT FEE                  $25.00
UNSCHEDULED SERVICES               $75 PER HOUR PLUS DISPOSAL
DISTANCE CHARGE                    $0.05/FOOT AFTER FIRST 50'
                                   MAXIMUM $20
 
DROP BOX RATE SCHEDULE
NON-COMPACTED
 RATE*
DROP BOX RATE SCHEDULE
NON-COMPACTED
                   RATE*
DELIVERY FEE 10-40 $31.50
HAUL FEES           
10 YARD - 20 YARD  $121.00
30 YARD            $144.00
40 YARD            $179.00
Delivery fee applies to non-repeat customers for first time delivery of the
drop box
   COMPACTED
10 YARD - 20 YARD  $164.00
30 YARD            $187.00
40 YARD            $193.00
 
 
   Weekend service for drop boxes shall be 1.5 times the above rate and shall
be arranged with the collector prior to service.
   Demurrage is a daily rental fee after 48 hours
   10 YARD - 20 $5.73/DAY
YARD
   30 YARD      $7.53/DAY
   40 YARD      $8.47/DAY
   *Total fee for service includes, rate + disposal fee + 3% city franchise +
mileage charge + any penalties that may be incurred due to overweight drop
boxes.
   Mileage charge is $2.83 per haul mile from pickup of the box containing
material to the nearest authorized disposal site by public highway.
 
 
OCCASIONAL CONTAINERS/ MINI BOX RATE
1.5 YARD                        $85.50
2 YARD                          $90.95
3 YARD                          $101.80
4 YARD                          $112.65
 
COMMERCIAL CONTAINER RATES
 ONE TWO THREE FOUR FIVE SIX
               ONE     TWO     THREE     FOUR      FIVE      SIX
1 YARD         $86.56  $164.48 $227.61   $297.46   $359.56   N/A
SATURDAY       $95.42  $179.93 $248.74   $324.84   $393.15   $456.19
EACH ADDL CONT $78.54  $148.38 $194.79   $258.28   $317.13   N/A
SATURDAY       $85.83  $161.42 $210.99   $280.00   $343.37   $399.19
                                                        
1.5 YARDS      $118.61 $232.40 $321.03   $414.52   $507.43   $N/A
SATURDAY       $129.59 $253.74 $349.84   $450.94   $551.25   $545.54
EACH ADDL CONT $110.23 $208.64 $293.99   $378.43   $461.76   $N/A
SATURDAY       $120.00 $226.48 $318.69   $409.76   $499.07   $583.39
                                                        
2 YARDS        $156.59 $303.77 $419.28   $540.73   $661.07   N/A
SATURDAY       $171.06 $330.21 $456.19   $587.52   $717.32   $864.14
EACH ADDL CONT $143.75 $271.87 $369.45   $474.39   $578.13   N/A
SATURDAY       $156.11 $294.66 $399.19   $511.61   $622.39   $726.19
                                                        
3 YARDS        $191.71 $368.75 $532.82   $695.23   $842.68   N/A
SATURDAY       $208.30 $401.24 $579.28   $740.31   $912.51   $1,048.34
EACH ADDL CONT $177.53 $345.96 $491.58   $665.10   $787.35   N/A
SATURDAY       $192.82 $376.45 $547.31   $719.63   $886.63   $1,017.47
                                                        
4 YARDS        $252.08 $492.83 $720.96   $1,004.17 $1,142.81 N/A
SATURDAY       $272.99 $532.58 $778.14   $1,009.90 $1,229.44 $1,452.70
EACH ADDL CONT $239.72 $474.67 $702.87   $925.21   $1,126.26 N/A
SATURDAY       $259.48 $511.80 $757.40   $996.15   $1,210.64 $1,412.84
                                                        
5 YARDS        $304.65 $593.28 $878.28   $1,152.84 $1,409.01 N/A
SATURDAY       $324.34 $639.75 $946.39   $1,241.12 $1,512.76 $1,748.88
EACH ADDL CONT $292.67 $570.44 $844.37   $1,110.74 $1,369.89 N/A
SATURDAY       $315.23 $613.86 $907.73   $1,192.88 $1,469.86 $1,737.88
                                                        
6 YARDS        $342.29 $675.52 $999.70   $1,273.53 $1,620.90 N/A
SATURDAY       $368.34 $726.22 $1,073.65 $1,411.07 $1,737.83 $2,054.16
EACH ADDL CONT $333.23 $657.53 $967.44   $1,278.56 $1,576.90 N/A
SATURDAY       $358.15 $705.54 $1,042.78 $1,369.53 $1,687.53 $1,992.34
                                                        
8 YARDS        $432.43 $852.26 $1,260.19 $1,655.56 $2,040.55 N/A
SATURDAY       $463.54 $912.99 $1,348.46 $1,769.62 $2,178.96 $2,573.65
EACH ADDL CONT $420.17 $828.33 $1,224.49 $1,607.37 $1,980.22 N/A
SATURDAY       $449.68 $885.44 $1,307.50 $1,714.51 $2,110.15 $2,490.70
 
COMPACTED MATERIAL WILL BE CHARGED AT 2.5 TIMES THE ABOVE RATES
 
COMPACTOR CONTAINERS  
2 YARDS              $91.90 PER DUMP
3 YARDS              $137.90 PER DUMP
4 YARDS              $183.90 PER DUMP
 
(Ord. 2007-11-02, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 2010-04-01, passed 5-13-2010; Am.
Ord. 2012-11-01, passed 11-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10-03, passed 11-11-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
   
111.   PRIVILEGE TAX UPON UTILITIES
   
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
   
113.   GAMBLING AND SOCIAL GAMES
   
114.   ALARM PERMITS AND SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Purpose and scope
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Business license required
   
110.04   Application procedure and license fees
   
110.05   Additional requirements for mobile and temporary businesses
   
110.06   Business license denial or revocation
   
110.07   Violations
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to collect information about businesses
in the city and provide revenue for the expenses of a business license program
and other municipal purposes. The licensing and fee requirements prescribed in
this chapter are not regulatory.
   (B)   This chapter provides reasonable and necessary licensing requirements
for businesses, including transient merchants, temporary and mobile businesses
in order to:
      (1)   Protect the public health and safety;
      (2)   Maintain the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
streets, sidewalks and areas open to the public;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the peaceful enjoyment of residential
areas and anywhere that a transient merchant activity takes place; and
      (4)   Preserve, protect and enhance the economic, scenic, historic and
aesthetic values and objectives of the city.
   (C)   These licensing requirements are not intended to permit any violation
of the provisions of any other law or regulation.
   (D)   These licensing requirements shall apply to activities on private as
well as city-owned and leased property, including public rights-of-way.
   (E)   These licensing requirements shall not apply to sales conducted by
municipal, government, religious, charitable, educational or similar
organizations, provided that the sale is conducted on premises owned or leased
by the applicant for the regular conduct of its business or affairs.
   (F)   Exemption of a use from the provisions of this chapter shall not
exempt the use from other applicable provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall control the interpretation, administration
and enforcement of this chapter.
   BUSINESS. The sale or offering for sale any good, food, beverage or service
or the production, manufacture or processing of any sort of product that is
sold or intended for sale, except the following:
      (1)   Garage sales, yard sales, rummage sales or swap meets conducted on
private property, provided that the sale is not conducted over a period in
excess of four consecutive days nor more often than four times per calendar
year.
      (2)   Activities associated with a one-time, annual event or special
event for which a special event permit has been issued by the city and for
which all other applicable permits and licenses have been obtained.
      (3)   Farmers’ markets where producers of farm products raised or
produced in Oregon are sold in the city by a person or family who raised or
produced the commodity.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITORS. Any person who solicits the sale of any item or
service by traveling from home to home within the city seeking customers and
sales from residents.
   MOBILE BUSINESS. Any temporary business operated in the city without a fixed
location or structure or a structure that is not subject to the building code,
including food carts, trailers and trucks, and door-to-door solicitors.
   PERSON. Includes the singular and plural and any individual, firm,
partnership, limited liability corporation, domestic or foreign corporation,
doing business as (DBA) name, or any other legal entity. Each business entity
registered at a particular address and each business owned or operated by the
same entity shall obtain separate business licenses pursuant to this chapter.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. A business operating in the city on a temporary or
seasonal basis for fewer than 180 days in a 12-month period.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who operates or engages in a mobile business
activity, including the owner of the business and anyone actually engaged in a
mobile business.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 110.03 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except for those business activities that are specifically exempt
under this chapter, the following persons shall obtain a business license from
the city pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   Any person conducting, operating or carrying on a business anywhere
in the city for any length of time; and
      (2)   Any business, corporation or other entity registered with the
Oregon Secretary of State, Corporations Division with an address located in the
city.
   (B)   The following entities engaged in the activities described in this
section are exempt from the requirement to obtain a business license or pay a
business license fee:
      (1)   Religious, educational and charitable organizations that are
specifically exempt from taxation under the Federal Internal Revenue Code and
registered with the Oregon Secretary of State’s Office as a not for profit
corporation. Such organizations shall register with the city and obtain an
exemption certificate.
      (2)    Garage sales, yard sales, rummage sales or swap meets conducted on
private property, provided that the sale is not conducted over a period in
excess of four consecutive days nor more often than four times per calendar
year.
      (3)   Activities associated with a one-time event or special event for
which a special event permit has been issued by the City and for which all
other applicable permits and licenses have been obtained.
      (4)   Farmers’ markets where producers of farm products raised or
produced in Oregon are sold in the city by a person or family who raised or
produced the commodity. Such organizations shall register with the city and
obtain an exemption certificate.
      (5)   Any business activity specifically exempted by the city council
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person who is not otherwise required to obtain a business license
under this chapter may nonetheless obtain a city business license by completing
the appropriate form and paying the appropriate fee for such entities shown on
the city’s adopted fee schedule.
   (D)   Businesses conducted in or from a residential structure (a home
occupation) shall, in addition to obtaining a business license under this
chapter, also obtain land use approval for the home occupation under §
151.122 of the Banks Code of Ordinances.
   (E)   In addition to obtaining a business license under this chapter, all
new businesses and changes to existing businesses shall also obtain land use
approval for the business use, including site plan approval as required by the
city’s land use regulations.
   (F)   Any business that desires to use a portion of the public right-of-way,
including sidewalks, for business purposes shall seek and obtain specific
approval for that use through the site plan and any other land use review
procedure required by the city’s land use regulations.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   A business license shall be obtained and renewed by completing and
returning the form provided by the city manager, along with the license fee
prescribed by council resolution. Information required from each business
license applicant and renewal includes the name and principal place of
business, and name and address of the registered agent.
   (B)   Business entities that are exempt from the business license
requirement under this chapter shall complete a business license form and will
be issued an exemption certificate, but need not pay a fee.
   (C)   The city manager may deny a business license, or revoke a license that
has already been issued, for any of the following reasons. The city
manager’s decision to revoke or deny a business license may be appealed to the
city council pursuant to §
110.06:
      (1)   The application is for an unlawful business or activity or the
operator commits a crime as part of his or her business operation;
      (2)   The application form is not complete or contains untruthful or
incorrect information;
      (3)   The business entity fails to maintain compliance with all
applicable city regulations; or
      (4)   The business is operated in a way that causes or constitutes a
nuisance.
   (D)   Anyone wishing to transfer a current and valid business license to
another entity, change an address or revise any other information about the
business from what was previously stated on the last license renewal shall
submit to the city manager a written application, with accompanying fee as set
by council resolution.
   (E)   A business license shall be valid and effective from the date of
issuance until December 31st of the same year. License fees may be prorated by
one-half if the license is applied for after July 1.
   (F)   Business licenses shall expire on December 31st each year and shall be
renewed for the next year before January 15. The city will endeavor to send
renewal notices to all business license holders approximately two months before
expiration, but failure to receive a renewal notice shall not relieve a
business license holder from the obligation to renew the license. Business
licenses that are renewed later than January 31st shall be assessed a late fee
of $5 per month, beginning on February 1.
   (G)   Businesses conducted in or from a residential structure (a home
occupation) shall, in addition to obtaining a business license under this
chapter, also obtain land use approval for the home occupation under §
151.122 of the Banks Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 110.05 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE AND TEMPORARY BUSINESSES.
   In addition to all other business license and application requirements
stated in this chapter for businesses generally, mobile and temporary
businesses shall comply with the following:
   (A)   As part of the application, the mobile business shall provide the
name, legal address and driver’s license number of all people who will be
conducting business as a transient merchant in the city, vehicle license
numbers, and the dates or time period during which business will be conducted
in the city.
   (B)   The operator of a mobile or temporary business shall provide written
permission from the owner, leasing agent or person in charge of the property at
which the business will operate.
   (C)   No mobile or temporary business may conduct operations at a fixed
location for more than two hours at one time unless the location is approved by
the city as part of the business license.
   (D)   Any vehicle used in the operation of a mobile or temporary business
shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local regulations.
   (E)   At no time may a vehicle related to a mobile or temporary business
block the public right-of-way, obstruct a required intersection sight-distance
area, or block a fire access lane.
   (F)   If a mobile or temporary business uses electricity for operation, the
electrical connection shall be of a type that can be quickly disconnected and
must comply with all applicable laws, including National Electrical Code
Chapter 550 as administered by Washington County.
   (G)   A mobile or temporary business operator shall at all times comply with
all applicable city solid waste regulations. The operator of the business shall
be responsible for picking-up and disposing of litter left by the business’
customers and related business operations.
   (H)   A mobile or temporary business operation shall not occupy or block the
minimum parking spaces required for existing businesses or residences on the
subject property or adjacent properties under the Community Development Code, a
copy of which is available for public inspection at city hall.
   (I)   There shall be no water, sanitary sewer or storm drainage connections
between a mobile business operation and any utility systems.
   (J)   All buildings, vehicles, equipment and parking areas associated with a
mobile or temporary business shall be located on an improved surface, such as
asphalt or concrete or compacted gravel.
   (K)   (1)   Mobile and temporary businesses shall conduct business only
during the following hours:
         (a)   8:00 a.m. to midnight in commercial zones except within 50 feet
of a residential zone; and
         (b)   8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. in residential zones and in commercial
zones within 50 feet of a residential zone.
      (2)   Mobile business trucks or trailers shall not be parked over-night
in the public right-of-way.
   (L)   The city-issued business license shall be conspicuously displayed on
the truck, trailer or other vehicle used for the mobile business during the
hours of operation.
   (M)   A mobile business shall obtain and provide copies to the city of all
other state or county permits required for the business operations, including
food handler’s permits, county health inspection certificates and the like.
   (N)   Except for door-to-door solicitors, temporary businesses may operate
only within the public right-of-way or on property zoned for commercial use
pursuant to the city’s land use regulations, unless located on property owned
by the non-profit, tax exempt organization that is operating the business. Any
temporary business operating within the public right-of-way must be removed
from the right-of-way at night.
   (O)   Temporary businesses may obtain approval for a maximum of 60
consecutive days of business operation, with up to two additional 60-
consecutive day extensions, upon written request. Temporary business operations
shall not exceed 180 days in a 12-month period at the same site.
   (P)   Temporary structures, equipment, furniture and other stand-alone items
approved by the manager for conducting temporary business operations may be
placed within the operation area of the temporary business and remain on-site
throughout the period of operation. Although, mobile business trucks or
trailers shall not be parked over-night in the public right-of-way. All
temporary buildings, equipment, furniture, other stand-alone items and
merchandise shall be removed from the site at the end of business operation.
   (Q)   In addition to the other applicable requirements of this chapter, no
door-to-door solicitor may enter onto a residential property for the purpose of
solicitation or door-to-door sales when there is posted on the property a sign
stating “no solicitors” or “no solicitation” that is visible and readable from
the public right-of-way. No person other than the property owner may remove,
deface or destroy such a “no solicitation” sign.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 110.06 BUSINESS LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   The following procedures shall govern the denial or revocation of a business
license and an applicant’s remedies therefrom.
   (A)   Grounds for denial or revocation. A business license may be revoked or
denied if the operator or applicant:
      (1)   Is charges with and fails to contest or is conclusively determined
to be in violation of, two or more provisions of this chapter in a 12-month
period;
      (2)   Operates a business in a way that creates or constitutes a
nuisance; and/or
      (3)   Fails to supply the information required on the City’s business
license form or submits misleading or false information, or submitted
misleading or false information on a previous application.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   If the city determines that grounds for revocation of a business
license exist, a notice of revocation will be issued in writing and delivered
to the business licensee in a manner reasonably calculated to give notice,
including delivery by United States first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
address provided on the license application form.
      (2)   The revocation is effective 14 calendar days after issuance of the
notice unless the licensee files a written appeal with the city, after which
revocation would be effective if the licensee fails to appear at the appeal
hearing.
      (3)   Business license denial is effective upon issuance and may be
appealed within 14 days of issuance.
   (C)   Appeal. In the event of a business license revocation or denial, the
following appeal procedures shall apply:
      (1)   The licensee or applicant shall initiate the appeal by filing a
written notice appeal with the city manager no later than 14 calendar days
after issuance of the notice of revocation or denial.
      (2)   Upon filing of an appeal, the city manager will appoint a hearings
officer to hold an administrative hearing on the appeal.
      (3)   The hearings officer has the authority to administer oaths, take
the testimony of witnesses and prescribe procedures for conducting a hearing in
general conformity with O.R.S. Chapter 183.
      (4)   The appealing party or any other person the hearings officer deems
to have relevant evidence concerning the existence of grounds for revocation
will be allowed to present testimony and documentary evidence at the hearing.
      (5)   After considering the arguments and evidence, the hearings officer
will determine whether the city has established by a preponderance of the
evidence that grounds for revocation or denial of the business license exist
and issue a written decision containing findings of fact that address the
allegations contained in the notice of revocation or denial, such that if:
         (a)   Grounds for revocation or denial have been established by a
preponderance of the evidence, in which case the hearings officer shall affirm
the city manager’s decision; or
         (b)   Grounds for revocation or denial have not been established by a
preponderance of the evidence, in which case the proceedings shall end.
   (D)    Review of hearings officer decision by city council. Review of a
hearings officer decision will be decided by the city council according to the
following procedures:
      (1)   Review of hearings officer’s decision shall be initiated by filing
a written request for review with the city manager no later than 14 calendar
days after issuance of the hearings officer’s decision.
      (2)   The review is on the record created before the hearings officer and
no new evidence shall be allowed.
      (3)   The council will affirm the decision of the ehearings officer
unless it finds any of the following:
         (a)   The record does not contain substantial evidence to support the
hearings officer’s factual findings;
         (b)   The hearings officer misapplied or misinterpreted the applicable
law;
         (c)   The hearings officer committed a procedural error that
prejudiced the applicant’s right to a full and fair hearing; or
         (d)   The hearings officer’s decision is unconstitutional.
      (4)   The council will issue a written decision on the appeal.
      (5)   If the council affirms the decision of the hearings officer, the
license revocation or denial is immediately effective.
      (6)   The decision of the city council is conclusive and final.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
§ 110.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who fails to obtain a business license when one is required by
this chapter or violates any requirement of this Chapter or any other provision
of the Banks Code of Ordinances shall be subject to civil citation pursuant to
Chapter 37 (Civil Enforcement) of the Banks Code of Ordinances in addition to
any other means of enforcement available to the city before any court or
administrative body of competent jurisdiction. Upon a determination that a
person has violated any requirement or prohibition of this chapter, that person
shall be subject to a fine of up $500 per violation. Each day of violation,
event or occurrence may be deemed a separate citable and punishable offense.
(Ord. 2016-07-02, passed 8-9-2016)
CHAPTER 111: PRIVILEGE TAX UPON UTILITIES
Section
   
111.01   Privilege tax imposed
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Payment dates
   
111.04   Interest on late payments
   
111.05   Audits
   
111.06   Additional requirements
   
111.07   Appeals
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PRIVILEGE TAX IMPOSED.
   A privilege tax of 5% is imposed on the gross revenues of any utility that
has equipment in rights-of-way within the city. The amount of any privilege tax
due from a utility will be reduced by any franchise fee received by the city
from that utility.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms mean:
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible component, whether referred to singly or
collectively, installed, maintained, or operated by a utility.
   GROSS REVENUES. Revenues earned within the boundaries of the city less net
uncollectible amounts. GROSS REVENUES may be specifically limited by state or
federal law.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The space in, upon, above, along, across, over or under the
public streets, roads, highways, lanes, courts, ways, alleys, boulevards,
sidewalks, bicycle lanes, and places used or intended to be used by the general
public for travel.
   UTILITY. A utility as defined in O.R.S. 366.332.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 111.03 PAYMENT DATES.
   The privilege tax imposed in this chapter is due quarterly on or before the
15th day after the end of the preceding quarter (April 15, July 15, September
15, and January 15). The privilege tax must be paid to the city on or before
the due date for each quarter and must be accompanied by a written report. The
written report must be verified and executed by an officer or other authorized
representative of the utility. The report must contain an accurate statement of
the gross revenues from exchange access services for the period covered by the
payment.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS.
   If the privilege tax is not paid on or before the due date, 9% interest must
be paid on the tax from the date due to the date on which payment is received
by the city, compounded daily.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 AUDITS.
   (A)   The city has the right to conduct or have conducted an audit of gross
revenues as defined in this chapter to determine if the tax required by this
chapter has been paid by a utility.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a written request, a utility must provide the city
copies of documents requested by the city that are necessary to conduct an
audit. If the utility believes the requested document contains confidential
information that is not subject to public disclosure, the utility may mark the
documents as confidential and exempt from public disclosure. The city will not
disclose such documents to third parties unless such disclosure is required to
comply with state law.
   (C)   After an audit any undisputed under tax payment due the city or over
tax payment due the utility is payable 30 days after written notice of the
amount due.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 111.06 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A utility must obtain any permit required by the Municipal Code or any
other law, ordinance or resolution. Acceptance of privilege tax payments under
this chapter is not a waiver by the city of any other legal requirement.
   (B)   A utility must comply with all requirements of city ordinances,
resolutions and practices governing the use of rights-of-way.
   (C)   If a utility fails to pay the privilege tax under this chapter, fails
to obtain any permit or fails to comply with any city ordinance, resolution or
practice, the city may demand that the utility make the payment, obtain the
permit or comply with the ordinance, resolution or practice, or remove its
equipment from city rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 APPEALS.
   A utility that receives notice of a violation or that receives notice that a
fine has been imposed may appeal to the City Council by filing a written appeal
with the City Recorder within 10 days of receipt of the notice of violation or
fine. The appeal must state the reasons the utility does not believe a
violation has occurred or the reason it believes the fine is unreasonable. Upon
receipt of a timely appeal, the City Recorder will schedule an appeal hearing
before the City Council. The hearing will be set no less than 10 days after the
timely appeal is filed. The City Council will affirm the determination that a
violation occurred and impose a penalty or reverse that determination. If the
appeal challenges a penalty, the City Council will affirm or modify the
penalty.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A utility that violates any provision of this chapter may be ordered to pay
a fine of up to $1,000 for each day of the violation. The utility may also be
ordered to remove its equipment from city rights-of-way after the city gives
written notice of the violation and 30 days to remedy the violation. In the
alternative the utility may enter into a compliance agreement with the city.
The city retains authority to initiate legal action to enforce the requirements
of this chapter, and to waive or reduce any fine in its sole discretion.
(Ord. 2007-06-03, passed 6-12-2007)
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Jurisdiction and management of the public rights-of-way
   
112.002   Regulatory fees and compensation not a tax
   
112.003   Definitions
   
112.004   Governing law
   
112.005   Written agreement
   
112.006   Nonexclusive grant
   
112.007   Other remedies
   
112.008   Compliance with laws
   
112.009   Consent
   
112.010   Application to existing ordinance and agreements
   
112.011   Confidentiality
Registration of Telecommunications Carriers
   
112.020   Purpose
   
112.021   Registration required
   
112.022   Registration fee
   
112.023   Exceptions to registration
Construction Standards
   
112.030   General
   
112.031   Construction codes
   
112.032   Construction permits
   
112.033   Permit applications
   
112.034   Applicant's verification
   
112.035   Construction schedule
   
112.036   Construction permit fee
   
112.037   Issuance of permit
   
112.038   Notice of construction
   
112.039   Compliance with permit
   
112.040   Noncomplying work
   
112.041   Completion of construction
   
112.042   As-built drawings
   
112.043   Restoration of public rights-of-way and city property
   
112.044   Performance and completion bond
Location of Telecommunications Facilities
   
112.050   Location of facilities
   
112.051   Interference with the public rights-of-way
   
112.052   Relocation or removal of facilities
   
112.053   Removal of unauthorized facilities
   
112.054   Coordination of construction activities
Telecommunications Franchise
   
112.060   Telecommunications franchise
   
112.061   Application
   
112.062   Application and review fee
   
112.063   Determination by the city
   
112.064   Rights granted
   
112.065   Term of grant
   
112.066   Franchise territory
   
112.067   Franchise fee
   
112.068   Amendment of grant
   
112.069   Renewal applications
   
112.070   Renewal determinations
   
112.071   Obligations to cure as a condition of renewal
   
112.072   Assignments or transfers of system or franchise
   
112.073   Revocation or termination of franchise
   
112.074   Notice and duty to cure
   
112.075   Public hearing
   
112.076   Standards for revocation or lesser sanctions
   
112.077   Other city costs
General Franchise Terms
   
112.090   Facilities
   
112.091   Damage to grantee's facilities
   
112.092   Duty to provide information
   
112.093   Service to the city
   
112.094   Compensation for city property
   
112.095   Cable franchise
   
112.096   Leased capacity
   
112.097   Grantee insurance
   
112.098   General indemnification
   
112.099   Performance surety
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 JURISDICTION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over all
public rights-of-way within the city under authority of the city charter and
state law.
   (B)   Public rights-of-way include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easement and all
other public ways or areas, including the subsurface under and air space over
these areas.
   (C)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over
each public right-of-way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal
interest in the right-of-way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory
management of each right-of-way whether the legal interest in the right-of-way
was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation,
annexation, foreclosure or other means.
   (D)   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights-of-way be
franchises and permits.
   (E)   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory management of a public
right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way, and
does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
   (F)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the public rights-of-way of the
city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in
response to a public health or safety emergency.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.002 REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX.
   (A)   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter, and any compensation
charged and paid for use of the public rights-of-way provided for in this
chapter, are separate from, and in addition to, any and all federal, state,
local, and city charges as may be levied, imposed, or due from a
telecommunications carrier, its customers or subscribers, or on account of the
lease, sale, delivery, or transmission of telecommunications services.
   (B)   The city has determined that any fee provided for by this chapter is
not subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI, Sections 11 and 11b
of the Oregon Constitution. These fees are not imposed on property or property
owners, and these fees are not new or increased fees.
   (C)   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter are subject to
applicable federal and state laws.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may"
is permissive. Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning set forth in
the Communications Policy Act of 1934, as amended, the Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996. If not defined there, the
words shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   ABOVEGROUND FACILITIES. See OVERHEAD FACILITIES.
   AFFILIATED INTEREST. Has the same meaning as O.R.S. 759.010.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521, et
seq., as now and hereafter amended.
   CABLE SERVICE. Defined consistent with federal laws and means the 1-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming, or other programming service;
and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use
of such video programming or other programming service.
   CITY. The City of Banks, an Oregon municipal corporation, and individuals
authorized to act on the city's behalf.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected governing body of the City of Banks, Oregon.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised.
   CITY PROPERTY. All real property owned by the city, other than public
rights-of-way and utility easements as those are defined herein, and all
property held in a proprietary capacity by the city, which are not subject to
right-of-way franchising as provided in this chapter.
   CONDUIT. Any structure, or portion thereof, containing 1 or more ducts,
conduits, manholes, handholes, bolts, or other facilities used for any
telegraph, telephone, cable television, electrical, or communications
conductors, or cable right-of-way, owned or controlled, in whole or in part, by
1 or more public utilities.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any activity in the public rights-of-way resulting in physical
change thereto, including excavation or placement of structures, but excluding
routine maintenance or repair of existing facilities.
   DAYS. Calendar days unless otherwise specified.
   DUCT. A single enclosed raceway for conductors or cable.
   EMERGENCY. Has the meaning provided for in O.R.S. 401.025.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION or FCC. The Federal Administrative Agency,
or its lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
   FRANCHISE. An agreement between the city and a grantee which grants a
privilege to use public right-of-way and utility easements within the city for
a dedicated purpose and for specific compensation.
   GRANTEE. The person to which a franchise is granted by the city.
   OREGON PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION or OPUC. The statutorily created state
agency in the State of Oregon responsible for licensing, regulation and
administration of certain telecommunications carriers as set forth in Oregon
Law, or its lawful successor.
   OVERHEAD OR ABOVEGROUND FACILITIES. Utility poles, utility facilities and
telecommunications facilities above the surface of the ground, including the
underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, joint stock
company or association, firm, partnership, or limited liability company.
   PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A system, including the construction,
maintenance or operation of the system, for the provision of a service or any
portion of a service which is owned or operated exclusively by a person for
their use and not for resale, directly or indirectly. PRIVATE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK includes services provided by the State of Oregon
pursuant to O.R.S. 190.240 and 283.140.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements, and all
other public ways or areas, including the subsurface under and air space over
these areas. This definition applies only to the extent of the city's right,
title, interest or authority to grant a franchise to occupy and use such areas
for telecommunications facilities. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall also include
utility easements as defined below.
   STATE. The State of Oregon.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission between and among points specified by
the user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Communications Policy Act of 1934, as amended by
subsequent enactments including the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C.
§§ 151 et seq.) and as hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Any provider of telecommunications services and
includes every person that directly or indirectly owns, controls, operates or
manages telecommunications facilities within the city.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The plant and equipment, other than customer
premises equipment, used by a telecommunications carrier to provide
telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Two-way switched access and transport of voice
communications but does not include: services provided by radio common carrier;
1-way transmission of television signals; surveying; private telecommunications
networks; or communications of the customer which take place on the customer
side of on-premises equipment.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. See TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES above.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITY. Has the same meaning as O.R.S. 759.005(1).
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. Utility and telecommunications facilities located
under the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or
supports for overhead facilities.
   USABLE SPACE All the space on a pole, except the portion below ground level,
the 20 feet of safety clearance space above ground level, and the safety
clearance space between communications and power circuits. There is a
rebuttable presumption that 6 feet of a pole is buried below ground level.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. Any easement granted to or owned by the city and acquired,
established, dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes.
   UTILITY FACILITIES. The plant, equipment and property, including but not
limited to the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cable, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on, or above the surface of the ground within the
public right-of-way of the city and used or to be used for the purpose of
providing utility or telecommunications services.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.004 GOVERNING LAW.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the provisions of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the State of Oregon and the
ordinances and Charter of the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.005 WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
   No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the agreement is in writing.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.006 NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT.
   No franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public rights-of-way of
the city for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.007 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.008 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   Any grantee under this chapter shall comply with all federal and state laws
and regulations including regulations of any administrative agency thereof, as
well as all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
heretofore or hereafter adopted or established during the entire term any
franchise granted under this chapter, which are relevant and relate to the
construction, maintenance and operation of a telecommunications system.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.009 CONSENT.
   Wherever the consent of either the city or of the grantee is specifically
required by this chapter or in a franchise granted, such consent will not be
unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.010 APPLICATION TO EXISTING ORDINANCE AND AGREEMENTS.
   To the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with and can be
implemented with existing code and franchise agreements, this chapter shall
apply to all existing ordinance and franchise agreements for use of the public
right-of-way for telecommunications.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.011 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The city agrees to use its best efforts to preserve the confidentiality of
information as requested by a grantee, to the extent permitted by the Oregon
Public Records Law.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS
§ 112.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of registration is to:
   (A)   Assure that all telecommunications carriers who have facilities and/or
provide services within the city comply with the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city.
   (B)   Provide the city with accurate and current information concerning the
telecommunications carriers who offer to provide telecommunications services
within the city, or that own or operate telecommunications facilities within
the city.
   (C)   Assist the city in the enforcement of this chapter and the collection
of any city franchise fees or charges that may be due the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.021 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
112.023, all telecommunications carriers having telecommunications facilities
within the corporate limits of the city, and all telecommunications carriers
that offer or provide telecommunications service to customer premises within
the city, shall register. The appropriate application and license from: the
Oregon Public Utility Commission (PUC); or the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) qualify as necessary registration information. Applicants also
have the option of providing the following information:
   (A)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including the name,
address, and telephone number of the duly authorized officer, agent, or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration information.
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number for the duly authorized
officer, agent, or employee to be contacted in case of an emergency.
   (C)   A description of the registrant's existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the city, a description of the
telecommunications facilities that the registrant intends to construct, and a
description of the telecommunications service that the registrant intends to
offer or provide to persons, firms, businesses, or institutions within the
city.
   (D)   Information sufficient to determine whether the transmission,
origination or receipt of the telecommunications services provided, or to be
provided, the registrant constitutes an occupation or privilege subject to any
business license requirements. A copy of the business license or the license
number must be provided.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.022 REGISTRATION FEE.
   Each application for registration as a telecommunications carrier shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable registration fee in the amount of $35, or as
otherwise established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.023 EXCEPTIONS TO REGISTRATION.
   The following telecommunications carriers are excepted from registration.
   (A)   Telecommunications carriers that are owned and operated exclusively
for its own use by the state or a political subdivision of this state.
   (B)   A private telecommunications network, provided that such network does
not occupy any public rights-of-way of the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 112.030 GENERAL.
   No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation or
operation of telecommunications facilities within a public right-of-way except
as proved in §§
112.031 through
112.044 and with all applicable codes, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.031 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated and
maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local codes,
rules and regulations including the National Electrical Code and the National
Electrical Safety Code.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.032 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   No person shall construct or install any telecommunications facilities
within a public right-of-way without first obtaining a construction permit, and
paying the construction permit fee established in §
112.036. No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within a public right-of-way:
   (A)   Unless the telecommunications carrier has first filed a registration
statement with the city pursuant to §§
112.020 through
112.023; and if applicable,
   (B)   Unless the telecommunications carrier has first applied for and
received a franchise pursuant to §§
112.060 through
112.077.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.033 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permits to construct telecommunications facilities shall be
submitted upon forms to be provided by the city and shall be accompanied by
drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   (A)   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
   (B)   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with the
franchise agreement.
   (C)   The location and route of all facilities to be installed aboveground
or on existing utility poles.
   (D)   The location and route of all new facilities on or in the public
rights-of-way to be located under the surface of the ground, including the line
and grade proposed for the burial at all points along the route which are
within the public rights-of-way. Existing facilities shall be differentiated on
the plans from new construction.
   (E)   The location of all of applicant's existing underground utilities,
conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public
rights-of-way along the underground route proposed by the applicant. A cross
section shall be provided showing new or existing facilities in relation to the
street, curb, sidewalk or right-of-way.
   (F)   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public rights-
of-way, and description of any improvements that applicant proposes to
temporarily or permanently remove or relocate.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.034 APPLICANT'S VERIFICATION.
   All permit applications shall be accompanied by the verification of a
registered professional engineer, or other qualified and duly authorized
representative of the applicant, that the drawings, plans and specifications
submitted with the application comply with applicable technical codes, rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.035 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   All permit applications shall be accompanied by a written construction
schedule, which shall include a deadline for completion of construction. The
construction schedule is subject to approval by the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.036 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE.
   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, prior to issuance of a
construction permit, the applicant shall pay a permit fee in an amount
consistent with this chapter or as otherwise determined by resolution of the
City Council. Such fee shall be designed to defray the costs of city
administration of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.037 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If satisfied that the applications, plans and documents submitted comply
with all requirements of this chapter and the franchise agreement, the city
shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to
such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place
and manner of performing the work as they may deem necessary or appropriate.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.038 NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Except in the case of an emergency, the permittee shall notify the city not
less than 2 working days in advance of any excavation or construction in the
public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.039 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The city
and its representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such
further information as they may require to ensure compliance with such
requirements.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.040 NONCOMPLYING WORK.
   Subject to the notice requirements in §
112.053, all work which does not comply with the permit, the approved or
corrected plans and specifications for the work, or the requirements of this
chapter, shall be removed at the sole expense of the permittee.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.041 COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the city rights-of-way and other public and private
property. All construction work within city rights-of-way, including
restoration, must be completed within 120 days of the date of issuance of the
construction permit unless an extension or an alternate schedule has been
approved pursuant to the schedule submitted and approved by the appropriate
city official as contemplated by §
112.035.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.042 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   If requested by the city, the permittee shall furnish the city with 2
complete sets of plans drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurately
depicting the location of all telecommunications facilities constructed
pursuant to the permit. These plans shall be submitted to the City Engineer or
designee within 60 days after completion of construction, in a format mutually
acceptable to the permittee and the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.043 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   When a permittee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work in
or affecting any public rights-of-way or city property, it shall, at its own
expense, promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and restore such ways or
property to good order and condition unless otherwise directed by the city and
as determined by the City Engineer or designee.
   (B)   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete restoration
required by this section, the permittee shall temporarily restore the affected
rights-of-way or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
permittee's sole expense and the permittee shall promptly undertake and
complete the required permanent restoration when the weather or other
conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration. Any corresponding
modification to the construction schedule shall be subject to approval by the
city.
   (C)   If the permittee fails to restore rights-of-way or property to good
order and condition, the city shall give the permittee written notice and
provide the permittee a reasonable period of time not exceeding 30 days to
restore the rights-of-way or property. If, after said notice, the permittee
fails to restore the rights-of-way or property to as good a condition as
existed before the work was undertaken, the city shall cause such restoration
to be made at the expense of the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagging attendants, lights, flares and other measures as
required for the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent
injury or damage to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in
or affecting such rights-of-way or property.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.044 PERFORMANCE AND COMPLETION BOND.
   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, a performance bond or
other form of surety acceptable to the city equal to al least 100% of the
estimated cost of constructing permittee's telecommunications facilities within
the public rights-of-way of the city, shall be provided before construction is
commenced.
   (A)   The surety shall remain in force until 60 days after substantial
completion of the work, as determined in writing by the city, including
restoration of public rights-of-way and other property affected by the
construction.
   (B)   The surety shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the city:
      (1)   Timely completion of construction;
      (2)   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
      (3)   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the city;
      (4)   Restoration of the public rights-of-way and other property affected
by the construction; and
      (5)   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens for
labor, material, or services provided in connection with the work.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
LOCATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 112.050 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   All facilities located within the public right-of-way shall be constructed,
installed and located in accordance with the following terms and conditions,
unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement:
   (A)   Whenever all existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public right-of-
way of the city, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public right-of-
way must also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   (B)   Whenever all existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground with a
public right-of-way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same
public right-of-way shall relocate its facilities underground concurrently with
the other affected utilities to minimize disruption of the public right-of-way,
absent extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city
and consistent with applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.051 INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No grantee may locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to
unreasonably interfere with the use of the public rights-of-way by the city, by
the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be present in or
upon the public rights-of-way. All use of public rights-of-way shall be
consistent with city codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.052 RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   Except in the case of an emergency, within 90 days following written notice
from the city, a grantee shall, at no expense to grantor, temporarily or
permanently remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
telecommunications facilities within the public rights-of-way whenever the city
shall have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is
reasonably necessary for:
   (A)   The construction, repairs, maintenance or installation of any city or
other public improvement in or upon the public rights-of-way;
   (B)   The operations of the city or other governmental entity in or upon the
public rights-of-way; or
   (C)   The public interest.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.053 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES.
   Within 30 days following written notice from the city, any grantee,
telecommunications carrier, or other person that owns, controls or maintains
any unauthorized telecommunications system, facility, or related appurtenances
within the public rights-of-way of the city shall, at its own expense, remove
such facilities or appurtenances from the public rights-of-way of the city. A
telecommunications system or facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
   (A)   One year after the expiration or termination of the grantee's
telecommunications franchise.
   (B)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public rights-of-way of the
city. A facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated, out of
service, or not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a period of 90
days or longer. A facility will not be considered abandoned if it is
temporarily out of service during performance of repairs or if the facility is
being replaced.
   (C)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
appropriate prior authority at the time of installation.
   (D)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications franchise or other legally
sufficient permit.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.054 COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   All grantees are required to make a good faith effort to cooperate with the
city.
   (A)   By January 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the city with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   If requested by the city, each grantee shall meet with the city
annually or as determined by the city, to schedule and coordinate construction
in the public rights-of-way. At that time, city will provide available
information on plans for local, state, and/or federal construction projects.
   (C)   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the City Engineer or designee, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption or damages.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
§ 112.060 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE.
   A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public rights-of-way in the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.061 APPLICATION.
   Any person that desires a telecommunications franchise must register as a
telecommunications carrier and shall file an application with the city which
includes the following information:
   (A)   The identity of the applicant.
   (B)   A description of the telecommunications services that are to be
offered or provided by the applicant over its telecommunications facilities.
   (C)   Engineering plans, specifications, and a network map in a form
customarily used by the applicant of the facilities located or to be located
within the public rights-of-way in the city, including the location and route
requested for applicant's proposed telecommunications facilities.
   (D)   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
preliminary construction schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area.
   (E)   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer to provide the telecommunications services proposed.
   (F)   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the city that applicant intends to use or
lease.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.062 APPLICATION AND REVIEW FEE.
   (A)   Subject to applicable state law, applicant shall reimburse the city
for such reasonable costs as the city incurs in entering into the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   An application and review fee of $2,000 shall be deposited with the
city as part of the application filed pursuant to §
112.061. Expenses exceeding the deposit will be billed to the applicant or the
unused portion of the deposit will be returned to the applicant following the
determination granting or denying the franchise.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.063 DETERMINATION BY THE CITY.
   The city shall issue a written determination granting or denying the
application in whole or in part. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.064 RIGHTS GRANTED.
   No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall convey any right, title
or interest in the public rights-of-way, but shall be deemed a grant to use and
occupy the public rights-of-way for the limited purposes and term stated in the
franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.065 TERM OF GRANT.
   Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of years.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.066 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be limited to a specific geographic area of
the city to be served by the franchise grantee, and the public rights-of-way
necessary to serve such areas, and may include the entire city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.067 FRANCHISE FEE.
   Each franchise granted by the city is subject to the city's right, which is
expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the privileges granted; provided, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the
city and a grantee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid. The
compensation shall be subject to the specific payment terms and conditions
contained in the franchise agreement and applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.068 AMENDMENT OF GRANT.
   Conditions for amending a franchise:
   (A)   A new application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public rights-of-way of the city which are not
included in a franchise previously granted under this chapter.
   (B)   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public rights-of-way not included in a previously granted
franchise, the city shall grant an amendment without further application.
   (C)   A new application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to provide a service which was not
included in a franchise previously granted under this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.069 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this chapter shall, not
less than 180 days before expiration of the current agreement, file an
application with the city for renewal of its franchise which shall include the
following information:
   (A)   The information required pursuant to §
112.061.
   (B)   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the city and the grantee.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.070 RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS.
   Within 90 days after receiving a complete application, the city shall issue
a written determination granting or denying the renewal application in whole or
in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application is
denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for non-renewal:
   (A)   The financial and technical ability of the applicant;
   (B)   The legal ability of the applicant;
   (C)   The continuing capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate the
applicant's existing and proposed facilities;
   (D)   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the franchise agreement;
   (E)   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules and
policies; and
   (F)   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use
the public rights-of-way will serve the community interest.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.071 OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL.
   No franchise shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in
the grantee's performance of the agreement, or of the requirements of this
chapter, have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken
by the grantee has been approved by the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.072 ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF SYSTEM OR FRANCHISE.
   Ownership or control of a majority interest in a telecommunications system
or franchise may not, directly or indirectly, be transferred, assigned or
disposed of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of the grantee,
by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior consent of the city, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and then only on such
reasonable conditions as may be prescribed in such consent.
   (A)   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the franchise or
system shall agree, in writing, to assume and abide by all of the provisions of
the franchise.
   (B)   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has
the legal, technical, financial and other requisite qualifications of own, hold
and operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, the grantee shall
reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs, and expenses
reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer or assign
a telecommunications franchise.
   (D)   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunication franchise, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the city under this chapter
or pursuant to a franchise agreement shall be void and is cause for revocation
of the franchise.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.073 REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchise to sue or occupy public rights-of-way of the city may be revoked
for the following reasons:
   (A)   Construction or operation in the city or in the public rights-of-way
of the city without a construction permit;
   (B)   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location;
   (C)   Failure to comply with §
112.072 with respect to sale, transfer or assignment of a telecommunication
system or franchise;
   (D)   Misrepresentation by or on behalf of a grantee in any application to
the city;
   (E)   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public rights-of-
way;
   (F)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this chapter;
   (G)   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due the
city under this chapter;
   (H)   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee;
   (I)   Violation of material provisions of this chapter; and
   (J)   Violation of the material terms of a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.074 NOTICE AND DUTY TO CURE.
   In the event that the city believes that grounds exist for revocation of a
franchise, the city shall give the grantee written notice of the apparent
violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise statement of the
nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance, and providing the
grantee a reasonable period of time, not exceeding 30 days, to furnish evidence
that:
   (A)   Corrective action has been, or is being actively and expeditiously
pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance;
   (B)   Rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; and/or
   (C)   It would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or sanction
less than revocation.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.075 PUBLIC HEARING.
   In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the city as to its performance consistent with this chapter,
the city staff shall refer the apparent violation non-compliance to the City
Council. The City Council shall provide the grantee with notice and a
reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.076 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS.
   If persuaded that the grantee has violated or failed to comply with material
provisions of this chapter, or of a franchise agreement, the City Council shall
determine whether to revoke the franchise, or to establish some less sanction
and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the
violation as reflected by 1 or more of the following factors. Whether:
   (A)   The misconduct was egregious;
   (B)   Substantial harm resulted;
   (C)   The violation was intentional;
   (D)   There is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements;
   (E)   There is a history of overall compliance; or
   (F)   The violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.077 OTHER CITY COSTS.
   All grantees shall, within 30 days after written demand therefor, reimburse
the city for all reasonable direct and indirect costs and expenses incurred by
the city in connection with any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of
the franchise or any franchise agreement consistent with applicable state and
federal laws.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
GENERAL FRANCHISE TERMS
§ 112.090 FACILITIES.
   Upon request, each grantee shall provide the city with an accurate map or
maps certifying the location of all telecommunications facilities within the
public rights-of-way. Each grantee shall provide updated maps annually.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.091 DAMAGE TO GRANTEE'S FACILITIES.
   Unless directly and proximately caused by willful, intentional or malicious
acts by the city, the city shall not be liable for any damage to or loss of any
telecommunications facility within the public rights-of-way of the city as a
result of or in connection with any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind in the public
rights-of-way by or on behalf of the city, or for any consequential losses
resulting directly or indirectly therefrom.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.092 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Within 10 business days of a written request from the city, each grantee
shall furnish the city with information sufficient to demonstrate:
   (A)   That grantee has complied with all requirements of this chapter; and
   (B)   All books, records, maps, and other documents, maintained by the
grantee with respect to its facilities within the public rights-of-way shall be
made available for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.093 SERVICE TO THE CITY.
   If the city contracts for the use of telecommunication facilities,
telecommunication services, installation, or maintenance from the grantee, the
grantee shall charge the city the grantee's most favorable rate offered at the
time of the request charged to similar users within Oregon for a similar volume
of service, subject to any of grantee's tariffs or price lists on file with the
OPUC. With the city's permission, the grantee may deduct the applicable charges
from fee payments. Other terms and conditions of such services may be specified
in a separate agreement between the city and grantee.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.094 COMPENSATION FOR CITY PROPERTY.
   If any right is granted, by lease, franchise or other manner, to use and
occupy city property for the installation of telecommunications facilities, the
compensation to be paid for such right and use shall be fixed by the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.095 CABLE FRANCHISE.
   Telecommunication carriers providing cable service shall be subject to the
separate cable franchise requirements of the city and other applicable
authority.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.096 LEASED CAPACITY.
   A grantee shall have the right, without prior city approval, to offer or
provide capacity or bandwidth to its customers; provided that the grantee shall
notify the city that such lease or agreement has been granted to a customer or
lessee.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.097 GRANTEE INSURANCE.
   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, each grantee shall, as a
condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring both the grantee and the city, and its elected and appointed
officers, officials, agents and employees as coinsured.
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than:
      (1)   Three million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
      (2)   Three million dollars for property damage resulting from any 1
accident; and
      (3)   Three million dollars for all other types of liability.
   (B)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
limit of $1,000,000 for each person and $3,000,000 for each accident.
   (C)   Worker's compensation within statutory limits and employer's liability
insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000.
   (D)   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not
less than $3,000,000.
   (E)   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications
franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is operating
without a franchise hereunder, or is engaged in the removal of its
telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall contain the
following endorsement:
      "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the
City, be registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the City of such
intent to cancel or not to renew."
   (F)   Within 60 days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than 30 days prior to said cancellation, the grantee shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence that the grantee meets requirements of this
section.
   (G)   As an alternative to the insurance requirements contained herein, a
grantee may provide evidence of self-insurance subject to review and acceptance
by the city.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.098 GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   Each franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted by law,
grantee's express undertaking to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its
officers, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and against any
and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and
costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise
out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions,
failures to act or misconduct of the grantee or its affiliates, officers,
employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction,
operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its telecommunications facilities,
and in providing or offering telecommunications services over the facilities or
network, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited
by this chapter or by a franchise agreement made or entered into pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.099 PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   Before a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as
necessary thereafter, the grantee shall provide a performance bond, in form and
substance acceptable to the city, as security for the full and complete
performance of a franchise granted under this chapter, including any costs,
expenses, damages or loss the city pays or incurs because of any failure
attributable to the grantee to comply with the codes, ordinances, rules,
regulations or permits of the city. This obligation is in addition to the
performance surety required for construction of facilities.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. A separate and
distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation
occurs. The enforcement of this provision shall be consistent with the
provisions of this chapter regulating code enforcement.
(Ord. 2007-06-01, passed 6-12-2007)
CHAPTER 113: GAMBLING AND SOCIAL GAMES
Section
   
113.01   Gambling and social games
§ 113.01 GAMBLING AND SOCIAL GAMES.
   (A)   Social games permitted.
      (1)   Social games, other than a lottery between players in a private
business, private club or in a place of public accommodation where no house
player, house bank or house odds exist and there is no house take (meaning no
house income from the operation of the social game), and other than a lottery,
a game not requiring an application for a license from the state, other than a
lottery, between players in a place of public accommodation where no house
player, bank, or house odds exist and there is no house income, excluding money
earned by a 501(c)(3) nonprofit charitable organization with not more than
$2,000 income per event or $5,000 income per year are taken in by the
organization.
      (2)   The applicant must provide proof of tax exempt status with the
application, unless the applicant is a public school or a government agency.
Acceptable forms of proof include:
         (a)   A determination letter from the IRS stating that the
organization is tax exempt;
         (b)   A copy of the IRS group exemption letter if the applicant is
claiming to be tax exempt under a group exemption; or
         (c)   A signed opinion letter from an attorney or certified public
accountant that states the organization is tax exempt and cites the relevant
IRS code section which supports the opinion of the organization’s tax exempt
status.
      (3)   The following will not be accepted as proof of tax exempt status:
         (a)   IRS form showing tax ID number; or
         (b)   Any articles of incorporation or organization that solely lists
the organization as a nonprofit entity. If the organization believes that the
income could be more than $2,000 per event or bring in more than $5,000 within
a single tax year, no permit will be issued, and the applicant must show proof
of a license from the State of Oregon.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms set
forth in this section shall have the same meaning as set forth in O.R.S.
167.117.
   (C)   License required for social games. Any person(s), business, private
club, nonprofit organization or place of public accommodation desiring to
permit patrons or invitees to engage in any social game within the city shall
acquire and maintain a valid license from the city. Licenses shall be granted
only upon application to the city and upon approval by the City Manager.
   (D)   Application for license and investigation. The following requirements
shall govern the application for and administration of a license under this
section.
      (1)   Application requirements. Before a license for social gaming may be
granted by the city, an applicant must submit an application for a license to
the City Manager with the following information and allow an investigation to
be made thereon at the City Managers discretion. A completed application form
must include the true names, dates of birth, and addresses of the business
owner(s). The application shall also include the names, dates of birth and
addresses of all tournament sponsors if different from owner(s) of the
business. The applicant must provide proof of tax exempt status with the
application, unless the applicant is a public school or a government agency.
      (2)   Application renewal. The grantee of a social gaming license must
notify the City Manager within 10 days of any change of ownership in the
business and request a renewal of its license. At the time of such request, the
applicant shall submit the information required by division (D)(1) of this
section.
      (3)   License fee. The City Council shall establish by resolution and
from time to time may amend an application and annual renewal fee for each
business or other entity or organization licensed under this section.
      (4)   Standards for issuance of license. The City Manager shall either
approve the application and grant the license applied for, or deny the
application and refuse to grant the license. The license shall not be granted,
or it shall be temporarily revoked or suspended, if the applicant has:
         (a)   Supplied any false or misleading information in the application
or omitted any requested information from the application;
         (b)   Pleaded no contest to or been convicted of any felony within the
last 10 years;
         (c)   Had a license in his or her name which was revoked or suspended
3 times by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, any of which was in the last 5
years;
         (d)   Been convicted and is currently on parole for any crime
involving or related to gambling;
         (e)   Had 2 or more convictions within 5 years for gambling-related
activities; or
         (f)   Violated any provision of this section.
      (5)   License not transferable. No license shall be assigned or
transferred, and any attempt to do so will void the license.
      (6)   Responsibilities of licensee. It shall be the responsibility of the
licensee to ensure that:
         (a)   No form of unlawful gambling occurs upon the licensed premises.
         (b)   Social games are conducted consistently with the provisions of
state law, City ordinances and this section.
         (c)   There shall be no house player, house bank or house odds, and
there shall be no house income from the operation of the social game.
         (d)   All social games shall be open to public inspection during all
hours of operation.
         (e)   There are no off-premises signs advertising gambling, card
playing, or social games.
         (f)   The playing of all social games shall be so arranged as to
provide equal access and visibility to any interested party.
         (g)   Persons under 18 years of age are not permitted in the room or
enclosure where the social game takes place.
         (h)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to
participate in a social game.
         (I)   No charge, other than an entry fee, shall be collected from a
player for the privilege of participating in a game.
         (j)   The room or enclosure where the social games take place is open
to free and immediate access by law enforcement officers. Doors leading into
the room or enclosure shall remain unlocked during all hours of operation.
         (k)   No social game shall be conducted between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 10:00 a.m.
      (7)   Tournament format required. All social games shall utilize a
tournament format, which includes:
         (a)   A set entry fee;
         (b)   Players in card games shall receive in-game currency represented
by chips (poker type) which shall be non-redeemable;
         (c)   Contestants shall compete for awards corresponding to a
participant’s relative standing at the conclusion of the tournament; and
         (d)   All entry fees not designated as a charitable donation and
monies taken in for the tournament shall be paid to the participants at the
conclusion of the tournament. Entry fees shall not include amounts designated
at time of event registration to be a charitable donation and thus not part of
prize money.
      (8)   Terms of license. All licenses issued hereunder shall be for a
period of 1 year and may be renewed on the first business day of January of
each year. Licenses are nontransferable and must be reapplied for at least 30
days prior to the renewal date each year accompanied by the appropriate fee.
All persons securing a license after the first business day of January each
year shall be required to pay the total annual fee. All renewals shall be
approved by the City Manager.
      (9)   Revocation of license. A license is subject to revocation at any
time for violation of this section or any of the provisions of state law
related to gambling. If at any time facts arise or become known to the City
Manager that are sufficient to show violation of this section or state law, the
City Manager shall notify the licensee in writing that the license is to be
revoked and that all social gaming activities must cease within 48 hours. The
violations need not lead to a conviction, but must establish a reasonable doubt
about the licensee’s ability to perform the licensed activity without danger to
property or public health or safety. The notice of revocation shall state the
reason for the revocation, set a period of no less than 30 days before social
gaming activities can recommence and inform the licensee of the procedures for
filing an appeal.
      (10)   Suspension of license. Upon determining that a licensed activity
presents an immediate danger to person or property, the City Manager may
suspend the license for the activity. The suspension shall take effect
immediately upon notice being received by the licensee, or being delivered to
the licensee’s business address as stated on the licensee’s application for the
license that is being suspended. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee and
state the reason for the suspension and inform the licensee of the procedures
for filing an appeal. The City Manager may continue the suspension for as long
as the reason for the suspension exists or until a decision by the City Council
on an appeal regarding the suspension concludes the matter.
(Ord. 2016-09-01, passed 10-11-2016)
CHAPTER 114: ALARM PERMITS AND SYSTEMS
Section
   
114.01   Alarm permits and systems
§ 114.01 ALARM PERMITS AND SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Consent to County Code. Pursuant to O.R.S. 203.040, the City of Banks
hereby consents to the applicability, administration and enforcement of
Washington County Code (“WCC”) Chapter 8.12 (Alarm Systems), as it currently
exists and may from time to time be amended, within the corporate limits of the
City of Banks by Washington County.
   (B)   Intergovernmental agreements authorized. The Mayor and City Manager
are authorized to execute such intergovernmental agreements pursuant to O.R.S.
Chapter 190 as deemed necessary and proper for the implementation,
administration and enforcement of WCC Chapter 8.12, including imposition of
Washington County fees for permitting and administration of the alarm system
program and penalties for violations of the substantive provisions of WCC
Chapter 8.12.
   (C)   Documentation of the alarm system program. The city shall maintain at
city hall and make available for inspection during normal business hours, a
current copy of WCC Chapter 8.12 and all intergovernmental agreements executed
between the city and Washington County related to the implementation,
administration and enforcement of this alarm system program.
(Ord. 2016-09-02, passed 10-11-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Oregon Criminal Code adopted
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct at fires
   
130.03   Drinking in public places
   
130.04   Excessive noise
   
130.05   Concealed weapons
   
130.06   Discharge of weapons
   
130.07   Fireworks
   
130.08   Public indecency
   
130.09   Endangering welfare of minor
   
130.10   Places of amusement
   
130.11   Providing liquor to minors
   
130.12   Purchase or possession of liquor by minor
   
130.13   Lawful consumption of liquor by minor
   
130.14   Purchase of property from minors
   
130.15   Cruelty to animals
   
130.16   Poisoning animals
   
130.17   Police and fire communications
   
130.18   Deliveries to prisoners
   
130.19   Obstruction of building entrances
   
130.20   Open cellar doors or grates
   
130.21   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
130.22   Vending goods on streets or sidewalks
   
130.23   Reserved
   
130.24   Offenses against public peace
   
130.25   Lodging
   
130.26   Selling or pledging property of intoxicated persons
   
130.27   Notices and advertisements
   
130.28   Hauling
   
130.29   Offenses outside city limits
   
130.30   Soliciting or confederating to violate ordinances
   
130.31   Attempt to commit offenses
   
130.32   Curfew
   
130.33   Loitering
   
130.34   Offenses against property
   
130.35   Begging; aggressive panhandling
   
130.36   Separate violations
   
130.37   Nuisance abatement
   
130.38   Application of state statutes
   
130.39   Saving clause
   
130.40   Smoking and tobacco use on public property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 OREGON CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Oregon Revised Statutes Chapters 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, and
167, except for any provision classified as a felony under state law, are
adopted by reference. Violation of an adopted provision of these chapters is an
offense against this city.
   (B)   The provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 161, relating to defenses, burden of
proof, general principles of criminal liability, parties, and general
principles of justification apply to offenses defined and made punishable by
this chapter.
   (C)   Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning,
definitions appearing in the general definitional and other particular sections
of chapters adopted by division (A) above are applicable throughout this
chapter.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT FIRES.
   (A)   No person at or near a fire shall obstruct or impede fighting of the
fire, interfere with Fire Department personnel or Fire Department apparatus,
behave in a disorderly manner, or refuse to observe promptly at order of a
member of the Fire or Police Department.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, members of the Fire Department are
endowed with the same powers of arrest as are conferred on peace officers for
violations of city ordinances.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor in or on a street, alley,
mall, parking lot or structure, motor vehicle, public grounds, or other public
place unless the place has been licensed for that purpose by the Oregon Liquor
Control Commission. Provided, however, consumption of alcohol is permitted in a
park when a permit has been obtained from the City Manager.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2015-03-02, passed 4-14-2015) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.04 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall create, generate, continue, cause or allow to be
generated on their property any noise that is excessive and unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the reasonable comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of any person of normal sensitivity. A noise may be deemed
excessive and unreasonably annoying or disturbing based on its volume
(loudness), frequency, repetition, duration, or the time when it occurs.
   (B)   The following are examples of excessive or unreasonable noise that are
deemed violations of this section. This is not an exclusive list of violations,
but illustrative examples:
      (1)   Keeping, maintaining or having control or ownership of an animal
that, by loud and frequent or continued noise, disturbs the reasonable comfort
and repose of a person in the vicinity;
      (2)   Use of an engine or motorized device, implement or tool that create
a noise so loud as to disturb the reasonable comfort and repose of a person in
the vicinity;
      (3)   Motor vehicles, trucks, automobiles, motorcycles and the like that
create a noise so loud as to disturb the reasonable comfort and repose of a
person in the vicinity;
      (4)   Construction, excavation, demolition, alteration or other work
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except by special permit granted
by the city; and/or
      (5)   The creation or broadcast of music, musical instrument(s) or human
voice over an amplified speaker or sound system between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. that disturbs the reasonable comfort and repose of 2 or more
people in the vicinity or in a manner that makes it a public nuisance. This
does not include organized school or club sports events conducted at an
established outdoor sports venue or facility so long as the event is concluded
by 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Anyone proposing an activity, project or event on non-residentially
zoned property that could violate this section may seek a one-time or limited
duration exemption from the City Council for good cause shown. The City Council
may grant such an exemption for property that is not zoned for residential or
mixed use and may impose conditions and restrictions that limit the time,
duration or area of disturbance likely to be caused by the activity, project or
event.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2014-10- 01, passed 11-11-2014; Am. Ord.
2019-08-01, passed 9-10-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-10-01, passed 11-12-2019) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Except as allowed under Oregon state law, no person shall carry
concealed on his or her person or conceal in a vehicle a revolver, pistol, or
other firearm; a knife other than an ordinary pocket knife; a dirk, dagger, or
stiletto; metal knuckles; or any weapon that could be used to inflict injury on
a person or the property of another. For purposes of this section, an ORDINARY
POCKET KNIFE is one with a maximum blade length of 3-1/2 inches that is not a
switchblade or spring-blade knife.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-130.05, passed 2-13-2007)
   (B)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLAZE ORANGE TIP. Either a plastic plug or a permanent marking which is
colored blaze orange, which covers the barrel of a replica firearm from the
muzzle end for a depth of at least 6 millimeters, the placement of which is
required by federal law.
      FIREARM. A weapon, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile by the action of powder and which is readily capable of use as a
weapon.
      LASER POINTER. A device that emits light amplified by the stimulated
emission of radiation that is visible to the human eye.
      PUBLIC PLACE or PRIVATE PROPERTY OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. A place to which the
general public has access and includes, but is not limited to, hallways,
lobbies and other parts of apartment houses and hotels not constitution rooms
or apartments designed for actual residence, and highways, streets, schools,
places of amusement, parks, playgrounds and premises used in connection with
public passenger transportation.
      REPLICA FIREARM. Any toy or imitation which substantially duplicates a
firearm or can reasonably be perceived to be an actual firearm unless:
            1.   The entire exterior surface of such toy or imitation is
colored bright red, bright orange, bright yellow, bright pink or bright purple,
either singly or as the predominant color in combination with other listed
colors; or such toy or imitation is constructed entirely of transparent or
translucent materials which permit unmistakable observation of the replica or
imitation's complete contents.
            2.   The qualifications of subsection 1., above, and the
affirmative defense of transporting a replica firearm in a public place set out
in division (B)(3) do not apply to replica firearms present on school premises
in the possession of persons under 25 years of age.
            3.   Imitation guns which may lawfully be seen in public
nonetheless may not bear an attached laser pointer.
      REPLICA FIREARM MERCHANT. A retail operation such as a hobby shop,
sporting goods store, or firearms store, which is a place of sale to ultimate
consumers of replica firearms for direct consumption, operating in a commercial
structure or storefront, with premises open to the general public during
business hours.
      (2)   Prohibition. No person shall:
         (a)   Possess a replica firearm in a public place; or
         (b)   Intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal
negligence point or discharge a replica firearm at another person, said other
person being located in a public place.
      (3)   Affirmative defense. In any action under this division (B), it is
an affirmative defense to be established by a preponderance of the evidence by
the defendant that:
         (a)   A person is transporting the replica firearm in a public place
and the replica firearm is completely concealed within an opaque container;
         (b)   A person is employed as a peace officer as defined in O.R.S.
133.005 and is acting within his or her official duties;
         (c)   The replica firearm, if present in a public place, is being used
for or in the production or television programs or theatrical or motion picture
presentation.
         (d)   The replica firearm is possessed in a situation where all the
following conditions are present:
            1.   The replica firearm is possessed in the course of commerce, or
for service or repair, by a replica firearm merchant, or a patron or wholesaler
of such a merchant;
            2.   The replica firearm is possessed within the merchant's
commercial storefront or structure in which the merchant's business is located;
and
            3.   The replica firearm merchant holds a current, valid City of
Banks business license.
         (e)    The replica firearm, if present in a public place, is being
used by the fire department in training and educational activities.
      (4)   Seizure as contraband. Replica firearms used in violation of this
division (B) shall be seized as contraband or for their evidentiary value,
whichever may be applicable, and may be subject to forfeiture to the maximum
extent allowed under law.
      (5)   Penalties.
         (a)   Violations of this division (B) are non-criminal violations
punishable by a fine of no less than $250. If the offense involves a replica
firearm on which the blaze orange tip has been removed or covered with paint,
tape, or similar opaque substance, the offense is punishable by a fine of no
less than $500.
         (b)   Notwithstanding subsection (5)(a), above, violation of this
division (B) upon school premises is a Class C misdemeanor.
         (c)   A violation of this division (B) is a Class A misdemeanor if the
defendant has been previously convicted of violating this ordinance within 5
years prior to the date of the current offense.
      (6)   Effective date. This division (B) shall take effect on July 1,
2007.
(Am. Ord. 130.05(B), passed 6-13-2007)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person other than an authorized peace officer shall fire or
discharge within the city any air gun or weapon which acts by force of
gunpowder or other explosive, or by the use of jet or rocket propulsion.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
firing or discharging of any weapon:
      (1)   By any person in the defense or protection of his or her property,
person or family.
      (2)   At any place duly designated by the city for target practice.
      (3)   By any person, with approval of the chief of police.
      (4)   If permission is obtained from the city council or its designated
official for demonstration, entertainment or other purposes.
      (5)   That fires a commercially-manufactured spherical projectile which
contains paint and is designed to break and splatter upon impact, commonly
known as “paintball.”
      (6)   That fires a commercially-manufactured spherical projectile with a
diameter between and Including 5.98 and 8 millimeters, constituted of common
styrene plastic or biodegradable plastic, weighing no more than .36 gram per
shape.
   (C)   Application for such permission shall state the name and address of
sponsors, the purpose, time, duration and location of the event, the safeguards
to be maintained and evidence of insurance, naming the city a coinsured, in an
aggregate amount of not less than $500,000 if the city so requires.
   (D)   Such permit, if issued, is immediately revocable by the City Manager
or a designee if, in such person's opinion, the safety or any persons or
property is being endangered.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-130.06, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FIREWORKS.
   The Oregon Fireworks Law, together with all acts and amendments applicable
to cities that are now or hereafter enacted, is adopted by reference and made a
part of this section.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-130.07, passed 2-13-2007)
§ 130.08 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person shall, while in or in view of a public place, perform:
   (A)   An act of sexual intercourse;
   (B)   An act of deviate sexual intercourse;
   (C)   An act of exposing the genitals with the intent of arousing the sexual
desire of themselves or other persons; and/or
   (D)   An act of urination or defecation except in toilets provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 ENDANGERING WELFARE OF MINOR.
   (A)   No person shall employ a person under 18 years of age in or about a
card room, poolroom, billiard parlor, or dance hall, unless the establishment
is a RECREATIONAL FACILITY as defined in section 41(3).
   (B)   No person shall solicit, aid, or cause a person under 18 years of age
to:
      (1)   Violate a law of the United States or a state, or to violate a city
or county ordinance; and/or
      (2)   Run away or conceal himself or herself from a person or institution
having lawful custody of the minor.
   (C)   No person shall sell or offer for sale to a person under 18 years of
age tobacco, nicotine or vapor products containing nicotine in any form.
Tobacco or vapor products in a retail store shall not be located in an area
accessible to customers without assistance by a store employee. It shall be
unlawful to locate vending machines dispensing tobacco, nicotine and vapor
products where minors have access to them.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to purchase,
attempt to purchase, use, smoke or obtain any tobacco, nicotine or vapor
products containing nicotine in any form.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
      SMOKE.  As a verb means any inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any
lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, grass, plant, liquid, vapor or any
other tobacco or tobacco-like product or any  substance in any manner or any
form. This includes the use of any electronic smoking device which creates
smoke, vapor or any other byproduct, in any manner or in any form.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco or is derived from
tobacco, and is intended to be put in the human body. TOBACCO PRODUCT includes
all electronic smoking devices and nicotine delivery devices and products, but
does not means tobacco use cessation products approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration.
      TOBACCO USE.  Smoking, chewing, inhaling, exhaling, vaping and any other
ingestion or consumption of a tobacco product.
      VAPOR PRODUCT.  Any noncombustible product that employs a mechanical
heating element, battery or circuit and that can be used to heat a nicotine
solution; or a cartridge or other unit containing a nicotine solution to be
placed in an electronic cigarette, device or product.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2014-06-01, passed 6-10-2014) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.10 PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall enter, visit, or loiter in or
about a public card room, poolroom, or billiard parlor.
   (B)   No person operating or assisting in the operation of a public card
room, poolroom, or billiard parlor shall permit a person under 18 years of age
to engage in a game of cards, pool, billiard, dice, or games of chance, for
amusement or otherwise.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to playing billiards or pool in a
recreational facility. As used in this section, RECREATIONAL FACILITY means an
area, enclosure, or room in which facilities are offered to the public to play
billiards or pool for amusement only and:
      (1)   Is clean, adequately supervised, adequately lighted, and
ventilated;
      (2)   No alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed; and
      (3)   Where access does not require passing through a room where
alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 PROVIDING LIQUOR TO MINORS.
   No person shall sell, give, serve, or otherwise make available any alcoholic
liquor to a minor, except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF LIQUOR BY MINOR.
   (A)   Except as provided in this chapter, no minor shall attempt to
purchase, purchase, or acquire, or have in his or her possession, alcoholic
liquor.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, possession of alcoholic liquor
includes acceptance or consumption of a bottle of the liquor, or any portion of
it, or a drink of the liquor. However, this section does not prohibit a person
from accepting or consuming sacramental wine as part of a religious rite or
service.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 LAWFUL CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR BY MINOR.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting a parent or other
responsible relative of a minor from giving the minor alcoholic liquor and
permitting the minor to consume it within the home of the parent or other
responsible relative, or at another private place not in view of the public
where the parent or other responsible relative is present.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.14 PURCHASE OF PROPERTY FROM MINORS.
   No person shall purchase any property or article of value from a minor, or
have dealings respecting the title of property in the possession of a minor
without the written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, no person shall intentionally
or recklessly:
      (1)   Subject any animal under human custody or control to cruel
mistreatment;
      (2)   Subject any animal under his or her custody or control to cruel
neglect; and/or
      (3)   Kill without legal privilege any animal under the custody or
control of another, or any wild bird.
   (B)   As used in this section, animal includes birds.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 POISONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall put out or place poison where it is liable to be eaten by
cattle, sheep, horses, hogs, dogs, or other domestic animals.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 POLICE AND FIRE COMMUNICATIONS.
   Interference with police:
   (A)   No person shall hinder, delay, obstruct, or resist, or refuse to
assist any police officer or person duly empowered with police authority who is
acting in the discharge of his or her duty.
   (B)   No person shall offer, or endeavor to assist, any person in the
custody of a police officer or a person duly empowered with police authority,
to escape, or attempt to escape form custody.
   (C)   No person shall impersonate, falsely assume, or pretend to be a law
enforcement officer.
   (D)   No person shall use, or permit the use of, property for planning or
promoting criminal activities or violations of city ordinances.
   (E)   No person shall operate any generator or electromagnetic wave, or
cause a disturbance of the magnitude so as to interfere with the proper
functioning of any police radio communication system of the city.
   (F)   No person shall knowingly make or file with the Police Department of
the city any false, misleading, or unfounded statement or report concerning the
commission, or alleged commission of any crime.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-130.17, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.18 DELIVERIES TO PRISONERS.
   No person shall deliver, by any means, intoxicating liquor, dangerous drugs,
or narcotics, as defined by state law, to a person confined in the city
detention facility or attempt to convey or deliver any article to a prisoner
without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 OBSTRUCTION OF BUILDING ENTRANCES.
   No person shall obstruct an entrance to a building.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 OPEN CELLAR DOORS OR GRATES.
   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit a cellar door or grate
located in or on a sidewalk or public pathway to remain open unless the
entrance is being used and, when being used, there are adequate safeguards for
pedestrians using the sidewalk.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.21 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No owner of property adjacent to a street upon which a fire hydrant is
located shall place or maintain a bush, shrub, or tree or other obstruction
within 8 feet of the fire hydrant.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 VENDING GOODS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall use or occupy a portion of the street or sidewalk for the
purpose of vending goods, wares, or merchandise by public outcry unless a
license has been obtained.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 RESERVED.
§ 130.24 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall disturb the peace by:
      (1)   Participating or abetting in any rude, indecent, riotous, or
violent conduct;
      (2)   Using any vulgar, obscene, or abusive language in any public place;
      (3)   Committing any obscene, indecent or immoral act in any public
place; and/or
      (4)   Inciting any other person to commit a breach of the peace.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit any disorderly conduct on any
premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991Am. Ord. 2007-130.24, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.25 LODGING.
   No person shall lodge in a car, outbuilding, or other place not intended for
that purpose without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 SELLING OR PLEDGING PROPERTY OF INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No person shall purchase property from a person who is in an intoxicated
condition or under the influence of a narcotic drug, or advance, loan money to,
or have dealings with the person respecting the title to property.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall attach or cause to be attached a placard, bill,
advertisement, or poster upon real or personal property, whether public or
private, without first securing permission from the owner or person in control
of the property. This section shall not be construed as an amendment to or a
repeal of any city regulation of the use and location of signs.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 HAULING.
   No person shall haul sand, gravel, rock, wood, or other substance in a
vehicle or conveyance that is so constructed or in the condition as to allow
the sand, gravel, rock, wood, or other substance to fall on and litter public
streets.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 OFFENSES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   This chapter applies to acts committed on property owned or leased by the
city that is outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.30 SOLICITING OR CONFEDERATING TO VIOLATE ORDINANCES.
   No person shall solicit aid, employ or engage another, or confederate with
another to violate a provision of any city ordinance.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.31 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSES.
   A person who attempts to commit an offense mentioned in this chapter or any
ordinance of the city but who, for any reason, is prevented from consummating
the act is guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.32 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew; generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and a civil violation for any child under the
age of 18 years to be in or remain in or upon any street, alley, park or other
public place between the hours specified herein. The child shall be exempted if
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person of the age of 18 years or
more, specially chosen by the parent or o guardian to escort the child on the
occasion in question, or by a person over 18 years of age having the care and
custody of the child, or the child shall be exempted if engaged in any
entertainment, night school, or employment which requires his or her presence
in or upon the public places during the nighttime between the specified hours,
or the minor shall be exempted if emancipated pursuant to O.R.S. 109.550
through 109.565.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the applicable hours shall be: as
to children 14 years who have not begun high school, between 9:15 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. of the following morning, except that during the months of June, July, and
August the hours shall be between 10:15 and 6:00 a.m. of the following morning;
as to children 14 years of age or over or who have begun high school, the hours
shall be between 10:15 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and
6:00 a.m. of the following morning and between 12:00 a.m. midnight on Friday
and Saturday or on any day prior to a legal holiday, when no school is
scheduled for the legal holiday, and 6:00 a.m. of the following morning, except
that during the months of June, July, and August, the hours shall be between
12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 am. of the following morning for any day of the
week.
      (3)   Any child under the age of 18 years whose employment requires his
or her presence in or upon public places contrary to this section shall obtain
from the employer, and the employer shall issue to the employed child, a card
evidencing the employment. A child failing to carry and produce the card shall
not be deemed to be within the protection of the preceding provision.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful and a civil violation for any parent or
guardian or the person having the care or custody of any child under the age of
18 years to permit or by inefficient control to allow the child to be in or
remain in or upon any street, alley, park, or other public place contrary to
the provision of this section. Proof that the child was on any street, alley,
park, or other public place at a time prohibited shall be sufficient evidence
to sustain a conviction of a violation.
   (B)   When section does not apply. This section does not apply to a minor
who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On a errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that o takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 2007-130.36, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.33 LOITERING.
   (A)   No person shall loiter or prowl at a time or place or in a manner not
unusual for law abiding person under circumstances that warrant alarm for the
safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall remain in the area of a business after
the business has been closed.
(Ord. 2007-130.37, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.34 OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   Destroying official signs. No person shall willfully deface, or tear
down, any official notice or bulletin or any official sign or signal posted or
placed in conformity with the law.
   (B)   Damage to property.
      (1)   No person shall willfully or negligently cut, remove, deface, or in
any manner injure or damage real or personal property of the city within or
without the corporate limits.
      (2)   No person, other than a properly authorized employee of the city,
shall willfully or negligently cut, destroy, remove, or injure any plant,
flower, shrub, tree, or bush growing or standing upon any street or alley in
the city, or upon any property owned or controlled by the city within or
without the corporate limits; provided, however, this section shall not be
construed to prohibit the owner of land abutting upon any street or alley from
cutting, trimming, injuring, or removing any tree or trees growing or standing
upon the street or alley adjoining and immediately adjacent to his or her
property.
      (3)   No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, or willfully break or
destroy any property, real or personal, belonging to or under the control of
another.
      (4)   No person shall lead, ride, or allow any goat, horse, cow, sheep,
swine, or similar animal upon any sidewalk within the city or in a city park,
nor shall any person tie or fasten the animal in such a manner as to permit it
to go upon any sidewalk or do damage to a city park.
   (C)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   No person or group of persons upon any sidewalk shall so gather or
stand as to prevent, impede, or obstruct the free passage of pedestrian
traffic.
      (2)   No person or persons shall fail or refuse to disperse when lawfully
ordered to do so by any police officer.
      (3)   No person shall permit any cellar door or grate located in or upon
a sidewalk to remain open, except when the entrance is being used, and when
being used, the entrance shall be opened only with proper safeguards to protect
pedestrians using the sidewalk.
   (D)   Damage or theft of public records, documents.
      (1)   No person shall without proper authority take or remove any public
record, document, book, paper, or personal property of any kind owned by the
city.
      (2)   No person without proper authority shall mutilate or destroy any
public record, document, book, or paper on file or kept on record in an public
office of the city.
      (3)   No person shall retain any public record, document, book, or paper
after lawful demand has been made for the return of it.
(Ord. 2007-130.38, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.35 BEGGING; AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING.
   (A)   Generally. The purpose of this section and legislation is to regulate
certain acts done with the act of panhandling, rather than the status of the
person.
   (B)   Exclusion. The activities of panhandling do not include a person who
passively stands or sits with a sign or other indication that one is seeking
donations, without addressing any solicitation to any specific person other
than in response to an inquiry by that person.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      AGGRESSIVELY BEG. To beg with the intent to intimidate another person
into giving money or goods.
      ASSAULT. Assaultive offenses as set out in statutes of the state of
Oregon, and classified as criminal offenses.
      BEG. To ask for money or goods as a charity or gift, whether by words,
bodily gesture, signs, or other means.
      DONATION. Any item of value, monetary or otherwise.
      EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS. Any nonprofit, religious, civic or benevolent
organization described in Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of the
United States.
      INTIMIDATE. To engage intentionally in conduct which would make a
reasonable person fearful or feel compelled.
      OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN or VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
         (a)   When a person without legal privilege, intentionally, knowingly
or recklessly walks, stands, sits, lies, or places an object in such a manner
as another person or a driver of a vehicle has to take evasive action to avoid
physical contact.
         (b)   Acts authorized as an exercise of one's constitutional right to
picket, or to legally protest, and acts authorized by a permit issued pursuant
to this section shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
      PANHANDLER. Any person, other than an exempt organization, acting on his
or her own behalf, requesting an immediate donation of money or exchange of any
services; or any person, acting on his or her own behalf, attempting to sell an
item for an amount far exceeding its value, or where said item is already
offered free-of-charge to the general public, and a reasonable person would
understand that the purchase is in substance a donation.
      PANHANDLING. The solicitation of any item of value, monetary or
otherwise, made by a person, other than an exempt organization, acting on his
or her own behalf, requesting an immediate donation of money or exchange of any
services; or any person, acting on his or her own behalf, attempting to sell an
item for an amount far exceeding its value, or an item which already offered
free-of-charge to the general public, and under circumstances a reasonable
person would understand that the purchase is in substance a donation.
      PEDESTRIAN INTERFERENCE. The obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic by aggressively begging which impedes the lawful passage of a
pedestrian or a vehicle.
      PERMIT. The permit required under this section.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place that is generally visible to public view and
includes, alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas,
sidewalks and streets open to the general public and the doorways and entrances
to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
   (C)   Permits.
      (1)   Permit required. Any person panhandling within the below described
geographical or restricted areas shall be required to have a permit, as issued
by the permit office of the city, in his or her possession at all times,
subject to exhibition demand to any city officer or employee, and shall be
subject to conditions as set out in divisions (D), (E), (F), (G), and (H).
      (2)   Restricted geographical areas. Without a permit, persons shall be
restricted from panhandling in the following geographical areas: public parks,
schools and playgrounds; municipal or governmentally owned offices; municipally
owned recreational and exhibition buildings; public library facilities; public
or dedicated thoroughfares; private properties or shopping malls; unless the
owner, lessee, or person in charge has granted permission.
   (D)   Time of panhandling. Any person who panhandles after sunset or before
sunrise is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Place of panhandling. Any person who panhandles when the person
solicited is in any of the following places is guilty of a misdemeanor:
      (1)   At any bus stop;
      (2)   In any public transportation vehicle or facility including loading
and unloading areas;
      (3)   In any vehicle on the street;
      (4)   On private property, unless the panhandler has permission from the
owner, occupant or person in charge of the private property.
   (F)   Manner of panhandling. Any person who in a public place panhandles in
any of the following ways or manner is guilty of a misdemeanor:
      (1)   By using profane or abusive language, either during the
solicitation or following a refusal;
      (2)   By panhandling in a group of 2 or more persons;
      (3)   By any statement, gesture, or other communication which a
reasonable person in the situation of the person solicited would perceive to be
a threat;
      (4)   By intimidating;
      (5)   By obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (6)   By assaulting or aggressively begging.
   (G)   False or misleading solicitation.   
      (1)   Any person who knowingly makes any false or misleading
representation in the course of soliciting a donation is guilty of a
misdemeanor. False or misleading representations include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a specific need,
when the solicitor already has sufficient funds to meet the need and does not
disclose that fact.
         (b)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a need which does
not exist.
         (c)   Stating that the solicitor is from out of town and stranded,
when that is not true.
         (d)   Wearing a military uniform or other indication of military
service, when the solicitor is neither a present nor former member of the
service indicated.
         (e)   Wearing or displaying an indication of physical disability, when
the solicitor does not suffer the disability indicated.
         (f)   Use of any makeup or device to simulate any deformity.
         (g)   Stating that the solicitor is homeless, when he or she is not.
         (h)   Stating the donation is for food but in reality is not needed
for food.
         (i)   Using and exposing minors to hazardous conditions including but
not limited to cold, heat, animals, weather and strangers, to solicit funds.
         (j)   To offer to sell newspapers, magazines, periodicals, pamphlets
for a price, which are offered free of charge to the general public.
      (2)   Any person who solicits a donation stating that the funds are
needed for a specific purpose and then spends the funds received for a
different purpose is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (H)   Accosting persons or obstructing traffic. Every person who commits any
of the following acts is guilty of a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Who assaults, aggressively begs, intimidates or accosts other
persons in any public place or in any place open to the public, for the purpose
of panhandling or soliciting a donation for immediate payment.
      (2)   Obstructs pedestrian or a vehicle.
(Ord. 2007-60.24, passed 4-10-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   When in any city ordinance, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or doing an act is required, or the failure to do an
act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, each day a violation continues
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.37 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   No provision in this chapter shall preclude abatement of a nuisance as
provided in
Chapter 90.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.38 APPLICATION OF STATE STATUTES.
   Provisions of the Oregon Criminal Code of 1971, as now constituted, relating
to defenses, burden of proof, general principles of criminal liability,
parties, and general principles of justification apply to offenses defined and
made punishable by this chapter.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.39 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Ordinances repealed shall remain in force to authorize the arrest,
prosecution, conviction, and punishment of a person who violated the ordinances
prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 130.40 SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Policy declared. The city, in furtherance of the public health, safety
and welfare, hereby declares that:
      (1)   It is a matter of public concern and importance to maintain city
buildings as smoke-free places for its employees and citizens, to maintain city
parks, parking lots and city vehicles free from smoke and the hazards of
second-hand smoke for the safe, healthful, undisturbed use and enjoyment of all
of its citizens and employees. This applies to the smoking of tobacco and
marijuana products and any other material that may be smoked or otherwise
inhaled.
      (2)   The use of smokeless forms of tobacco, such as snuff, chewing
tobacco and dipping tobacco is similarly harmful to the public health, safety
and welfare and inconsistent with the city’s mission of providing healthy and
safe recreational, relaxation and social opportunities in its parks.
      (3)   The use of vapor, e-cigarettes and similar nicotine delivery
systems that produces steam or water vapor in public parks, buildings and on
city-owned property is similarly harmful to the public health, safety and
welfare and inconsistent with the city’s mission of providing healthy and safe
recreational, relaxation and social opportunities in its parks. Such water
vapor-based nicotine delivery systems produce a smoke-like vapor that causes
confusion in children, adults and even law enforcement officials as to whether
it is a traditional cigarette and real tobacco smoke.
      (4)   Cigarettes, cigars and smoke-less forms of tobacco produce litter
that frequently accumulates in public places, including city parks, parking
lots and the public right-of-way. Such litter is inconsistent with the city’s
objective of keeping a neat, clean and litter-free environment in its parks and
public places. Litter pick-up and trash removal from city parks and public
places is a significant maintenance item that consumes limited public
resources.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY PARK. Any public park owned or operated for public use by the City
of Banks and so designated, and includes all sidewalks, streets and public
rights-of-way immediately adjacent thereto.
      MARIJUANA. The meaning given that term in O.R.S. 475.005.
      SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling, burning, heating or carrying of any
lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, grass, plant, liquid, extract, condensate,
vapor or any other tobacco or marijuana (plants of the genus Cannabis) product,
or substance in any form. SMOKING includes the use of any electronic smoking
device that creates a smoke-like vapor containing any nicotine or nicotine
derivative.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that contains tobacco or is derived from
tobacco and is intended to be inhaled, ingested into the human body or absorbed
into the human bloodstream. TOBACCO PRODUCT includes all electronic smoking
devices and nicotine delivery devices and products, but does not mean tobacco
use cessation products approved for that use by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. TOBACCO PRODUCT also includes all forms of smoke-less tobacco
such as snuff, snews, chewing tobacco and dipping tobacco.
      USING A TOBACCO PRODUCT. Smoking, chewing, ingesting, inhaling, sniffing,
dipping, exhaling, vaping and any other means of ingestion, absorption or
consumption of a tobacco product.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product that employs a mechanical
heating element, battery or circuit and that can be used to heat a nicotine
solution, or a cartridge or other unit containing a nicotine solution to be
placed in an electronic cigarette, device or product.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to
engage to any of the following activities in city-owned buildings, in a city
park, in or on a city-owned vehicle, and in a city-owned parking lot.
      (1)   Using a tobacco product.
      (2)   Smoking marijuana.
      (3)   Smoking or otherwise using or inhaling a vapor product.
(Ord. 2015-03-01, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of a provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not
to exceed $500. The maximum penalty for a violation of this chapter shall not
exceed the maximum penalty prescribed for a substantially similar offense
prescribed by the current Oregon Criminal Code.
   (B)   A violation of §
130.40 is a civil infraction that may be prosecuted pursuant to
Chapter 37 (Civil Enforcement) of the Banks Code of Ordinances, or in any other
manner provided by law, and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500
per violation. Each instance of a violation of §
130.40 shall be deemed a separate citable infraction.
(Ord. 60.01, passed 1-8-1991; Am. Ord. 2009-01-02, passed 1-13-2009; Am. Ord.
2010-01-01, passed 1-12-2010; Am. Ord. 2015-03-01, passed 7-14-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
151.   ZONING CODE
   
152.   LAND DIVISION REGULATIONS
   
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
154.   UNIFORM HOUSE NUMBERING AND STREET IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Nuisances declared
   
150.03   Initial action
   
150.04   Mailed notice
   
150.05   Published and posted notices
   
150.06   Hearing
   
150.07   Council orders; notice
   
150.08   Abatement by the city
   
150.09   Assessment
   
150.10   Summary abatement
   
150.11   Errors in procedure
Planning Commission
   
150.25   Costs incurred in appealing Planning Commission decision
 
   
150.99   Penalty
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Structure that, for lack of proper repairs, or because of age and
dilapidated condition or of poorly installed electrical wiring or equipment,
defective chimney, gas connection, or heating apparatus, or for any other
reason, is liable to cause fire, and which is situated or occupied in a manner
that endangers other property or human life;
      (2)   A structure containing combustible or explosive materials or
inflammable substances liable to cause fire or danger to the safety of the
building, premises, or to human life;
      (3)   A structure that is in a filthy or unsanitary condition liable to
cause the spread of contagious or infectious disease; and/or
      (4)   A structure in such weak dilapidated or deteriorated condition that
it endangers a person or property because of the probability of partial or
entire collapse.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.02 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   Every building found by the Council to be a dangerous building is declared
to be a public nuisance and may be abated by the procedures specified in this
subchapter or by a suit for abatement brought by the city.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 INITIAL ACTION.
   When a city official determines that there is a dangerous building, the
official shall report it to the council. The Council shall, within a reasonable
time, fix a time and place for a public hearing.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.04 MAILED NOTICE.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall notify the owner of the building and, if not
the same person, the owner of the property on which the building is situated.
The notice shall state:
      (1)   That a hearing will be held concerning the nuisance character of
the property; and
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
   (B)   A copy of this notice shall be posted on the property.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.05 PUBLISHED AND POSTED NOTICES.
   Ten-days notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by posting notices in a clear and visible location
on the property and at City Hall.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.06 HEARING.
   (A)   At the hearing, the owner or other persons interested in the dangerous
building shall have a right to be heard.
   (B)   Council shall have the building inspected and may consider facts
observed in determining if the building is dangerous.
   (C)   If the Council determines that the building is dangerous, the Council
may by resolution:
      (1)   Order the building to be abated; or
      (2)   Order the building to be made safe and prescribe what must be done
to make it safe.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.07 COUNCIL ORDERS; NOTICE.
   Five-days’ notice of the Council’s findings and any orders made by the
Council shall be given to the owner of the building, the owner’s agent or other
person controlling it. If the orders are not obeyed and the building not made
safe within the time specified by the order (not less than 5 days), the Council
may order the building demolished or made safe at the expense of the property
on which it is situated.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.08 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If the Council orders are not complied with, the Council may:
      (1)   Specify the work to be done;
      (2)   File a statement with the Recorder; and
      (3)   Advertise for bids for doing the work in the manner provided for
advertising for bids for street improvement work.
   (B)   Bids shall be received, opened, and the contract let.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.09 ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The Council shall determine the probably cost of the work and assess
the cost against the property upon the work and assess the cost against the
property upon which the building is situated. The assessment shall be declared
by resolution, and it shall be entered in the docket of city liens and become a
lien against the property.
   (B)   The creation of the lien and the collection and enforcement of the
cost shall be performed in substantially the same manner as assessments for
street improvements.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.10 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedures of this subchapter need not be followed if a building is
unmistakably dangerous and imminently endangers human life or property. In this
instance, the Chief of the Fire Department, the Fire Marshal, or the Chief of
Police may summarily take steps needed to make this building safe.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
§ 150.11 ERRORS IN PROCEDURE.
   Failure to conform to the requirements of this subchapter that does not
substantially affect a legal right of a person does not invalidate a proceeding
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 150.25 COSTS INCURRED IN APPEALING PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION.
   (A)   The costs incurred in processing an appeal of Banks Planning
Commission land use decisions shall be paid by the appellant, to the City
Recorder. These costs shall include:
      (1)   A $300 nonrefundable filing fee that shall be used to pay for the
costs of the appeal. This fee does not include transcription costs;
      (2)   The cost of any request by the applicant for transcription of any
recorded hearing; and
      (3)   All costs of the appeal exceeding the $300 filing fee. These costs
will be billed to the appellant. This bill is payable by the appellant to the
Banks City Recorder within 15 days of appellant’s receipt of the bill. It is
understood under the terms of this resolution that the appellant is the person
(s) filing the appeal.
   (B)   This section is necessary to secure sufficient funds to pay for the
actual expenses incurred by the City of Banks to process appeals of land use
decisions to the Banks City Council. Because the city does not have an ordnance
to provide for the cost of land use appeals, an emergency exists to cover the
costs. Thus this section shall be in full force and effect immediately upon
passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 12-19.2-95, passed 12-19-1995)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who owns or is in possession or in charge of a dangerous
building, and who allows the building to remain dangerous for as long as 10
days after receipt of the notice specified in §
150.07, may be fined not more than $1,000. Each day following the tenth day
after receipt of notice that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. 30.01, passed 1-8-1991)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purposes
   
151.003   Highest standard applies
   
151.004   Requirement versus guideline
   
151.005   Lot of record and legal determination
   
151.006   Code interpretations
   
151.007   Enforcement
   
151.008   Definitions
   
151.009   Calculations
   
151.010   Dwellings located outside city limits
Establishment of Zones and Overlay Zones
   
151.020   Zones
   
151.021   Overlay zones
   
151.022   Zoning classifications
   
151.023   Location of zones and overlay zones
   
151.024   Zoning map
   
151.025   Zoning of annexed areas
Residential Zoning Regulations
   
151.035   Purpose
   
151.036   Permitted land uses in residential zones
   
151.037   Development standards for residential zones
   
151.038   Accessory uses and structures
Nonresidential Zoning Regulations
   
151.050   Purpose
   
151.051   Community Facilities Zone; permitted land uses
   
151.052   Commercial zones; permitted land uses
   
151.053   General Industrial Zone; permitted land uses
   
151.054   Development standards for nonresidential zones
Overlay Zones
   
151.065   Historic Resource Overlay Zone H
Special Use Standards
   
151.075   Accessory dwelling unit
   
151.076   Manufactured home park
   
151.077   Home occupations
   
151.078   Live/work residence
   
151.079   Commercial uses in residential zones
   
151.080   Medical marijuana and recreational marijuana
   
151.081   Drive-through facilities
   
151.082   Bed and breakfast
   
151.083   Auto wrecking yards or junk yards
   
151.084   Natural resource extraction
   
151.085   Temporary uses
General Exceptions to Standards
   
151.095   General exceptions to lot size requirements
   
151.096   General exceptions to front yard requirements
   
151.097   General exception to building height limitations
   
151.098   Projections from buildings
Commercial Building Design
   
151.110   Purpose
   
151.111   Applicability
Residential Building Design
   
151.125   Purpose
   
151.126   Residential design standards
   
151.127   Design standards for cottage clusters
On-Site Pedestrian Access and Circulation
   
151.140   Purpose
   
151.141   Applicability
   
151.142   Standards
Landscaping, Screening and Fencing
   
151.155   Landscaping requirements
   
151.156   Screening and buffering
   
151.157   Fences
Parking and Loading
   
151.170   Purpose
   
151.171   General provisions
   
151.172   Number of required parking spaces
   
151.173   Parking determination
   
151.174   Off-street parking design standards
   
151.175   Parking lot landscaping
   
151.176   Parking lot enclosure and screening
   
151.177   Bicycle parking
   
151.178   Off-street loading requirement
Outdoor Lighting
   
151.190   Purpose
   
151.191   Applicability
   
151.192   Standard
Vision Clearance Requirements
   
151.205   Vision clearance requirements
Public Facilities
   
151.215   Transportation facilities
   
151.216   City may require traffic impact analysis
   
151.217   When traffic impact study is required; preparation
   
151.218   Performance bonds
Applications and Review Procedures
   
151.230   Purpose and applicability
   
151.231   Type I procedure (staff review and zoning checklist)
   
151.232   Type II procedure (administrative review with notice)
   
151.233   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial review; public hearing)
   
151.234   Type IV (legislative decisions)
   
151.235   Time limit, consolidated review and City Planning Official's duties
   
151.236   Neighborhood contact
   
151.237   Filing fees
   
151.238   Time limit on land use approvals
Site Design Review
   
151.250   Purpose
   
151.251   Applicability
   
151.252   Review procedure
   
151.253   Application submission requirements
   
151.254   Approval criteria
   
151.255   Assurances
   
151.256   Compliance with conditions, permit expiration and modifications
Conditional Use Permits
   
151.270   Purpose
   
151.271   Approvals process
   
151.272   Application submission requirements
   
151.273   Criteria, standards and conditions of approval
Modifications to Approved Plans and Conditions
   
151.285   Purpose
   
151.286   Applicability
   
151.287   Major modifications
   
151.288   Minor modifications
Amendments to Comprehensive Plan Map,  Zoning Map or Code
   
151.300   Purpose
   
151.301   Authorization to initiate and approve amendments
   
151.302   Procedure
   
151.303   Criteria
   
151.304   Record of amendments
   
151.305   Transportation planning rule compliance
   
151.306   Limitation on reapplications
Adjustments and Variances
   
151.320   Purpose
   
151.321   Intent
   
151.322   Adjustments
   
151.323   Variances
   
151.324   Expiration
Master Planned Developments
   
151.335   Purpose
   
151.336   Applicability
   
151.337   Review and approvals process
   
151.338   Modifications to development standards
   
151.339   Concept plan submission
   
151.340   Concept plan approval criteria
   
151.341   Concept plan and expiration
   
151.342   Detailed development plan submission
   
151.343   Detailed development plan approval criteria
   
151.344   Subsequent development reviews
Nonconforming Situations
   
151.355   Purpose and applicability
Flood Damage Prevention
   
151.365   Purpose
   
151.366   Definitions
   
151.367   Applicability
   
151.368   Basis for establishing the area of special flood hazard
   
151.369   Penalties for nonconformance
   
151.370   Abrogation and severability
   
151.371   Interpretation
   
151.372   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.373   Establishment of development permit
   
151.374   Designation of local Floodplain Administrator
   
151.375   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
   
151.376   General standards
   
151.377   Specific standards
   
151.378   Before regulatory floodway
   
151.379   Floodway
   
151.380   Standards for shallow flooding areas (AO Zones)
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Banks Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.002 PURPOSES.
   The several purposes of this chapter are: to encourage the most appropriate
use of land; to conserve and stabilize the value of property; to aid in the
rendering of fire and police protection; to provide adequate open space for
light and air; to lessen the congestion on streets; to give an orderly growth
to the city; to prevent undue concentrations of population; to facilitate
adequate provisions for community utilities and facilities such as water,
sewage, electrical distribution systems, transportation, schools, parks, and
other public requirements; to promote economic prosperity; and in general to
promote public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.003 HIGHEST STANDARD APPLIES.
   Where a provision of this chapter conflicts with another chapter or
ordinance, the provision or requirements that are more restrictive shall
govern.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.004 REQUIREMENT VERSUS GUIDELINE.
   The use of the word "shall," "must," "required," or similar directive terms,
means the Code provision is a requirement. The use of the word "should,"
"encouraged," "recommended," or similar terms, means the provision is a
guideline, which may be imposed as a requirement, but only where the applicable
code criteria allow the city decision-making authority to exercise such
discretion.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.005 LOT OF RECORD AND LEGAL LOT DETERMINATION.
   The Planning Official, through a Type I land use decision procedure, shall
process requests to validate a lot of record. A property owner may request the
city deem a lot or parcel a "lot of record." The City Planning Official shall
find that a lot of record exists when a lot or parcel was lawfully created
prior to the effective date of this Code. Two or more lawfully created lots or
parcels subject to a lot of record validation request which are nonconforming
to the zoning code, contiguous and under identical ownership shall be combined
into one lot of record, except if the creation of the lot(s) or parcel(s) was
approved by the city or Washington County under applicable partition or
subdivision regulations. A lot of record determination does not authorize a use
or development that does not comply with other provisions of this Code. When
decided by the Planning Commission, appeals are made to the City Council and
subsequently to the Land Use Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.006 CODE INTERPRETATIONS.
   Some terms or phrases within this Code may be unclear or have 2 or more
reasonable meanings. This section provides a process for resolving differences
in the interpretation of the Code text.
   (A)   Authorization of similar uses. Where a proposed use is not
specifically identified by this Code, or the Code is unclear as to whether the
use is allowed in a particular zone, the Planning Official may find the use
permitted or allowed subject to conditional use permit only if it is found to
be similar to another use that is permitted or allowed conditionally in the
subject zone. However, uses and activities that this Code specifically
prohibits in the subject zone, and uses and activities that the Planning
Official finds are similar to those that are prohibited, are not allowed.
   (B)   Code interpretation procedure. Requests for code interpretations,
including but not limited to similar use determinations, shall be made in
writing to the Planning Official and shall be processed as a Type II review per
§
151.232.
      (1)   The Planning Official may request the matter be heard by the
Planning Commission through a Type III process. If so, the Planning Official
within 14 days of the inquiry shall advise the person making the inquiry in
writing as to when the Planning Commission will make a formal interpretation.
      (2)   Where an interpretation requires discretion, the Planning Official
shall inform the person making the request that Planning Commission review is
required and advise the applicant on how to make the request. At a minimum, an
application for code interpretation shall include a letter citing the nature
and reasons for the request and the city fee for quasi-judicial review. The
Planning Commission then shall review relevant background information,
including but not limited to other relevant Code sections and previous city
land use decisions, and follow the quasi-judicial review and public hearing
decision making procedures in §
151.233.
   (C)   Referral to City Council. Where a code interpretation may have
significant citywide policy implications, the Planning Commission may bypass
the Type III procedure and refer the request directly to the City Council for
its legislative review in a public hearing; such public hearings shall be
conducted following the procedure of §
151.234.
   (D)   Written interpretation. Following the city decision on a code
interpretation application, the Planning Official shall mail or deliver the
city's decision in writing to the person requesting it, to any other person who
specifically requested a copy of the decision, and to those who provided public
testimony, as applicable. The decision shall become effective when the appeal
period for the decision expires.
   (E)   Interpretations on file. The city shall keep on file a record of its
code interpretations.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of this chapter or a provision of any permit or land use
decision approved under the authority of this chapter is a civil infraction and
a nuisance, enforceable under the provisions of
Chapter 37, Civil Enforcement, and any other lawful remedy or procedure,
including a suit for declaratory and injunctive relief in Circuit Court. The
city is entitled to recover its reasonable enforcement costs expended in any
such enforcement action to applicable fines and penalties.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. The right to cross between public and private property allowing
pedestrians and vehicles to enter and leave property.
   ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A use or structure incidental and
subordinate to the main use of the property and located on the same lot as the
main use. Accessory structures are of secondary importance or function on the
site, and are generally smaller than and detached from the primary structure.
   ALLEY. A street which affords only a secondary means of access to property.
   ALTERATION. The vertical or horizontal addition to, removal of or from, or
physical modification of any exterior part or portion of a historic site or
structure. The addition of exterior signs, walls, fences, decks, porches, and
the like shall be considered an alteration.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS. A business providing direct services for motor
vehicles. Includes gas stations, car washes, and quick lubrication services.
Accessory uses may include minor auto repair and tire sales.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   DAYCARE FACILITY. Institution providing daytime care for children or adults
that is subject to state licensing requirements.
   DENSITY. A measurement of the number of dwelling units in relationship to a
specified amount of land. For information on how to calculate density, see §
151.009.
   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including alterations to land and
new or remodeled structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or
graveled areas, and areas devoted to exterior display, storage, or activities.
   DWELLING TYPES.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. An interior, attached, or detached residential
structure that is used in connection with, or that is accessory to, a single-
family dwelling.
      COTTAGE CLUSTER. A grouping of no fewer than 4 detached dwelling units
per acre, each with a footprint of no more than 900 square feet, located on a
single lot or parcel that includes a common area.
      DETACHED SINGLE DWELLING. A detached building containing 1 dwelling unit
and designed for occupancy by 1 household only.
      DUPLEX. Two dwelling units on a lot or parcel in any configuration
(attached or detached, stacked or side-by-side). In instances where a
development can meet the definition of a duplex and also meets the definition
of a primary dwelling unit with an accessory dwelling unit (ADU), the applicant
shall specify at the time of application review whether the development is
considered a duplex or a primary dwelling unit with an ADU.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building that are designed for
occupancy by 1 household and that have not more than 1 cooking facility, but
not a mobile home.
      FOURPLEX. Four dwelling units on a lot or parcel in any configuration
(attached or detached, stacked or side-by-side).
      HOUSEHOLD. A social unit composed of those living together in the same
dwelling and sharing living space and kitchen facilities.
      MULTI-DWELLING. More than 4 dwelling units on a lot or parcel. The
dwelling units may be located in 1 or more structures on the lot or parcel. The
dwelling units may be arranged with 1 dwelling unit per structure or with
multiple dwelling units within a structure that are separated vertically and/or
horizontally. Multi-dwelling developments may include structures that are
similar in form to townhouses, cottage clusters, duplexes, or single detached
dwellings.
      TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit constructed in a row of 2 or more attached
units, where each dwelling unit is located on an individual lot or parcel and
shares at least 1 common wall with an adjacent unit.
      TRIPLEX. Three dwelling units on a lot or parcel in any configuration
(attached or detached, stacked or side-by-side).
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A home that is registered or certified by the Oregon
Department of Education Office of Child Care to provide child care in the
provider's home to not more than 16 children, including children of the
provider, regardless of full-time or part-time status.
   FRONTAGE. All of the property fronting on 1 side of a street that is between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a water feature
or end of a dead-end street.
   GRADE, GROUND LEVEL. The average elevation of the finished ground elevation
at the centers of all walls of a building, except that if a wall is parallel to
and within 5 feet of a sidewalk, the sidewalk elevation nearest the center of
the wall shall constitute the ground elevation.
   GROSS ACRES. The total land area of a site measured in acres, which includes
in its measurement public streets or other areas to be dedicated or reserved
for public use.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of all floors of a building. Floor area is
measured for each floor from the exterior faces of a building or structure.
Floor area includes stairwells, ramps, shafts, chases, and the area devoted to
garages and structured parking. Floor area does not include the following:
      (1)   Areas where the elevation of the floor is 4 feet or more below the
adjacent right-of-way;
      (2)   Roof area, including rooftop parking;
      (3)   Rooftop mechanical equipment; and
      (4)   Roofed porches, exterior balconies, or other similar areas, unless
they are enclosed by walls that are more than 42 inches in height for 75% or
more of their perimeter.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Substances, which are capable of posing a severe risk
to health, safety, or property. The hazard potential of a substance depends on
its inherent dangerousness, on the quantity of the material at a site, on how
it is stored and how it is used. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS are defined by the U.S.
Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R. pt. 100 through 177. They include
explosives, poisons, corrosives, flammables, combustibles, and the like.
Consumer commodities of hazardous materials are packaged and distributed in a
form intended or suitable for sale through retail outlets or consumption by
individuals for purposes of personal care or household use.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the center height between the highest and lowest points of other types of
roofs.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. An individual structure or site of historic significance
as defined below, and which is designated as such in the Banks Comprehensive
Plan.
   HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE. A building or site with historic significance:
      (1)   Is associated with a significant historic event or with a person,
group of persons, or institution which made a significant contribution to the
community, state, or nation;
      (2)   Represents a distinctive architectural style or building type and
includes distinguishing architectural details, materials, or craftsmanship
characteristic of a historic architectural style; and/or
      (3)   The exterior appearance of the building or site must be generally
unaltered from the period from which it derives its significance.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession carried on by a member or
members of the family residing on the premises, which is accessory and
subordinate to the primary residential use of the property.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE. A measure of traffic conditions at intersections ranging
from A (free flow) through F (severe congestion) expressed as a traffic volume
to street capacity ratio.
   LIVESTOCK. Domestic animals of types customarily raised or kept on farms for
profit or other purposes.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot exclusive
of streets and easements of access to other property.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on 2 or more streets other than an alley, at
their intersection.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating the lot from the street other than
an alley. In the case of a corner lot, the front lot line is the shortest lot
line along a street other than an alley. In the case of a through lot, each
street has a front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line, which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of an irregularly shaped lot, a line 10 feet in
length within the lot parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
ordinarily measured parallel to the front lot line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways, which is designed for use as a permanent residence, but not designed
and built to the specifications of the state or county building code for
conventional structures in effect at the time of its construction and bearing
the US Department of Housing and Urban Development certification label for
manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A place where 2 or more manufactured homes are
located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract, or parcel of land under
the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space
for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or
use of facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade
or patronage of the person.
   MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A development constructed on a tract of land of
at least 2 acres, planned and developed as an integral unit. The final site
development plan functions as a substitute for the site development regulations
of the underlying zoning district.
   MIXED-USE BUILDING. A building that contains a portion of floor area devoted
to allowed residential uses and a portion of floor area devoted to allowed
nonresidential uses.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A lawful existing structure or use at the
time this chapter or any amendment thereto becomes effective, which does not
conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   OWNER. An owner of property or the authorized agent of an owner.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or
fraternal organization, corporation, trust, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch
of government, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   RESIDENTIAL HOME. A residence providing care for 5 or fewer physically or
mentally disabled persons, who need not be related to each other or to any
other home resident. Staff persons required to meet licensing requirements
shall not be counted in the number of facility residents.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or
land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution, or business.
   STREET. A public right-of-way that is open for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. A change to the supporting members of a structure
including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders, or
any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Something constructed or built, or a piece of work artificially
built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner.
   USE. The purpose, for which land or a structure is designed, arranged, or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   VEHICULAR TYPES.
      (1)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Vehicles that have their own motive power and are
used for the transportation of people or goods. MOTOR VEHICLES include
motorcycles, passenger vehicles, trucks, and some types of recreational
vehicles.
      (2)   PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed to carry 10 persons or
less including the driver. PASSENGER VEHICLES include cars, minivans, passenger
vans, and jeeps.
      (3)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motive power, which
is designed for sport or recreational use, or which is designed for human
occupancy on an intermittent basis. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES include campers,
motor homes, vacation trailers, off-road vehicles, dune buggies, and
recreational boats.
      (4)   TRUCK. A motor vehicle which is designed primarily for movement of
property or special purpose equipment, or a motor vehicle that is designed to
carry more than 10 persons. TRUCK includes vehicles commonly called trucks,
pick-ups, delivery vans, buses, and other similar vehicles.
      (5)   LIGHT TRUCK. Light trucks are trucks up to 9,999 pounds gross
weight (gvw). LIGHT TRUCKS include Class 1 and 2 of the U.S. Truck
Classification System. This group generally includes pickups and delivery vans.
      (6)   MEDIUM TRUCK. Medium trucks are trucks from 10,000 pounds to 19,499
pounds gvw. MEDIUM TRUCKS include Class 3 through 5 of the U.S. Truck
Classification System. This group generally includes step-in vans, minibuses,
and some light delivery trucks.
      (7)   HEAVY TRUCK. Heavy trucks are trucks over 19,500 pounds gvw. HEAVY
TRUCKS include Class 6 through 8 of the U.S. Truck Classification System. This
group generally includes larger delivery trucks, tractor-trailers, and heavy
specialty vehicles such as cement mixers and sanitation compactors.
      (8)   UTILITY TRAILER. A vehicle designed to be pulled by a motor
vehicle, which is used to carry property, trash or special equipment. Includes
boat trailers.
   VEHICLE AND FARM EQUIPMENT REPAIR. Firm servicing passenger vehicles, light
and medium trucks and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats
and recreational vehicles, as well as farm equipment under 19,500 pounds gross
vehicle weight. Services may include repairs, painting, upholstery, and
bodywork.
   VISION CLEARANCE AREA. A triangular area of a corner lot at the intersection
of 2 front lot lines, and through which it is necessary to retain vision
clearance in the interest of public safety. The 2 legs of the triangle are of
equal length and coincide with the 2 front lot lines. The apex is located at
the intersection of the front lot lines, extended if  necessary. The base of
the triangle extends diagonally across the corner of the lot intersecting the 2
legs an equal distance from the apex. The size of the triangle and other
requirements are specified in §
151.205.
   YARD. An open space on a lot, which is unobstructed from the ground upward
except as, otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the front lot line to the nearest point of a building or other
structure. See
Figure 1.5-A.
   YARD, REAR. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at right
angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot line to the nearest point of a
building or other structure. See
Figure 1.5-A.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the front and rear yard measured horizontally at
right angles from the side lot line to the nearest point of a building or other
structure. See
Figure 1.5-A.
   YARD, STREET SIDE. A yard adjacent to a street between the front yard and
rear lot line measured horizontally and at right angles from the side lot line
to the nearest point of a building or other structure. See
Figure 1.5-A.
   Figure 1.5-A Yard Areas
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1883.png]
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12- 2021)
§ 151.009 CALCULATIONS.
   Net acres. For subdivisions, net acres are calculated by subtracting rights-
of-ways and open space from gross acres. First, gross acres are reduced by 25%
for rights-of-way; then acres are further reduced by 15% for open space. Net
acreage is not applicable to partitions, except where a private access lane is
created (flag lots) or open space is voluntarily set aside.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.010 DWELLINGS LOCATED OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Dwellings located outside of the Banks City Limits and within the
Banks Urban Growth Boundary may be permitted subject to the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Building permits.
      (1)   The homeowner or their authorized representative shall obtain a
certificate authorizing Washington County to issue a building permit for a new
dwelling. Application shall be made at the city and shall include the following
items:
         (a)   Plot plan showing the dwelling and all other structures,
including all exterior dimensions; building elevations drawings for all sides;
information describing roofing and siding materials, foundation support systems
and materials;
         (b)   A written statement signed by the applicant pledging compliance
with the terms set by the City of Banks and all other conditions of §§
151.050 through
151.054; and
         (c)   Permit filing fee.
      (2)   An approved certificate to obtain a permit shall be issued within
10 days by the City of Banks after receipt of the required information
indicated above.
      (3)   The certificate shall be denied when the applicant fails to provide
the required information, and/or the proposed dwelling does not comply with the
required codes specified herein.
   (C)   Occupancy requirements. Occupancy of the dwelling shall be governed by
the building permit review procedure as administered by Washington County.
   (D)   Building removal. If the dwelling or other structures are removed from
the property and not replaced with another structure within 6 months as
evidenced by a building permit, the owner shall perform the following tasks
unless otherwise authorized by the City of Banks:
      (1)   Remove any foundation and perimeter enclosures;
      (2)   Remove all accessories associated with the dwelling unit;
      (3)   Permanently disconnect and cap off all utilities including sewer,
water, electricity, phone, cable television, and the like in the proper manner
and time frame as may be specified by the utility agency; and/or
      (4)   In the event the owner fails to accomplish the required tasks as
noted above, the City of Banks may perform the work and file a lien against the
property for the cost to perform the work.
   (E)   Building abandonment. When a dwelling has been abandoned (not
occupied) for a period of time which exceeds 5 or more years, the owner shall
request an occupancy inspection and permit approved by the city building
official prior to the dwelling being occupied again.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES AND  OVERLAY ZONES
§ 151.020 ZONES.
   All lands, tracts, and area within the corporate limits of the City of Banks
are hereby included within 1 of the following described land use zones. The
uses of land within the corporate limits of the city shall be limited to those
permitted in the zone within which lands are situated.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.021 OVERLAY ZONES.
   An overlay zone may be applied to any underlying zone. The regulations of an
overlay zone shall be supplementary to and modify the regulations of the
underlying zone.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.022 ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The city is divided into the following zones and overlay, with applicable
abbreviated designation/suffix:
Zones Abbreviation
Zones                            Abbreviation
Residential Estate               RE
Low Density Residential          LDR
Medium Density Residential- Low  MDR-L
Medium Density Residential- High MDR-H
High Density Residential         HDR
Mixed Use                        MU
Community Facilities             CF
General Commercial               C
Downtown Commercial              DC
General Industrial               I
 
 
Overlay Zones             Suffix
Historic Resource Overlay H
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.023 LOCATION OF ZONES AND OVERLAY ZONES.
   (A)   The boundaries for the zones and overlay zones listed in this chapter
are indicated on the City of Banks Zoning Map, which is hereby adopted by
reference. The boundaries shall be modified in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The boundaries, legends, symbols, rotations, and references of each of
the zoning classifications as depicted on the City of Banks Zoning Map are
hereby adopted by reference.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specified, zone and overlay zone boundaries are
section lines; subdivision lines; lot lines; centerlines of street or railroad
right-of-way; or the lines extended.
   (D)   Where the exterior boundary of any zone or overlay zone conforms to
the corporate boundary of the city, the city boundary shall likewise be
depicted on the City of Banks Zoning Map.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.024 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The City of Banks Zoning Map is hereto attached and by this reference
made a part hereof, bearing the signatures of the Mayor and City Recorder of
the City of Banks, and entitled City of Banks Zoning Map dated with the
effective date of this chapter, it shall be maintained on file at all times in
the office of the City Recorder.
   (B)   Whenever authorized map changes have accumulated, the City Council
shall have prepared a revised Zoning Map depicting all changes authorized after
the original map was adopted.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.025 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Concurrent with annexation of land to the City of Banks, the City Council,
upon considering the recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall enact an
ordinance applying applicable zoning designation(s) to the subject land,
pursuant to §§
151.300 through
151.306. The Comprehensive Plan shall guide the designation of zoning for
annexed areas.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
RESIDENTIAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 151.035 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter regulates allowed land uses in the residential zones
("uses") and sets forth lot and development standards, including minimum
dimensions, area, density, coverage, structure height, and other provisions
that control the intensity, scale, and location of development. The regulations
of this chapter are intended to implement the City of Banks Comprehensive Plan
and the purposes of this Code, per §§
151.001 and
151.002.
   (B)   The intent and purpose of each residential zone is described as
follows:
      (1)   The Residential Estate (RE) zone is intended to provide for low-
density single family residential uses on large parcels at a density of 2.9 to
5.9 dwellings per net acre.
      (2)   The Low Density Residential (LDR) zone is intended to provide
primarily single-family detached and duplex dwellings at a density of 6.0 to
7.9 dwellings per net acre.
      (3)   The Medium Density Residential-Low (MDR-L) zone is intended to
provide for a blend of detached and attached single-family housing units with
limited multi-family housing types at a density of 8.0 to 12.9 dwellings per
net acre.
      (4)   The Medium Density Residential-High (MDR-H) zone is intended to
provide for a blend of detached and attached single-family housing units and
multi-family housing types at a density of 13.0 to 16.9 dwellings per net acre.
      (5)   The High Density Residential (HDR) zone is intended to provide for
a broad range of housing types at a density of 17.0 to 30.0 dwellings per net
acre. The HDR zone also provides opportunities for a limited amount of
neighborhood-scale commercial uses.
      (6)   Mixed-Use (MU) zone is intended to provide a mix of medium density
residential uses together with small to medium scale retail commercial and
civic uses that emphasize a pedestrian environment.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.036 PERMITTED LAND USES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   The land uses listed in Table 2.2-A as "P" are permitted in the residential
zones, subject to the provisions of this Code. Uses listed as "S" are permitted
subject to the specific standards in §§
151.075 through
151.085. Land uses designated with a "CU" require conditional use approval
prior to development or a change in use, in accordance with §§
151.270 through
151.273. Only land uses which are specifically listed as "P", "S" or "CU" in
Table 2.2-A and land uses which are approved as "similar" to those listed in
this table may be permitted.
TABLE 2.2-A: LAND USES PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Land Use RE LDR MDR-L MDR-H HDR MU
TABLE 2.2-A: LAND USES PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Land Use                                          RE   LDR  MDR- MDR- HDR  MU
                                                            L    H
Single Dwelling, Detached                         P    P    P    P    MPD  MPD
Accessory Dwelling Unit (Subject to §            S    S    S    S    S    S
151.075)
Duplex                                            P    P    P    P    MPD  MPD
Triplex                                           N    MPD  MPD  P    P    P
Fourplex                                          N    MPD  MPD  P    P    P
Townhome                                          N    MPD  P    P    P    P
Cottage Cluster                                   N    P    P    P    P    MPD
Multi-Dwelling                                    N    MPD  MPD  MPD  P    P
Manufactured Home - Individual Lot                P    P    P    P    N    N
Manufactured Home Park (Subject to §             N    S    S    S    N    N
151.076)
Residential Home (O.R.S. 197.665)                 P    P    P    P    P    P
Family Day Care Home                              P    P    P    P    P    P
Day Care Facility                                 CU   CU   CU   CU   P    P
Home Occupation (Subject to §                    S/CU S/CU S/CU S/CU S/CU S/CU
151.077)
Agriculture and Horticulture                      N    N    N    N    N    N
Accessory Structure or Use                        P    P    P    P    P    P
Church and Place of Worship                       CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
Club, Lodge and Similar Use                       CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
Government Office and Facilities                  CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
Library, Museum and Comm. Center                  CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
Wireless Communication Facility                   N    N    CU   CU   CU   N
Public Park and Recreational Facility             CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
Public and Private School                         CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
Bed and Breakfast                                 CU   CU   CU   CU   N    CU
Live/Work Residence (Subject to §                S    S    S    S    S    S
151.078)
Retail Sales and Service (Subject to §           N    N    S    S    S    S
151.079)
Prof. and Administrative Offices (Subject to §   N    N    N    N    N    S
151.079)
Medical and Dental Offices/Clinic (Subject to §  N    N    N    N    N    S
151.079)
Food-Beverage Sales, No Drive-Through             N    N    N    N    N    S
Similar Use per §                                P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU
151.006(A)
Key:
P = Permitted, subject to site/development review
S = Permitted, subject to special use standards in §§
151.075 through
151.085
MPD = Permitted, subject to master planned development approval in §§
151.335 through
151.344
CU = Conditional use permit required
N = Not permitted
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.037 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   The development standards in Table 2.2-B apply to all uses, structures,
buildings, and development allowed in the residential zones.
TABLE 2.2-B DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Development Standard RE LDR MDR-L MDR-H HDR MU
TABLE 2.2-B DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Development Standard                                            RE      LDR   MDR-L MDR-H HDR    MU
Minimum Density (DU/Net Acre)
Maximum Density (DU/Net Acre)                                   2.9     6.0   8.0   13.0  17.0   10.00
(see §                                                         5.9     7.9   12.9  16.9  30.0   16.9
151.110)
Minimum Lot Area (square feet)1                                                              
   Single-Family Detached                                    10,0002 7,000 5,000 4,500 NA     NA
   Duplex                                                    10,000  7,000 5,000 4,500 NA     NA
   Triplex                                                   NA      NA    6,000 5,000 5,000  5,000
   Fourplex                                                  NA      NA    6,000 5,000 5,000  5,000
   Townhome                                                  NA      NA    2,000 2,000 2,000  2,000
   Townhome Center Lot                                       NA      NA    4,000 4,000 4,000  4,000
   Cottage Cluster                                           NA      7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000  NA
   Multi-Family                                              NA      NA    NA    NA    5,0003 5,0003
Minimum Lot Width (feet)                                                                     
   Townhome                                                  NA      NA    20    20    20     20
   Townhome Corner Lot                                       NA      NA    40    40    40     40
   All Other                                                 70      50    40    40    40     40
Minimum Lot Depth (feet)                                        1.5 times the minimum lot width, or 100
                                                                feet, whichever is less
Maximum Building Coverage (%)                                                                
   Single-Family Detached                                    50      50    50    50    NA     NA
   Duplex                                                    NA      60    60    60    NA     NA
   Triplex                                                   NA      NA    None  None  None   None
   Fourplex                                                  NA      NA    None  None  None   None
   Townhome                                                  NA      NA    70    70    80     80
   Cottage Cluster                                           NA      60    70    70    70     NA
   Multi-Family                                              NA      NA    NA    NA    80     80
                                                               Setback Requirements:
Minimum Front Yard (feet)4                                      15      15    15    10    5      0
Minimum Side Yard (feet)                                        5       5     5     5     0      04
   Townhome (interior side yard)                             NA      NA    0     0     0      0
   Accessory Structures5                                     2       2     2     2     2      2
Minimum Street Side Yard (feet)                                 10      10    10    10    5      5
Minimum Rear Yard (feet)                                                                     
   Accessory Structure                                       2       2     2     2     2      2
   All Other                                                 10      10    10    10    10     10
Maximum Building Height (feet)6                                 30      30    35    35    40     35 or
                                                                                                 457
Minimum Landscaping (percent of total site) (see §§ 151.155 - 15      15    15    15    15     10
151.157)
Notes:
1.   Minimum lot sizes may vary from these standards per the lot size averaging provisions in § 152.005
2.   Maximum lot size in RE Zone is 15,000 sf. and in the LDR Zone is 10,000 sf.
3.   For multi-family, minimum lot size is 5,000 sf. for the first four units, plus 1,000 per unit for
additional units
4.   A front setback may be reduced by up to 5 feet for unenclosed front porches with a minimum front
yard setback of 5 feet where these reductions are permitted. There shall be no encroachment into public
utility easements.
5.   In the MU Zone, there is no minimum side yard requirement unless abutting LDR, MDR-L or MDR-
H zoning, in which case the minimum side yard requirement is 5 feet.
6.   Accessory structures located within 5 feet of a side yard shall be less than 15 feet in height.
7.   The maximum building height for residential only buildings in the MU Zone is 35 feet. The maximum
building height for mixed use buildings in the MU Zone is 45 feet.
8.   In all zones, the maximum building height for cottage cluster buildings is 25 feet or 2 stories,
whichever is greater.
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.038 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   An accessory use or structure shall comply with the requirements for a
principal use, except as this chapter specifically allows to the contrary.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 151.050 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter regulates allowed land uses in the nonresidential
zones and sets forth lot and development standards, including minimum
dimensions, area, density, coverage, structure height, and other provisions
that control the intensity, scale, and location of development. The regulations
of this chapter are intended to implement the City of Banks Comprehensive Plan
and the purposes of this Code, per §
151.002.
   (B)   The intent and purpose of each nonresidential zone is described as
follows:
      (1)   Community Facilities Zone CF. The purpose of the Community
Facilities Zone is to provide for community facilities on properties owned by
public or semi-public agencies, while encouraging protection of natural
resources designated by the comprehensive plan under the requirements of
statewide planning goals.
      (2)   General Commercial Zone C. The purpose of the General Commercial
Zone is to provide for a broad range of commercial activities to serve the
residents of Banks and the surrounding area.
      (3)   Downtown Commercial Zone DC. The purpose of the Downtown Commercial
Zone is to allow a mix of complementary uses in the Banks Downtown/Main Street
area, promote pedestrian-friendly development, encourage efficient use of land,
and facilitate economic development while preserving the small-town character
of Banks.
      (4)   General Industrial Zone I. The purpose of the General Industrial
Zone is to facilitate economic development by providing areas suitable for
warehousing, primary and secondary processing, packaging, fabricating of
finished goods and equipment with related outdoor storage and incidental sales.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.051 COMMUNITY FACILITIES ZONE; PERMITTED LAND USES.
   (A)   The land uses listed here are permitted in the CF Zone as shown,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. Only land uses that are specifically
listed, and land uses that are approved as "similar" to those listed per §
151.006(A) may be permitted.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses and accessory uses or
expansions of existing uses may be permitted as conditional uses in accordance
with the provisions of §§
151.270 through
151.273:
      (1)   Public park and playground, swimming pool, community center, golf
course and similar recreational facilities;
      (2)   Public school and associated facilities; and
      (3)   Government institution; community service facility; caretaker
facility.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.052 COMMERCIAL ZONES; PERMITTED LAND USES.
   The land uses listed in
Table 2.3-A as "P" are permitted in the nonresidential zones as shown, subject
to the provisions of this chapter. Uses listed as "S" are permitted subject to
the Use-Specific standards in §§
151.075 through
151.085. Land uses designated with a "CU" require conditional use approval
prior to development or a change in use, accordance with §§
151.270 through
151.273. Only land uses which are specifically listed as "P", "S", or "CU" in
Table 2.2-A and land uses which are approved as "similar" to those listed in
this table may be permitted.
TABLE 2.3-A: LAND USES PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Land Use C Zone DC Zone
TABLE 2.3-A: LAND USES PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Land Use                                                                       C    DC
                                                                               Zone Zone
Residential Uses
   Dwelling units on second or upper story                                  P    P
   Dwelling units on ground floor                                           P1   P1
   Family day care home                                                     P    P
Accessory Uses                                                                 P    P
Commercial Uses
   Automotive repair and service (includes fueling stations, car wash, tire CU   N
sales and service, farm equipment, painting and other similar uses)
   Automotive sales and rental (includes motorcycles, boats, RVs and trucks)P    N
   Commercial retail sales and service                                      P    P
   Personal services                                                        P    P
   Eating and drinking establishments (see also "drive-through facility)    P    P
   Hotel or motel                                                           P    P
   Amusement, entertainment, commercial recreation                          P    P
      - Fully enclosed in building                                       CU   CU
      - Not fully enclosed in a building
   Office uses (professional, medical clinic)                               P    P
   Drive-through facility (subject to §                                    CU/S N
151.082)
   Recreational vehicle park or campground                                  CU   N
   Lumber yard                                                              CU   N
   Day care facility                                                        P    P
   Wholesale and distribution business                                      CU   N
Public or commercial off-street parking lot or structure                       CU   CU
Institutional Uses
   Community service, governmental institution                              P    P
   Public utilities                                                         CU   CU
   Medical institutions offering overnight care and treatment               CU   N
   Radio and TV stations and transmitters                                   CU   N
   Schools                                                                  P    P
   Religious institutions                                                   P    P
Medical, recreational marijuana (subject to §                                 S    N
151.080)
Similar use per §                                                             P/CU P/CU
151.006(A)
Notes:
1.   In the C and DC Zones, ground floor dwelling units must be located behind a street-
facing commercial use.
Key:
P = Permitted, subject to site/development review
S = Permitted, subject to special use standards in §§
151.075 -
151.085
CU = Conditional use permit required
N = Not permitted
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.053 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ZONE; PERMITTED LAND USES.
   The land uses listed here are permitted in the I Zone as shown, subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Only land uses that are specifically listed,
and land uses that are approved as "similar" to those listed per §
151.006(A) may be permitted.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. No building, structure, or land shall be
used, and no building or structure shall hereafter be erected, enlarged, or
altered in this zone, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Cold storage plant;
      (2)   Feed and seed processing and storage;
      (3)   Laboratories: experimental, dental, medical, photo, or motion
picture, research or testing;
      (4)   Bakeries, creameries, bottling plants, laundries, cleaning and
dying plants;
      (5)   Cabinet shops, electrical, plumbing, or heating shops; welding,
sheet metal and machine shops, lumber yards;
      (6)   Manufacture, assembly, compounding, processing, packaging, or
treatment of candy, cosmetics, drugs, pharmaceuticals, toiletries, dairy
products, food and beverage products;
      (7)   Manufacture, assembly, compounding, processing, packaging or
treatment of paper products (but not paper itself), textiles, or other fibrous
materials;
      (8)   Manufacturing of pottery or other similar ceramic products;
      (9)   Manufacturing of precision instruments and equipment such as
watches, electronics equipment, medical equipment and devices, photographic
equipment, optical goods, and similar products;
      (10)   Manufacturing, assembly, testing, or repairing of devices,
equipment, and systems of an electrical or electromechanical nature;
      (11)   Manufacturing, assembly, fabrication, warehousing and wholesale
distribution of goods, wares, merchandise, articles, substances, or compounds,
which are not flammable, explosive, or likely to create fire, radiation or
explosive hazards to surrounding property;
      (12)   Planing mill;
      (13)   Plastics; molding of, including the manufacture or products
thereof, provided all grinding operations are conducted within a building;
      (14)   Public service and utility;
      (15)   Single-family dwellings and their accessory uses lawfully
established as of June 13, 2014;
      (16)   Replacement dwellings for single-family dwellings lawfully;
      (17)   Vehicle and farm equipment repair;
      (18)   Veterinarian or animal hospital;
      (19)   Warehousing, distribution, including mini-storage and outdoor
storage of equipment;
      (20)   Accessory use of structure, including caretaker residence; and
      (21)   Medical marijuana and recreational marijuana, subject to §
151.080.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In this zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses may be permitted conditional uses when in accordance with §§
151.075 through
151.085.
      (1)   Automobile service station;
      (2)   Batteries, paint, pickles, sauerkraut or vinegar, wallboard, cans,
soap and cleaning compounds, paper; manufacture of;
      (3)   Brewery;
      (4)   Drive-in theaters;
      (5)   Flour milling, grain storage, or elevator;
      (6)   Fruit packing and processing; cannery;
      (7)   Fuel oil distribution (home use only) and storage;
      (8)   Foundry;
      (9)   Natural resource extraction, gravel mining and rock crushing,
subject to the provisions set forth in §
151.084;
      (10)   Manufacture of motor vehicles, trucks, recreational vehicles, and
utility trailers as well as mobile homes;
      (11)   Radio and TV transmitters;
      (12)   Railroad right-of-way, truckage and related facilities;
      (13)   Slaughterhouse;
      (14)   Solid waste facilities; auto wrecking yards, junkyards; subject to
the provisions of §
151.083;
      (15)   Stone, marble, and granite grinding, dressing, and cutting;
      (16)   Any other use held similar to the above uses, as approved by the
City Council;
      (17)   Any processing activity or display essential or incidental to any
permitted use in this zone and not conducted entirely within an enclosed
building, except for outdoor storage of equipment which is allowed by right
division (A)(21); and
      (18)   Any use or storage of hazardous materials in amounts or forms
exceeding consumer commodities.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.054 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The development standards in Table 2.3-B apply to all uses,
structures, buildings, and development allowed in the nonresidential zones.
   TABLE 2.3-B DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN NONRESIDENTIAL ZONES
Development Standard CF C DC I
   TABLE 2.3-B DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN NONRESIDENTIAL ZONES
Development Standard            CF        C         DC           I
                                None,     None,
                                unless    unless    None, unless None, unless
Minimum lot width and depth     setbacks  setbacks  setbacks are setbacks are
                                are       are       required1    required1
                                required1 required1
Setback Requirements:                                          
Minimum front yard (feet)       None      None      None         20
Minimum side yard (feet)                                       
   Abutting residential zone 10        10        10           20
   All other                 None      None      None         None
Minimum street side yard (feet) None      None      None         20
Minimum rear yard (feet)                                       
   Abutting residential zone 10        10        10           20
   All other                 None      None      None         10
                                35, or 3  35, or 3  45 (60 feet  35, or 3
Maximum building height (feet)  stories,  stories,  w/height     stories,
                                whichever whichever bonus)       whichever is
                                is less   is less                less
Minimum landscaping (percent of
total site)
(See §§                       10        10        Non e        5
151.155 -
151.157)
Build-to line requirement       Non e     Non e     75 %         Non e
Notes:
1.   If a side yard setback is required, a minimum lot width of 25 feet is
required. If a rear yard setback is required, a minimum lot depth of 50 feet
is required.
 
   (B)   Height bonus in the DC Zone. Allowed building height is increased by
15 feet for mixed-use buildings in the DC Zone when at least 75% of the gross
floor area of the upper story(ies) is for one ormore dwellings as demonstrated
on building permit plans.
   (C)   Build-to line requirement.
      (1)   This standard is met when a building or buildings are placed within
10 feet from the front property line such that at least 80% of the site's
frontage area along a public street is occupied by habitable building space.
For this standard, frontage is considered the area between zero to 10 feet from
the front property line, extending the entire width of the frontage. Portions
of the building not used to meet this standard may setback more than 10 feet
from the front property line. The portion of the building used to meet this
standard must be habitable building space.
      (2)   For corner lots in the DC Zone, this standard must be met for Main
Street frontages.
      (3)   The portion of the site's frontage area not occupied by building(s)
shall be landscaped or developed as civic space in accordance with division (D)
below.
      (4)   See Figure 2.3-A for an illustration of the build-to line
requirement.
   Figure 2.3-A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1913.png]
 
   (D)   Civic space bonus. A height bonus of 15 additional feet in building
height is available to developments that provide a designated and improved as
civic space (plaza, landscaped courtyard, or similar space) that is accessible
to the public, pursuant to the following:
      (1)   Civic spaces shall abut a public right-of-way or otherwise be
connected to and visible from a public right-of-way by a sidewalk or pedestrian
accessway.
      (2)   All civic spaces will be improved with at least one pedestrian
amenity from the following list:
         (a)   Plaza surfaces (e.g., pavers, landscaping);
         (b)   Sidewalk extensions;
         (c)   Street furnishings (e.g., benches, public art, planter with seat
wall, informational kiosk, sheltered seating area);
         (d)   Way-finding signage; or
         (e)   Similar amenity as approved by the city.
      (3)   To be eligible for the height bonus, the size of the civic space
must be equal to, or greater than, 5% of the gross site area.
      (4)   This height bonus cannot be combined with the height bonus in
division (A) above.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
OVERLAY ZONES
§ 151.065 HISTORIC RESOURCE OVERLAY ZONE H.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Historic Overlay Zone is to provide for
the preservation, protection, enhancement, and perpetuation of designated
historic sites and structures in order to:
      (1)   Safeguard the city's heritage as embodied and reflected in its
historic resources;
      (2)   Encourage public awareness, knowledge, and appreciation of the
city's history and culture;
      (3)   Foster community pride and sense of identity based on recognition
and use of historic resources;
      (4)   Identify and resolve conflicts between the preservation of historic
resources and incompatible improvements or loss of the resource;
      (5)   Carry out the provisions of Oregon's Statewide Planning Goal 5; and
      (6)   Maintain the historic integrity of historically significant
buildings and sites.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions in this section apply to properties that
are within the Historic Resource Overlay Zone per the Zoning Map, and to
properties that are identified as historic in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   General provisions. All proposed exterior alterations and demolitions
of sites and structures subject to the Historic Resource Overlay Zone shall be
subject to the provisions of this section, with the exception of improvements
or demolitions required by other governmental agencies.
      (1)   Approval required. Planning Commission approval of a proposed
exterior alteration or demolition is required before a building permit can be
issued.
      (2)   Uses allowed. All uses allowed in the primary zone in which the
historic site or structure is located shall be allowed.
      (3)   Ordinary maintenance and repair. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance and repair of a designated
historic resource. Ordinary maintenance and repair means any work, the sole
purpose and effect of which is to prevent or correct deterioration, decay or
damage, including repair of damage caused by fire or other disaster and which
does not result in a change in the historic appearance and materials of a
property.
      (4)   Application procedure. Applications for approval of exterior
alteration or demolition of a historic resource shall be submitted to the City
Recorder and shall include a site plan, architectural drawings, and a
description of the proposal and its compliance with the criteria below. There
shall be no fee for this procedure. Upon receipt of a complete application, the
Planning Commission will schedule a public hearing consistent with the
provisions of §
151.233. When demolition is proposed, a notice will be posted on the property
consistent with city requirements.
      (5)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission shall issue a
decision on the request within 60 days of receipt of a complete application.
The Planning Commission may attach conditions necessary to ensure compliance
with the purpose of this section, which may include a condition to delay the
proposed action for a maximum of 60 days from the date of the decision until a
more satisfactory solution can be found.
      (6)   Review criteria. In evaluating applications for exterior
alterations, the Planning Commission shall consider:
         (a)   The purpose or necessity of the proposed alteration;
         (b)   The compatibility of the proposed alteration with the
traditional historic character and architectural integrity of the structure or
site in terms of design, architectural detail, scale, proportion, materials,
and texture; and
         (c)   Whether the proposed alteration is the minimum or least
disruptive alteration to meet the desired purpose.
      (7)   Applications for demolitions. In reviewing applications for
demolitions, the Planning Commission shall consider:
         (a)   The physical condition and safety of the structure; and
         (b)   Whether a reasonable effort has been made to preserve the
structure by restoration or removal, by offering the structure for sale or
public acquisition, or by alternative means. Advertising the building for sale
for 2 consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the Banks
area, and documenting that the highest bona fide offer for the structure has
not been rejected, shall constitute satisfactory evidence of reasonable effort
to preserve the structure.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
SPECIAL USE STANDARDS
§ 151.075 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) may be a detached building, in a
portion of a detached accessory building (above a garage or workshop, for
example), or a unit attached or interior to the primary dwelling (an addition
or conversion of an existing floor, for example).
   (B)   ADUs shall comply with the following:
      (1)   A maximum of 1 ADUs is allowed per lot. The ADU may be internal to
the primary residence or a detached, separate unit.
      (2)   The maximum floor area of the ADU shall not exceed 800 square feet
or 75% of the primary dwelling's floor area, whichever is smaller. However,
ADUs that result from the conversion of a level or floor (basement or attic,
for example) of the primary dwelling may occupy the entire level or floor, even
if the floor area of the ADU exceeds 800 feet.
      (3)   Other development standards. ADUs shall meet the development
standards for buildings per the underlying zone, except that:
         (a)   Conversion of an existing legal non-conforming structure to an
ADU is allowed, provided that the conversion does not increase the degree of
non-conformity.
         (b)   No off-street parking is required for an ADU.
         (c)   Detached ADUs shall contain at least 2 detailed design elements
from the list in §
151.126.
         (d)   ADUs are not included in density calculations.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.076 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   (A)   Specific standards for the development of manufactured home parks are
included because a manufactured home park is a unique type of residential use
which deserves special consideration due to its impact unto the community, its
roads and utilities. These standards are instead of the standards of §§
151.270 through
151.273, Conditional Use Permits.
   (B)   Minimum area - 1 acre.
   (C)   Access drives shall be provided to each manufactured home space, shall
be continuous unless provided with adequate turn-around area or cul-de-sac, and
shall have minimum width of 20 feet. Each park shall have a principal access
drive of not more than 20 feet for an exterior connection to the public street.
A principal access drive that allows on-street parking on 1 side shall be 24
feet wide; and a principal access drive that allows on-street parking on both
sides shall be 28 feet wide. All internal roads shall be paved.
   (D)   Walkways, not less than 2 feet in width, shall be provided from each
manufactured home space to service buildings and along at least 1 side of all
access drives and internal roads.
   (E)   Except as required for vision clearance, the outer perimeter of each
park shall be improved with:
      (1)   A sight-obscuring fence or wall not less than 5 nor more than 6
feet in height;
      (2)   Maintained evergreen landscaping that is at least 10 feet in depth,
will mature within 3 years, and reach at least 5 feet in height at maturity; or
      (3)   A combination of divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above.
   (F)   Unless in conflict with state laws and regulations, all areas covered
by manufactured homes and accessory buildings shall be paved with asphalt or
concrete, or covered with permanently contained crushed rock.
   (G)   All open areas, except as otherwise specified herein, shall be
suitably landscaped according to plans and specifications approved by the
Planning Commission. The areas shall be continuously maintained.
   (H)   Each manufactured home space shall be improved with 1 patio of
concrete or other suitable impervious material, having a minimum area of 150
square feet and 1 crushed rock or better surfaced mobile home pad having a
minimum area equal to that of the manufactured home which will be located on
the space. In addition each mobile home site shall have 1 parking space, either
a carport or paved parking area having a minimum area of 100 square feet.
   (I)   A minimum of 200 square feet of recreation area for each manufactured
home space shall be provided in 1 or more locations within the manufactured
home park. The minimum size of each required recreation area shall be 5,000
square feet.
   (J)   A centralized storage area for boats, campers, camping trailers, and
automobiles shall be provided in each manufactured home park. The storage area
shall contain a minimum of 160 square feet for each manufactured home space and
be enclosed by a sight-obscuring fence. Roads, carports, parking areas, yards,
and patios shall not be used for long-term parking or storage of trailers,
boats, campers, or other recreational vehicles.
   (K)   Permanent accessory structures located within any manufactured home
space shall be used only as carports or for storage purposes. (Storage
buildings shall have a maximum floor area of 25 square feet). Carports shall
not exceed 800 square feet in area unless designed to serve 2 adjacent
manufactured home spaces in which case they may be 1,600 square feet in area.
Storage structures and carports shall be located not less than 6 feet from any
manufactured home and shall be subject to all of the applicable permits and
building codes of the City of Banks. A storage building (and carport) shall be
provided on each manufactured home space.
   (L)   Signs are limited to 1 identification sign with a maximum area on 1
side of 12 square feet. The sign may be indirectly illuminated, but shall not
contain exposed neon or similar tubing and shall not flash, rotate, or move in
any way. Design approval of the sign is subject to review of the Planning
Commission to assure that it will be harmonious with the neighborhood.
   (M)   All utilities, i.e., sewer, water, natural gas, electricity,
telephone, and television cable shall be underground in locations approved the
City Engineer. Each manufactured home space shall be equipped with connections
for running water, electricity, and sanitary sewer.
   (N)   All residents shall execute leases, which have been approved by the
city and contain provisions for the assumption of possession of abandoned
manufactured homes by the manufactured home park management.
   (O)   Prior to location of a mobile home in a manufactured home park, the
owner or occupant shall establish to the satisfaction of the superintendent of
building inspection that the manufactured home is in a condition that conforms
to 1 of the following construction standards.
      (1)   A manufactured home constructed on or after 9-1-1969, shall conform
either to standards in effect in Oregon at the time of construction or Oregon
standards in effect at the time entry into the park is to occur. Units built
between 9-1-1969 and 6-15-1976 shall exhibit the Oregon Department of Commerce
Insignia of Compliance. Units built thereafter shall meet the H.U.D. Federal
Manufactured Home Safety Standards dated 6-15-1976.
      (2)   Manufactured homes, constructed prior to 9-1-1969, shall be in a
condition that is not less than the substantial equivalent of the above
standards.
   (P)   The services of an architect, a landscape architect, and an engineer,
all licensed to practice in Oregon, shall be employed in the preparation and
execution of all plans. Upon proof by the applicant that the scope of the
proposal does not require the services of an architect, the Planning Director
may waive that requirement.
   (Q)   In the event of denial, applications may be resubmitted within 1 year
of the denial, provided the Planning Director finds the denial was based on
internal (on-site) factors and new plans have been submitted which are
sufficiently modified to warrant consideration by the Planning Commission.
   (R)   Notwithstanding the above regulations, manufactured home parks must
comply with all state regulations pertaining to this type of use.
   (S)   An adequate number of fire hydrants shall be provided within the
manufactured home park so that no mobile home space or structure within the
park is more than 400 feet from a hydrant.
   (T)   Standard streetlights shall be installed at intervals of no more than
200 feet along all access drives and internal roads.
   (U)   Each manufactured home space shall be legibly numbered so that it may
be easily found by emergency vehicles.
   (V)   A manufactured home located in a manufactured home park smaller than 3
acres shall have:
      (1)   A pitched roof, except that no standard shall require a slope of
greater than a nominal 3 feet in height for each 12 feet in width.
      (2)   Exterior siding and roofing which in color, material and appearance
is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on
residential dwellings within the community and which is comparable to the
predominant materials used on dwellings on adjoining sites as determined by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.077 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Specific standards for home occupations in lieu of the
conditional use criteria of §§
151.270 through
151.273 are as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No sign shall be used other than a nameplate not over 2 square feet
in area.
      (2)   There shall be no display that will indicate from the exterior that
the building is used for any purpose other than a residence.
      (3)   There shall be no outside storage of materials other than plant
materials. No activities associated with the home occupation shall take place
outdoors:
      (4)   The building shall retain the characteristics and appearance of a
residence.
      (5)   The home occupation shall not alter the residential character of
the neighborhood.
      (6)   There shall be no paid employees other than family members.
      (7)   The activity shall occupy no more than 1/4 of the floor area of the
primary structure.
      (8)   Family day care homes are residential uses and are not regulated as
home occupations.
      (9)   Specifically prohibited, as a home occupation in a residential
zone, is the repair and assembly of motor vehicles, equipment with an internal
combustion engine, or large appliances.
      (10)   There shall be no large-scale commercial vehicle delivery or
pickup.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.078 LIVE/WORK RESIDENCE.
   The development standards listed below apply to all live-work residences.
Live/work residence means a habitable structure that allows for a professional
office or commercial retail or service use to be operated in the same
structure, with the business owner's residence located behind the business use
on the ground floor or on the upper floor. The permitted live/work housing
types are defined below:
   (A)   Live/work house. A single household detached or attached dwelling with
a commercial use occupying one floor and no more than 50% of the total floor
area of the entire unit, excluding garage space.
   (B)   Live/work apartment. A primarily residential multi-story, multi-unit
building with some apartments having space designated as available for business
use not to exceed 50% of the square footage of the entire apartment unit,
excluding the garage.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.079 COMMERCIAL USES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   Certain commercial uses are allowed in the MU, MDR-L, MDR-H, and HDR zones
as indicated in
Table 2.2-A. Those commercial uses are: Retail sales and service, professional
and administrative offices, medical and dental offices, and food-beverage sales
(no drive- through facilities). The following standards apply to commercial
uses in residential zones.
   (A)   The gross floor area of commercial uses in the MU zone shall not
exceed 10,000 square feet per lot.
   (B)   The gross floor area of commercial uses in the MDR-L, MDR-H, and HDR
zones shall not exceed 5,000 square feet per lot.
   (C)   For mixed-use developments abutting Main Street, no more than 50% of
the Main Street ground-floor street frontage shall be occupied by residential
uses. This standard does not limit residential uses above a street-level
commercial or civic use, or behind street-level store fronts abutting Main
Street.
   (D)   Commercial and mixed-use buildings in the MU, MDR-L, MDR-H, and HDR
zones shall meet the Build-to Line standard of §
151.054(C).
   (E)   All commercial operations shall be conducted within enclosed buildings
except as expressly authorized through approval of a conditional use permit or
as accessory to a primary permitted use; for example, outdoor seating areas for
restaurants.
   (F)   Commercial and residential floor space on the ground floor of a mixed-
use building shall have a minimum floor-to-ceiling height of 11 feet for new
building construction.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.080 MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis family Moraceae,
whether growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
plant or its resin as currently defined by state law or as may from time to
time be amended. The term does not include the mature stalks of the plant,
fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
the mature stalks (except the resin extracted there from), fiber, oil, or cake,
or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination.
      MARIJUANA FACILITY or FACILITY. Any facility licensed by the state of
Oregon to sell marijuana. The term includes both facilities that are registered
by the Oregon Health Authority to sell, distribute, transmit, give, dispense or
otherwise provide medical marijuana pursuant to O.R.S. Chapter 475, and
facilities that are licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission to sell or
distribute marijuana for recreational purposes. A FACILITY includes the real
property on which the use is proposed or situated and all buildings or other
structures on the property used for the storage, distribution, sale or
dissemination of marijuana.
   (B)   Applications. An application for a marijuana facility shall comply
with all applicable land use review procedures set forth in this chapter.
Applications for all new marijuana facilities and modifications or expansions
of existing marijuana facilities shall comply with the substantive requirements
of the underlying zone, the standards of this section and any other applicable
standards set forth in the Banks Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to the establishment,
location and operation of all marijuana facilities in the city:
      (1)   The facility shall be licensed or otherwise registered by the state
and at all times shall be in good standing pursuant to state law and any terms
or conditions of the facility's state-issued license. The applicant, operator,
owner and person in charge of the facility shall also possess any required
state license or registration needed to operate the facility and shall be in
good standing at all times while operating the facility.
      (2)   The facility shall meet applicable state and local laws, including
but not limited to, building and fire codes, including the payment of all
fines, fees and taxes owing to the city.
      (3)   The facility shall not manufacture or produce on-site any extracts,
oils, resins or similar derivatives of marijuana and shall not use open flames
or gases in the preparation of any products.
      (4)   Marijuana shall not be smoked, ingested or otherwise consumed on
the premises of the facility.
      (5)   The facility shall provide for the secure disposal of marijuana
remnants or byproducts; such remnants or by-products shall not be placed in the
facility's exterior refuse containers.
      (6)   The facility shall not be co-located on the same tax lot or within
the same building with any marijuana grow site or with a smoke shop where
tobacco smoking is allowed.
      (7)   A facility may only operate in the C General Commercial zone or the
I Industrial Zone as designated by the official zoning maps of the city.
      (8)   A facility shall not be located within the buffers specified in
this section. Distances shall be measured as a straight line from the closest
point of the property on which the facility is located to the closest point of
the property on which the buffered use is located:
         (a)   One thousand feet from any public or private school; and
         (b)   Five hundred feet from any public or private park or library;
         (c)   One thousand feet from another marijuana facility; and
         (d)   Four hundred feet from any residentially zoned property.
      (9)   Signage for the marijuana facility shall not include logos or
illustrations of marijuana leaves and shall emphasize identification of the
facility without drawing undue attention.
      (10)   The facility shall not sell or dispense marijuana in an edible
form.
      (11)   No minor shall be allowed on the premises unless the minor is a
medical marijuana qualifying patient and accompanied by a parent, guardian or
caregiver whose purpose is to procure the minor's medical marijuana. No minors
are allowed on the premises of a recreational marijuana facility.
      (12)   Sales or any other transfers of marijuana products must occur
completely inside the facility building and must be conducted only between the
facility operator and the customer. There shall be no walk-up or drive- through
service.
      (13)   The hours of commercial operation for the facility shall be
limited to 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
      (14)   A change in use (including a rezone) of a neighboring property
within any of the buffer distances specified in this section after a permit has
been issued for a facility shall not result in the facility being in violation
of this section.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.081 DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.
   The following standards apply to drive-through facilities, where they are
allowed.
   (A)   Purpose. Where drive-up or drive-through uses and facilities are
allowed, they shall conform to all of the following standards, which are
intended to calm traffic, provide for adequate vehicle queuing space, prevent
automobile turning movement conflicts, and provide for pedestrian comfort and
safety.
   (B)   Standards. Drive-up and drive-through facilities (i.e., driveway
queuing areas, customer service windows, teller machines, kiosks, drop-boxes,
or similar facilities) shall meet all the following standards:
      (1)   Drive-through facilities shall have no more than one service lane.
      (2)   Drive-through uses shall be located so that access and egress to
the drive-through features are from an on-site drive aisle or other on-site
circulation facility, not a public street.
      (3)   Restaurants providing drive-up window service shall have sufficient
seating to accommodate anticipated customer volume.
      (4)   Financial and other commercial establishments that provide drive-up
window facilities shall also provide for 24-hour safe, convenient, and readily
accessible exterior walk-up window service that is separate from the drive-
through facility, such as an automatic teller machine.
      (5)   The design of the stacking area shall allow customers' vehicles to
leave the stacking line for emergency reasons.
      (6)   Establishments having drive-up window facilities shall have
sufficient stacking area to ensure that public rights-of-way and shared access
driveways are not obstructed.
      (7)   Communication's sound system shall not exceed a measurement of 55
decibels at the adjoining property line.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.082 BED AND BREAKFAST.
   The following standards apply to bed and breakfast facilities, where they
are allowed.
   (A)   Accessory use. The use must be accessory to a permitted residential
use in the RE, LDR, MDR-L, or MDR-H zones.
   (B)   Maximum size. A maximum of 6 bedrooms for guests, and a maximum of 12
guests are permitted per night.
   (C)   Length of stay. The maximum length of stay is 28 days per guest; any
stay longer is classified as a hotel or commercial lodging use.
   (D)   Employees. The inn shall have not more than 2 non-resident employees
on-site at any 1 time. There is no limit on residential employees.
   (E)   Food service. Food service shall be provided only to overnight guests
of the business, except where a restaurant use is also an allowed use.
   (F)   Signs. Signs shall not exceed a total of 4 square feet of surface area
on each side of 1 or 2 faces. See also, sign regulations in
Chapter 39 of the Banks Municipal Code.
   (F)   Screening and buffering. The city may require a landscape hedge or
fence be installed on the property line separating a detached accessory
dwelling from an abutting single-family dwelling for the purposes of visual
screening and privacy between uses. Screening and buffering shall conform to
the standards of §§
151.155 through
151.157.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.083 AUTO WRECKING YARDS OR JUNK YARDS.
   In addition to such other requirements as the Planning Commission may
stipulate in authorizing this use, the following standards apply:
   (A)   Minimum lot area - 1 acre;
   (B)   Minimum building setback distance - front yard, 30 feet; rear yard, 25
feet; side yard, 25 feet, except on corner lots, 30 feet;
   (C)   Minimum fence setbacks - front yard, 25 feet; rear yard, 5 feet; and
side yard, 5 feet;
   (D)   Fences:
      (1)   A sight-obscuring fence shall be constructed to completely enclose
the wrecking or junkyard. The fence shall be painted 1 color and kept in good
repair. It shall be the responsibility of the occupant to maintain the fence;
      (2)   Front yard fence height - minimum height of 6 feet. However, when
such front yard is fronting on any state primary or secondary highway, the
fence height shall be a minimum of 8 feet; and
      (3)   Side or rear yard fence height - minimum of 6 feet.
   (E)   Exterior storage:
      (1)   All storage shall be within the fenced area; and
      (2)   At no time shall any items be piled higher than the fence.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the above regulations, all auto wrecking yards and
junk yards must comply with all state regulations pertaining to this type of
use.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.084 NATURAL RESOURCE EXTRACTION.
   (A)   The use of premises in any zone for the excavation, mining,
extraction, or removal of stone, sand, gravel, day, or other natural deposits
may only be authorized by the Planning Commission after public hearing per the
Type III procedure.
   (B)   This use may be authorized by the Planning Commission for the periods
as it deems consistent with the public health, safety, and general welfare, and
subject to the following provisions.
   (C)   Additional application submission requirements. In addition to the
information required by §
151.272, an application for natural resource extraction shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Topographic map with such cross-sections as are necessary to
adequately show the topography of the property in question, the extent of the
area to be mined, any natural features and its relation to streets and
surrounding property;
      (2)   Map showing the extent of the proposed excavation and the contours
of the ground after the removal of the material.
      (3)   Narrative describing any impact the excavation may have on
surrounding properties and by any improvements or natural features existing at
or near the site. Issues to be addressed include noise, dust, traffic, water
quality, and other issues specific to the site.
      (4)   Reclamation. Before approving an application, the Planning
Commission may require that the applicant enter into an appropriate agreement
with the city for reclamation of such areas to suitable use after completion of
excavations, and that an adequate performance bond or other guarantee be
furnished covering the cost of restoration or other work.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.085 TEMPORARY USES.
   Temporary uses are characterized by their short-term or seasonal nature and
by the fact that permanent improvements are not made to the site. Temporary
uses include, but are not limited to: construction trailers, leasing offices,
temporary carnivals and fairs, parking lot sales, retail warehouse sales,
seasonal sales such as Christmas tree sales and vegetable stands, and similar
uses. This Code contains permit procedures for three types of temporary uses.
Seasonal and special events, temporary sales offices and model homes, and
temporary buildings, trailers, kiosks, and other structures, as follows:
   (A)   Seasonal and special events. Through a Type II procedure, pursuant to
§
151.232, the city shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny a temporary
use application for a seasonal or special event, based on the following
criteria:
      (1)   The use is permitted in the underlying zone, and does not violate
any conditions of approval for the property (e.g., prior development permit
approval).
      (2)   The use occurs only once in a calendar year and for not longer than
45 consecutive days.
      (3)   The use is permitted in the underlying land use district and does
not violate any conditions of approval for the property (e.g., prior
development permit approval).
      (4)   The applicant, if different than the property owner, has proof of
the owner's permission to place the use on the property.
      (5)   Ingress and egress are adequate and do not raise safety concerns
when the proposed use is combined with the other uses of the site, pursuant to
§§
151.140 through
151.142, On-Site Pedestrian Access and Circulation.
      (6)   The use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity) with the
provisions of §§
151.155 through
151.157, Landscaping, Screening and Fences.
      (7)   There is sufficient parking to accommodate the temporary use and
other uses existing on the site, pursuant to the §§
151.170 through
151.178, Parking and Loading.
      (8)   The use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity) with the
provisions of §§
151.215 through
151.218, Public Facilities.
      (9)   The use does not create adverse off-site impacts including vehicle
traffic, noise, odors, vibrations, glare, or lights that affect an adjoining
use in a manner in which other uses allowed outright in the district do not
affect the adjoining use.
      (10)   The use is adequately served by sewer or septic system and water,
as applicable.
      (11)   The applicant shall be responsible for maintaining all required
licenses and permits.
   (B)   Temporary sales office or model home. Through a Type II procedure,
pursuant to §
151.232, the city shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny a temporary
use application for a temporary sales office or model home, based on the
following criteria:
      (1)   Temporary sales office. The use of any real property within the
city as a temporary sales office, office for the purpose of facilitating the
sale of real property, shall meet all of the following criteria:
         (a)   The temporary sales office shall be located within the
boundaries of the subdivision or tract of land in which the real property is to
be sold.
         (b)   The property to be used for a temporary sales office shall not
be permanently improved for that purpose.
         (c)   Public health, safety, and welfare shall be protected through
conditions imposed by the city, regarding temporary utility connections.
      (2)   Model house. The use of any real property within the city for a
model home, including a model home in any subdivision or on any tract of land
within the city, shall meet all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Where the model house is located in a residential zone, it shall
be located within the boundaries of the subdivision or tract of land where the
real property to be sold is situated.
         (b)   A model house located in a residential zone shall be designed as
a permanent structure that meets all relevant requirements of this Code and
other applicable codes and permit requirements.
         (c)   A model house located in a nonresidential zone, as with a
manufactured home sales display lot, shall be removed when the use of the
subject site for home sales ends.
   (C)   Temporary buildings, trailers, kiosks, and other structures. Through a
Type II procedure, pursuant to §
151.232, the city shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny an
application for a placement and use of a temporary building, trailer, kiosk, or
other structure, based on following criteria:
      (1)   The use is permitted in the underlying zone and does not violate
any conditions of approval for the property (e.g., prior development permit
approval).
      (2)   The applicant, if different than the property owner, has proof of
the owner's permission to place the use on the property.
      (3)   The lot development standards of the applicable zone are met.
      (4)   Ingress and egress are adequate and do not raise safety concerns
when the proposed use is combined with the other uses of the site, pursuant to
§§
151.140 through
151.142, On-Site Pedestrian Access and Circulation.
      (5)   The use does not conflict (i.e., create a nonconformity) with the
provisions of §§
151.155 through
151.157, Landscaping, Screening, and Fencing.
      (6)   There is sufficient parking to accommodate the temporary use and
other uses existing on the site, pursuant to §§
151.170 through
151.178, Parking and Loading.
      (7)   The temporary use does not conflict [i.e., create a nonconformity)
with the provisions of §§
151.215 through
151.218, Public Facilities.
      (8)   The use does not create adverse off-site impacts including vehicle
traffic, noise, odors, vibrations, glare, or lights that affect an adjoining
use in a manner in which other uses allowed outright in the district do not
affect the adjoining use.
      (9)   The use is adequately served by sewer or septic system and water,
as applicable.
      (10)   The structure complies with applicable building codes.
      (11)   Except where specifically authorized by the City Council, the
length of time that the temporary structure may remain on a site shall not
exceed 6 consecutive months or a total of 9 months in any one calendar year.
      (12)   The applicant has obtained and will maintain all required licenses
and permits.
      (13)   Public health, safety, and welfare are protected through the
installation of a water meter, if necessary, and other improvements, pursuant
to §§
151.215 through
151.218, Public Facilities, as necessary.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDS
§ 151.095 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If a property ownership, consisting of the entire contiguous land
holdings held in a single ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, has
an area or dimension which does not meet the lot size requirements of the zone
in which the property is located, the holdings may be occupied by a use
permitted in the zone subject to the other requirements of the zone, provided
that if there is an area deficiency, residential use shall be limited to a
single-family dwelling or to the number of dwelling units consistent with the
density requirement of the zone.
   (B)   The record of ownership as recorded in the office of the County Clerk
at the time of passage of this chapter shall be the basis for application of
this exception unless the owner submits proof that a different ownership
existed at the time the provisions of this chapter became applicable to the
land concerned.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.096 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The following exceptions to front yard requirements are
authorized for a lot in any zone.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   If there are buildings on both abutting lots, which are within 100
feet of the intervening lot, and the buildings have front yards of less than
the required depth for the zone, the depth of the front yard for the
intervening lot need not exceed the average depth of the front yards of the
abutting lots.
      (2)   If there is a building on 1 abutting lot which is within 100 feet
of the lot, and this building has a front yard of less than the required depth
for the zone, the front yard for the lot need not exceed a depth halfway
between the depth of the front yard of the abutting lot and the required front
yard depth.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.097 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Vertical projections such as chimneys, spires, domes, elevator shaft
housings, towers, aerials, flagpoles and similar objects not used for human
occupancy are not subject to the building height limitations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.098 PROJECTIONS FROM BUILDINGS.
   Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades,
gutters, chimneys, and flues may project not more than 24 inches into a
required yard.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
COMMUNITY DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.110 PURPOSE.
   Commercial building design standards regulate the exterior design of
commercial buildings to create a pedestrian-friendly environment; provide
natural surveillance of public spaces; and maintain and enhance the rural,
small-town character of downtown Banks. The standards in this section are
intended to be clear and objective to allow a streamlined review process. Each
standard has an associated guideline that provides flexibility for
discretionary (Type III) review before the Planning Commission if necessary or
desired by the applicant.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.111 APPLICABILITY.
   The standards in this section apply to all new commercial and mixed-use
development and substantial remodels of, or additions to, existing buildings in
the C, DC and MU Zones. For this section, a substantial remodel or addition is
any expansion or alteration that impacts more than 50% of the street-facing
facade of an existing building.
   (A)   Transparency standards.
      (1)   Ground floor entrances oriented to the street shall be at least 40%
transparent. This standard may be met by providing a door with window(s), a
transom window above the door, or sidelights beside the door. Windows used to
meet this standard may count toward the storefront window percentage in
division (A)(2) below. Transom windows above a door shall not be covered by an
awning, canopy, or similar cover.
      (2)   Transparent windows shall cover at least 60% of the ground-floor,
street-facing elevation of all buildings. For this standard, the ground-floor
elevation is the area between the building base (or 30 inches above the
sidewalk grade, whichever is less) and a plane 6 feet above the sidewalk grade.
      (3)   Upper floor, street-facing elevations may have less window coverage
than ground-floor elevations. Orientation of upper floor windows shall have a
width that is no greater than height.
      (4)   Side and rear ground-floor building elevations shall provide a
minimum of 30% window transparency.
      (5)   All windows shall have trim, reveals, recesses or similar detailing
of not less than 4 inches in width or depth, as applicable.
      (6)   Windows and display cases shall not break the front plane of the
building (e.g., projecting display boxes are not permitted). For durability and
aesthetic reasons, display cases, when provided, shall be flush with the
building facade (not affixed to the exterior) and have trim that matches the
window trim. Window flower boxes are allowed.
   (B)   Transparency guideline (for discretionary review). Ground floor
building elevations should be pedestrian oriented and treated with windows,
display areas or glass doorway openings to the extent possible and where
appropriate to the design and use of the building. This guideline particularly
applies to ground floor building elevations situated along Main Street in the
DC Zone.
   (C)   Defined upper story standard. Building elevations shall contain
detailing that visually defines street-level storefronts from upper stories.
This standard may be met through any of the following elements:
      (1)   Awnings or canopies.
      (2)   Belt course (molding or projecting bricks or stones running
horizontally along the face of a building to emphasize the junction between 2
floors).
      (3)   Similar detailing, materials, or fenestration.
   (D)   Defined upper story guideline. Building heights at or near the street
should help form a sense of enclosure but should not create an undifferentiated
high wall out of scale with pedestrians. Upper stories should be clearly
differentiated from the ground floor.
   (E)   Building articulation standards. All building elevations that orient
to a public street or civic space must have at least one break in the wall
plane for every 25 feet of building length or width, as follows:
      (1)   A "break" for the purposes of this division is a change in wall
plane of not less than 24 inches in depth. Breaks may include but are not
limited to an offset, recess, window reveal, pilaster, frieze, pediment,
cornice, parapet, gable, dormer, eave, coursing, canopy, awning, column,
building base, balcony, permanent awning or canopy, marquee, or similar
architectural feature.
      (2)   Changes in paint color and features that are not designed as
permanent architectural elements, such as display cabinets, window boxes,
retractable and similar mounted awnings or canopies, and other similar
features, do not count toward meeting this break-in-wall-plane standard.
      (3)   See Figure 3.2-A for visual illustration of building articulation
standards.
   (F)   Building articulation guideline. Building elevations should be varied
and articulated to provide visual interest to pedestrians. Within larger
projects, variations in architectural elements such as: building elevations,
roof levels, architectural features, and exterior finishes should be provided.
To balance horizontal features on longer building elevations, vertical building
elements, such as building entries, should be emphasized.
   Figure 3.2-A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1930.png]
 
   (G)   Pedestrian shelter standards.
      (1)   Permanent awnings, canopies, or recesses shall be provided along at
least 60% of ground-floor elevation(s) that abut a public sidewalk or civic
space. Pedestrian shelters used to meet this standard shall extend at least 5
feet over the pedestrian area.
      (2)   Pedestrian shelters shall comply with applicable building codes. If
mezzanine or transom windows exist, the shelter shall be below such windows.
Pedestrian shelters shall maintain required vertical clearance.
   (H)   Pedestrian shelter guideline. Ground floor elevations that are located
on a sidewalk, or other space where pedestrians are allowed to walk should
provide weather protection for pedestrians to the greatest extent possible.
   (I)   Screening of equipment standard. Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be
setback or screened behind a parapet wall so it is not visible from any public
right-of-way or civic space. Where such placement and screening is not
practicable, the city may approve painting of mechanical units in lieu of
screening.
   (J)   Screening of equipment guideline. All roof, surface, and wall-mounted
mechanical, electrical, communications, and service equipment should be
screened from view from adjacent public streets by the use of parapets, walls,
fences, enclosures, dense evergreen foliage, or by other suitable means.
   (K)   Exterior building materials standard. This standard applies to the
exterior wall(s) of buildings that face a public street or civic space.
Table 3.2-1 lists building materials that are primary (P), secondary (S),
accent (A), and not allowed (N).
      (1)   Buildings shall utilize primary materials (P) for at least 60% of
the applicable building facades.
      (2)   Secondary materials (S) are permitted on no greater than 40% of
applicable building facades.
      (3)   Accent materials (A) are permitted on no greater than 10% of
applicable building facades as trim or accents only.
      (4)   Materials listed as N in
Table 3.2-1 are prohibited on applicable building facades.
   (L)   Exterior building materials guideline. Exterior building materials and
finishes should convey an impression of permanence and durability. Materials
such as masonry, stone, wood, terra cotta, and tile are encouraged. Windows are
also encouraged, where they allow views to interior activity areas or displays.
Where masonry is used, decorative patterns (other than running bond pattern)
should be provided, especially at entrances, building corners and at the
pedestrian level. These decorative patterns may include multi-colored masonry
units, such as brick, tile, stone, or cast stone, in a layered or geometric
pattern, or multi-colored ceramic tile bands used in conjunction with materials
such as concrete.
TABLE 3.2-1 EXTERIOR BUILDING MATERIALS
Building Material Designation
TABLE 3.2-1 EXTERIOR BUILDING MATERIALS
Building Material                                               Designation
Brick                                                           P
Stucco                                                          P
Stone/masonry                                                   P
Glass                                                           P
Finished wood, wood veneers, wood siding                        P
Fiber reinforced cement siding and panels                       P
Vegetated wall panel or trellis                                 P
Concrete (poured in place or precast)                           S
Concrete blocks with integral color (ground, polished or glazed S
finish)
Finished metal panels (anodized aluminum, stainless steel, or   S
copper) with polished, brushed or patina finish
Ceramic tile                                                    S
Concrete blocks with integral color (split-face finish)         A
Standing seam and corrugated metal                              A
Glass block                                                     A
Vinyl siding                                                    N
Plywood paneling                                                N
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DESIGN
§ 151.125 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following standards are intended to create walkable residential
neighborhoods that are visually interesting, compatible with existing
development, and avoid monotony in design.
   (B)   The standards in this section are intended to be clear and objective
to allow a streamlined review process. Each standard has an associated
guideline that provides flexibility for discretionary review before the
Planning Commission if necessary or desired by the applicant.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.126 RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Applicability. The standards in this section apply to all new single
detached, duplex, triplex, fourplex, and townhome development, unless otherwise
indicated per the divisions below. The standards in this section also apply to
conversion of an existing dwelling into one of the subject dwelling types (for
example, conversion of a single detached dwelling into a duplex).
   (B)   Entry location and orientation standard. At least one main entrance
for each structure that faces a street, and each townhome unit that faces a
street, must meet the following standards.
      (1)   Be set back no further than 20 feet from the abutting public street
or public pedestrian way.
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   Face the street;
         (b)   Be at an angle of up to 45 degrees from the street;
         (c)   Face a common open space that is adjacent to the street; or
         (d)   Open onto a porch. If the entrance opens onto a porch, the porch
must:
            1.   Be at least 24 square feet in area with a minimum four-foot
depth.
            2.   Have at least 1 porch entry facing the street.
            3.   Have a roof that is no more than 12 feet above the floor of
the porch.
            4.   Have a roof that covers at least 30% of the porch area.
   (C)   Entry location and orientation guideline. Building elevations facing
streets, shared courts, and common greens should include pedestrian oriented
entrances. Special attention should be given to designing a primary building
entrance that is both attractive and functional. Primary entrances should
incorporate changes in mass, surface, or finish to emphasize the entrance.
   (D)   Limitation on parking. Off-street parking is not allowed within the
front yard of a dwelling except within a designated driveway or garage.
   (E)   Garage standards. Where 1 or more garages face a street, the following
standards apply:
      (1)   The front elevation of the garage(s) may not extend in front of the
longest, street-facing elevation of the primary dwelling structure.
      (2)   The width of all garages on the street-facing elevation shall not
exceed 60% of the total width of that elevation. The width of the garage shall
be measured from the edges of the finished exterior garage wall.
      (3)   If the front elevation of the garage is set back at least 5 feet
from the street-facing elevation of the primary dwelling structure, the garage
width standard in division (E)(2) does not apply.
      (4)   Garages that face a street shall contain at least one of the
following design features:
         (a)   Garage trellis or pergola extending at least 12 inches from the
building face;
         (b)   Windows on 15% of the garage door;
         (c)   Decorative hardware;
         (d)   Natural wood finish;
         (e)   A recess of at least 3 feet behind the primary dwelling; or
         (f)   Multiple materials finish or colors are used.
   (F)   Garages guideline. Garages should not be a dominant feature of the
front residential elevation. Garage doors should be articulated to reduce their
visual impact.
   (G)   Windows standard. A minimum of 15% of the area of all street-facing
facades must include windows or entrance doors. Facades separated from the
street property line by a dwelling are exempt from meeting this standard.
   (H)   Windows guideline. Building elevations facing streets, shared courts,
and common greens should include ample levels of glazing to ensure articulation
on the facade, daylighting of interior spaces and visibility into the public
realm.
   (I)   Detailed design standards.
      (1)   All single detached dwellings, duplexes, triplexes and fourplexes
shall incorporate at least 5 of the following elements on the street-facing
facade. All townhome units shall incorporate at least 2 of the following
elements on the street-facing facade. For corner lots, this standard applies to
both street-facing facades.
         (a)   Covered porch at least 36 square feet with a depth not less than
6 feet as measured perpendicular from the face of the main building facade to
the edge of the porch.
         (b)   Recessed entry area at least 2 feet deep, as measured
horizontally from the face of the main building facade, and at least 5 feet
wide.
         (c)   Offset on the building face of at least 16 inches from one
exterior wall surface to the other.
         (d)   Dormer that is at least 4 feet wide.
         (e)   Roof eaves with a minimum projection of 12 inches from the
intersection of the roof and the exterior walls.
         (f)   Roof line offsets of at least 2 feet from the top surface of 1
roof to the top surface of the other.
         (g)   Tile shingle roofs.
         (h)   Horizontal lap siding between 3 to 7 inches wide (the visible
portion once installed).
         (i)   Brick, cedar shingles, stucco, or other similar decorative
materials covering at least 40% of the street-facing facade.
         (j)   Gable roof, hip roof, or gambrel roof design.
         (k)   Window trim around all windows at least 3 inches wide and 5/
8 inches deep.
         (l)   Window recesses, in all windows, of at least three inches as
measured horizontally from the face of the building facade.
         (m)   Balcony that is at least 3 feet deep, 5 feet wide, and
accessible from an interior room.
         (n)   Bay window at least 1 foot deep and 3 feet wide.
         (o)   Attached garage width, as measured between the edges of the
exterior finished garage wall, of 30% or less of the total width of that
elevation.
         (p)   Permanent solar rooftop panels covering at least 60% of the roof
area.
         (q)   Workable shutters on the exterior of ground floor windows.
   (J)   Detailed design guideline. Building elevations facing streets, shared
courts, and common greens should include pedestrian oriented design elements
and other design features that provide articulation, variety, interest and
quality.
   (K)   House plan variety standards. This standard applies to new detached
single dwelling developments only.
      (1)   No 2 directly adjacent or opposite dwellings in a single dwelling
detached development of more than four units may have the same front or street-
facing facade. This standard is met when front or street-facing facades differ
from one another by at least 3 of the elements listed in divisions (K)(2)
through (K)(7) below. Where facades repeat on the same block face, they must
have at least 3 intervening lots between them that meet this standard.
      (2)   Materials. The plans specify different exterior cladding materials,
a different combination of materials, or different dimensions, spacing, or
arrangement of the same materials. This standard does not require or prohibit
any combination of materials; it only requires that plans not repeat or mirror
one another.
      (3)   Articulation. The plans have different offsets, recesses, or
projections; or the front building elevations break in different places. For
example, a plan that has a stoop entry (recess) varies from one that has an
entry under a front porch (projection). For this standard to apply, a recess
must have a minimum depth of 4 feet and a projection or offset must be at least
4 feet in depth.
      (4)   Variation in roof elevation. The plans have different roof forms
(e.g., gable versus gambrel or hip), different roof height (by at least 10%),
different orientation (e.g., front-facing versus side-facing gable), different
roof projections (e.g., with and without dormer or shed, or different type of
dormer or shed), or different roof pitch by more than 2 feet of vertical rise
to 12 feet of horizontal run.
      (5)   Entry or porch. The plans have different configuration or detailing
of the front porch or covered entrance.
      (6)   Fenestration. The plans have different placement, shape, or
orientation of windows or different placement of doors.
      (7)   Height. The elevation of the primary roofline (along the axis of
the longest roofline) changes by not less than 4 feet from building to
building, or from dwelling unit to dwelling unit, on abutting lots, as
applicable. Changes in finished grade of 8 feet or more from 1 lot to the
adjacent lot are counted toward change in height for purposes of evaluating
facade variation.
   (L)   House plan variety guideline. New residential developments should
provide a variety of house styles and means of articulation along the front
facade to avoid repetitive facades along a block face.
   (M)   Access and parking. This standard applies to new townhome development
only. Townhomes with frontage on a public street shall meet the following
standards:
      (1)   Garages on the front facade of a townhouse, off-street parking
areas in the front yard, and driveways in front of a townhouse are prohibited
unless the following standards are met. For the purposes of this section,
"driveway approach" means the edge of a driveway where it abuts a public right-
of-way.
         (a)   Each townhouse lot has a street frontage of at least 15 feet on
a local street.
         (b)   A maximum of 1 driveway approach is allowed for every townhouse.
Driveways may be shared.
         (c)   Outdoor on-site parking and maneuvering areas do not exceed 12
feet wide on any lot.
         (d)   The garage width does not exceed 12 feet, as measured from the
inside of the garage door frame.
   (N)   Driveway approach. This standard applies to new triplex and fourplex
developments only. Driveway approaches shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The total width of all driveway approaches must not exceed 20 feet
per frontage, as measured at the property line. For lots or parcels with more
than one frontage, see division (N)(3) below.
      (2)   Driveway approaches may be separated when located on a local
street. If approaches are separated, they must meet applicable driveway spacing
standards for local streets.
      (3)   In addition, lots or parcels with more than one frontage must
comply with the following:
         (a)   Lots or parcels must access the street with the lowest
classification. For lots or parcels abutting an alley, access must be taken
from the alley.
         (b)   Lots or parcels with frontages only on collectors and/or
arterial streets must meet the applicable access standards for collectors and/
or arterials.
         (c)   Triplexes and fourplexes on lots or parcels with frontages only
on local streets may have either:
            1.   Two driveway approaches not exceeding 20 feet in total width
on 1 frontage; or
            2.   One maximum 12-foot-wide driveway approach per frontage.
   (O)   There is no design guideline associated with divisions (M) or (N)
related to access, parking, or driveways. Adjustments to those standards
require an adjustment or variance approval pursuant to §§
151.320 through
151.324.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.127 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR COTTAGE CLUSTERS.
   (A)   Cottage orientation. Cottages must be clustered around a common area
and must meet the following standards. A minimum of 50% of cottages within a
cluster must be oriented to the common area and must:
      (1)   Have a main entrance facing the common area;
      (2)   Be within 10 feet from the common area, measured from the facade of
the cottage to the nearest delineation of the common area; and
      (3)   Be connected to the common area by a pedestrian path.
         (a)   Cottages within 20 feet of a street property line may have their
entrances facing the street.
         (b)   Cottages not facing the common area or the street must have
their main entrances facing a pedestrian path that is directly connected to the
common area.
   (B)   Common area design standards. Each cottage cluster must share a common
area in order to provide a sense of openness and community of residents. Common
areas must meet the following standards. For cottage cluster subdivisions, the
common area may satisfy the open space requirement of §
152.007, Preliminary Plat Approval Criteria and §§
151.335 through
151.344, Master Planned Development:
      (1)   The common area must be a single, contiguous, useable piece.
      (2)   Cottages must abut the common area on at least two sides of the
courtyard.
      (3)   The common area must contain a minimum of 150 square feet per
cottage within the associated cluster.
      (4)   The common area must be a minimum of 15 feet wide at its narrowest
dimension.
      (5)   The common area shall be developed with a mix of landscaping and
lawn area, recreational amenities, hard-surfaced pedestrian paths, and/or paved
courtyard area. Impervious elements of the common area shall not exceed 75% of
the total common area.
      (6)   Pedestrian paths qualify as part of a common area. Parking areas,
required setbacks, and driveways do not qualify as part of a common area.
   (C)   Community buildings. Cottage cluster projects may include community
buildings for the shared use of residents that provide space for accessory uses
such as community meeting rooms, guest housing, exercise rooms, day care, or
community eating areas. Community buildings must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Each cottage cluster is permitted 1 community building.
      (2)   A community building shall not exceed 1,400 square feet of floor
area.
   (D)   Pedestrian access.
      (1)   An accessible pedestrian path must be provided that connects the
main entrance of each cottage to the following:
         (a)   The common area;
         (b)   Shared parking areas;
         (c)   Community buildings; and
         (d)   Sidewalks in public rights-of-way abutting the site or roadways
if there are no sidewalks.
      (2)   The pedestrian path must be hard-surfaced and a minimum of 5 feet
wide.
   (E)   Parking design.
      (1)   Clustered parking. Off-street parking may be arranged in clusters
of not more than 5 contiguous spaces separated from other clusters by at least
4 feet of landscaping. Clustered parking areas may be covered.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces and vehicle maneuvering areas shall not
be located:
         (a)   Within of 20 feet from any street property line, except alley
property lines;
         (b)   Between a street property line, except alley property lines, and
cottages abutting the street property line.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces shall not be located within 10 feet of
any other property line, except alley property lines. Driveways and drive
aisles are permitted within 10 feet of other property lines.
      (4)   Screening. Landscaping or architectural screening at least 3 feet
tail shall separate clustered parking areas and parking structures from common
courtyards and public streets.
      (5)   Garages and carports. Garages and carports (whether shared or
individual) must not abut common courtyards. Garage doors for individual
garages must not exceed 12 feet in width.
   (F)   Existing structures. On a lot or parcel to be used for a cottage
cluster project, a preexisting detached single dwelling may remain within the
cottage cluster project area under the following conditions:
      (1)   The existing dwelling may be nonconforming with respect to the
requirements of this Code.
      (2)   Existing dwellings may be expanded up to the maximum height or
footprint required by this code; however, existing dwellings that exceed the
maximum height, footprint, and/or unit size of this Code may not be expanded.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
ON-SITE PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
§ 151.140 PURPOSE.
   This section is intended to provide consistency with the Oregon
Transportation Planning Rule (Oregon Administrative Rules, 660-012), Banks
Transportation System Plan, and to provide for safe, reasonably direct, and
convenient pedestrian access and circulation.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.141 APPLICABILITY.
   The standards in this section apply to all new commercial, mixed-use,
industrial, civic, and multi-family development.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.142 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Continuous walkway system. An on-site pedestrian walkway system shall
extend throughout the development site and connect to adjacent public
sidewalks, if any, consistent with the following:
      (1)   For commercial, civic and multi-family developments, on-site
walkways shall provide direct connections between primary building entrances
and all on-site parking areas, adjacent recreational areas and activity/
commercial hubs, future phases of development if applicable, and public rights-
of-way.
      (2)   For industrial developments, on-site walkways shall provide safe,
reasonably direct, and convenient connections between primary building
entrances and all on-site parking areas.
      (3)   Walkways shall be free from hazards and provide a smooth and
consistent surface. The city may require landscape buffering between walkways
and adjacent parking lots or driveways to mitigate safety concerns.
      (4)   The walkway network shall connect to all primary building
entrances, consistent with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements
where required.
   (B)   Except as required for crosswalks, per division (C) below, where a
walkway abuts a driveway or street it shall be raised 6 inches and curbed along
the edge of the driveway or street. Alternatively, the city may approve a
walkway abutting a driveway at the same grade as the driveway if the walkway is
physically separated from all vehicle maneuvering areas. An example of such
separation is a row of bollards (designed for use in parking areas) with
adequate minimum spacing between them to prevent vehicles from entering the
walkway.
   (C)   Crossings. Where a walkway crosses an on-site parking area or
driveway, it shall be clearly marked with contrasting paving materials (e.g.,
pavers, light-color concrete inlay between asphalt, or similar contrasting
material). The crosswalk may be part of a speed table to improve driver-
visibility of pedestrians. Painted or thermoplastic striping and similar types
of non-permanent applications may be approved for crossings not exceeding 24
feet in length.
   (D)   Walkway width and surface. Walkways shall be constructed of concrete,
asphalt, brick or masonry pavers, or other durable surface, meeting ADA
requirements, as approved by the City Engineer. Walkways shall be not less than
4 feet in width, except that concrete walkways a minimum of 6 feet in width are
required in commercial developments. The city may also require 6-foot-wide, or
wider, concrete sidewalks in other developments where pedestrian traffic
warrants walkways wider than 4 feet.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND FENCING
§ 151.155 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The standards in this section apply to all new
development requiring Site Design Review per §§
151.250 through
151.256.
   (B)   Minimum landscape area. All lots shall conform to the minimum
landscape area standard of the applicable zone.
   (C)   Plant selection. A combination of deciduous and evergreen trees,
shrubs, and ground covers shall be used for all planted areas, the selection of
which shall be based on local climate, exposure, water availability, and
drainage conditions, among other factors. When new vegetation is planted, soils
shall be amended and irrigation shall be provided, as necessary, to allow for
healthy plant growth. The selection of plants shall be based on all the
following standards and guidelines:
      (1)   Use plants that are appropriate to urban areas and the local
climate, exposure, and water availability. The presence of utilities and
drainage conditions shall also be considered. The city may rely on Oregon State
University Extension Service bulletins/University of Washington Urban Forestry
Program guidelines/or other expert sources in evaluating landscape plans.
      (2)   Plant species that do not require irrigation once established
(naturalized) are required.
      (3)   Trees shall be not less than 2-inch caliper at the time of
planting. Trees to be planted under or near power lines shall be selected so
they will not conflict with power lines at maturity.
      (4)   Shrubs shall be planted from 5-gallon containers, minimum, where
they are for required screens or buffers, and 2-gallon containers minimum
elsewhere.
      (5)   Shrubs shall be spaced in order to provide the intended screen or
canopy cover within 2 years of planting.
      (6)   All landscape areas, whether required or not, that are not planted
with trees and shrubs or covered with allowable non-plant material, shall have
ground cover plants that are sized and spaced to achieve plant coverage of not
less than 75% at maturity.
      (7)   Bark dust, chips, aggregate, or other non-plant ground covers may
be used, but shall cover not more than 25% of any landscape area. Non-plant
ground covers cannot be a substitute for required ground cover plants.
      (8)   Where storm water retention or detention, or water quality
treatment facilities are proposed, they shall be planted with water-tolerant
species.
      (9)   Existing mature trees that can thrive in a developed area and that
do not conflict with other provisions of this Code shall be retained where
specimens are in good health and do not present a hazard.
      (10)   Landscape plans shall avoid conflicts between plants and
buildings, streets, walkways, utilities, and other features of the built
environment.
      (11)   Evergreen plants shall be used where a sight-obscuring landscape
screen is required.
      (12)   Deciduous trees should be used where summer shade and winter
sunlight are desirable.
      (13)   Landscape plans should provide focal points within a development,
for example, by preserving large or unique trees or groves or by using
flowering plants or trees with fall color.
      (14)   Landscape plans should use a combination of plants for seasonal
variation in color and yearlong interest.
      (15)   Landscape plans shall provide for both temporary and permanent
erosion control measures, which shall include plantings where cuts or fills,
including berms, swales, storm water detention facilities, and similar grading,
is proposed.
      (16)   When new vegetation is planted, soils shall be amended and
irrigation provided, as necessary, until the plants are established and able to
grow on their own.
   (D)   Xeriscape requirements. All industrial and commercial development that
is subject to the requirements of this chapter must incorporate the following
xeriscape methods in any landscape plan submitted for city review. For
residential development, xeriscape methods are encouraged but not required.
      (1)   Limited turf areas. Within the required vegetated area, the total
amount of lawn (i.e., turf) may not exceed 25% of the total vegetated area. In
addition, lawns should be separated from trees, flower beds and other
groundcover that do not have similar water needs as lawn/turf. Lawns may not be
planted in strips less than 5-feet wide due to the difficulty in controlling
irrigation over-spray and resulting water waste in such areas.
      (2)   Use of drought tolerant plants. Only drought tolerant native and
non-invasive exotic species may be used in xeriscape plantings.
      (3)   Alternative groundcover. Whenever possible, mulched planting beds
and native plant communities should be used to meet landscape requirements.
Beds may be mulched with any suitable organic or inorganic groundcover,
provided that no more than 25% of the total vegetated area ismulched with
inorganic material. Preservation and re-establishment of native plant
communities as part of landscape designs is encouraged.
   (E)   Landscaping plan required. A landscape plan is required for submittal
and approval for all new subject developments. Submittal of a landscape plan
drawn to scale shall show information and conform to requirements as follows:
      (1)   The location and height of existing and proposed fences, buffering
or screening materials.
      (2)   The location, size, and type of existing trees having a 6-inch or
greater diameter measured 4.5 feet above ground.
      (3)   Method of irrigation for proposed trees and plant materials.
      (4)   An arborist's report may be required for sites with mature trees to
be preserved and protected during construction.
      (5)   Other information as deemed appropriate by the Planning Official.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.156 SCREENING AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   Screening. Screening shall be used to eliminate or reduce the visual
impacts of the following uses:
      (1)   Commercial and industrial uses when abutting residential uses.
      (2)   Industrial uses when abutting commercial uses.
      (3)   Service areas and facilities, including garbage and waste disposal
containers, recycling bins, and loading areas.
      (4)   Outdoor storage areas.
      (5)   Parking areas for 20 or more vehicles.
      (6)   At and above grade electrical and mechanical equipment, such as
transformers, heat pumps, and air conditioners.
   (B)   Screening methods. Screening may be accomplished by using sight
obscuring plant materials (generally evergreens), earth berms, walls, fences,
building parapets, building placement or other design techniques. Screening
should be a minimum height of 6 feet.
   (C)   Buffering. Buffering is required between an industrial use and any
non-industrial use to mitigate adverse visual impacts, dust, noise or
pollution, and to provide for compatibility between dissimilar adjoining uses.
Where buffering is required, one of the following buffering alternatives shall
be employed:
      (1)   Planting area. Width not less than 15 feet, planted with either one
row of trees staggered and spaced not more than fifteen 15 feet apart; or, at
least one row of shrubs forming a continuous hedge at least 5 feet in height
within 2 years of planting.
      (2)   Berm plus planting area. Width not less than 10 feet, with the
combined total height of the berm and hedge not less than 5 feet.
      (3)   Wall plus planting area. Width must not be less than 5 feet with a
masonry wall or fence not less than 5 feet in height and lawn, shrubs or ground
cover covering the remaining area.
      (4)   Other approved methods which produce an adequate buffer considering
the nature of the impacts to be mitigated.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.157 FENCES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section contains the general policies and requirements
regarding the location, placement, restrictions, permitting, and fees
associated with fences.
   (B)   Permitting and fees. All new fences and major renovations that change
the height or location of an existing fence must have permits. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct a fence or modify an
existing part thereof without compliance with the standards described herein
and first obtaining a permit from the city. A fence permit application signed
by the property owner shall include information regarding the type, height, and
location of the proposed fence; agreement to maintain the landscape strip in
the front yard (if applicable); and be accompanied by a filing fee to cover the
cost of permit review and site inspection.
   (C)   General fence provisions.
      (1)   A fence on a corner lot shall not violate the 20-foot vision
clearance triangle as specified in §
151.205.
      (2)   In no instance shall a fence extend beyond the property line or be
constructed higher than 6 feet above the finished grade of the lot. (A lower
height fence may be required as described under division (E) below.).
      (3)   Fencing shall be installed at least 3 feet from a utility pedestal
or electrical transformer and not completely enclose them.
      (4)   Requirements specified under divisions (C)(1) through (C)(3) above
and the specific restrictions specified under divisions (E) through (G) below
are applicable to site landscaping such as hedges, trees, and shrubbery.
      (5)   Fencing for residential swimming pools shall comply with the
barrier requirements specified in the International One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code, as administered by the Washington County Building Services
Division.
      (6)   The use of barbed wire, electric fencing (above grade), or other
types of injury causing fencing material shall be prohibited in the residential
and CF Zones.
   (D)   Specific front and street side yard fence restrictions.
      (1)   A fence located in a required front yard or street side yard shall
not exceed 3.5 feet in height measured from the original finished grade of the
lot, except as provided in (D)(2) below.
      (2)   Street side yards of corner lots may have a 6-foot fence or hedge
installed in the street side yard, provided the following requirements are
satisfied.
         (a)   The street intersection for the corner lot shall be controlled
by stop signs on at least 1 of the intersecting streets.
         (b)   A minimum clear sight distance of up to 250 feet measured from
the street intersection along the side yard street shall be provided for a
street with a speed limit of 25 mph. For streets with higher speed limits, the
minimum clear sight distance shall be equal to 10 times the legal speed of the
street.
         (c)   Driveway access is allowed in the street side yard on the
subject property or abutting lot so long as such access is not obscured by a
fence.
   (E)   Specific side and rear yard fence restrictions. Fences located within
a required side or rear yard shall not exceed 6 feet in height as measured from
the ground on either side of the fence. The fence may be located on the common
lot line.
   (F)   Through lot fence restrictions. In the case of a through lot, the yard
facing the rear of the house may be considered a rear yard for fence height
purposes, provided there is no driveway access from the rear yard and the
minimum clear sight distance for adjacent driveways on either side of the lot
is maintained as required under division (D)(3)(b) above. See the illustration
in §
151.009.
   Figure 3.5-A Fence Height in Front and Street Side Yards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1948.png]
 
   Figure 3.5-B Corner Lots Having Abutting Street Side Yards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1950.png]
 
   Figure 3.5-C Corner Lot Having Street Side Yard Abutting Neighbor's Front
Yard
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1955.png]
 
(Ord . 2021- 08- 02, pass ed 10- 12- 2021)
PARKING AND LOADING
§ 151.170 PURPOSE.
   This section contains requirements for vehicle and bicycle parking. It
provides standards for the location, size, and design of parking areas to
ensure such areas can be accessed safely and efficiently. The code also
encourages non-motorized transportation by requiring bicycle parking for some
uses.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.171 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Where the regulations apply. The regulations of this chapter apply to
all parking areas in all zones, at all times, whether parking is required by
this Code or put in for the convenience of property owners or users.
   (B)   Occupancy. All required parking areas must be developed in accordance
with the requirements of this code prior to occupancy of any structure on the
subject site. Where landscaping, screening or other improvements are required
pursuant to this Code, all such improvements must be installed and approved by
the Planning Official prior to occupancy.
   (C)   Calculations of amounts of required and allowed parking.
      (1)   When computing parking spaces based on floor area, parking
structures and non-leasable floor spaces, such as storage closets, mechanical
equipment rooms, and similar spaces, are not counted.
      (2)   The number of parking spaces is computed based on the primary uses
on the site except as stated in division (C)(3), below. When there are two or
more separate primary uses on a site, the minimum and maximum parking for the
site is the sum of the required or allowed parking for the individual primary
uses. For shared parking, see §
151.172(D) below.
      (3)   When more than 20% of the floor area on a site is in an accessory
use, the required or allowed parking is calculated separately for the accessory
use. An example would be a 10,000 square foot building with a 7,000 square foot
warehouse and a 3,000 square foot accessory retail area. The minimum and
maximum parking would be computed separately for the retail and warehouse uses.
   (D)   Use of required parking spaces. Required parking spaces must be
available for residents, customers, or employees of the use. Fees may be
charged for the use of required parking spaces. Required parking spaces may not
be assigned in any way to a use on another site, except for shared parking
pursuant to §
151.172(D).
   (E)   Proximity of parking to use. Required parking spaces for
nonresidential uses must be located on the site of the use or in a parking area
that has its closest pedestrian access point within 1,320 feet of the site.
   (F)   Improvement of parking areas. Motorized vehicle parking is allowed
only within garages, carports, and other approved structures, and on driveways
or parking lots. For residential uses, tandem parking arrangements are allowed.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.172 NUMBER OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
TABLE 3.6-A: VEHICLE PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use Minimum Number of Vehicle Parking Spaces Required
TABLE 3.6-A: VEHICLE PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use                                        Minimum Number of Vehicle Parking
                                           Spaces Required
Residential Uses
Single-family detached dwelling            2 per dwelling
Duplex                                     2 per unit (4 total)
Townhome                                   2 per unit
Cottage cluster                            2 per unit
Triplex, fourplex and multi-family         1 per unit for studio or 1-bedroom;
                                           2 per unit for 2 or more bedrooms
Commercial Uses
Automotive repair, service, sales, rental  1 per 1,000 sf. of floor area
Commercial retail sales and service        1 per 400 sf. of floor area
Eating and drinking establishments         1 per 300 sf. of floor area
Hotel or motel                             1 per guest room
Amusement, entertainment, commercial       1 per 500 sf. of floor area, or per
recreation                                 conditional use permit
Office uses (professional, medical,        1 per 500 sf. of floor area
clinic)
Day care centers                           1 per 2,000 sf. of floor area
Wholesale and distribution business        1 per 1,5000 sf. of floor area
Institutional Uses
Community service, governmental            Per conditional use permit
institution
Medical institutions offering overnight    1 per 2 beds
care and treatment
Schools                                     
   Elementary and middle school         1 per classroom
   High School                          1 per classroom
Religious institutions, public assembly    1 per 100 sf. of assembly space
Industrial/Manufacturing Uses
Industrial/manufacturing/processing         
   Less than 100,000 sf. of floor area  1 per 3,000 sf.
   100,000 sf. of floor area or greater 1 per 4,000 sf.
Warehousing and storage                    0.5 per 1,000 sf. of floor area
 
   (C)   Maximum amount of parking allowed. In the nonresidential zones, the
maximum number of off-street parking spaces allowed per use is:
      (1)   One and one-fifth times the minimum parking required for uses
fronting a street with adjacent on-street parking spaces; or
      (2)   One and one-half times the minimum parking required for uses
fronting a street with no adjacent on-street parking
   (D)   Shared parking. Required parking facilities for two or more uses,
structures, or parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking facilities
used jointly, to the extent that the owners or operators show that the need for
parking facilities does not materially overlap (e.g., uses primarily of a
daytime versus nighttime nature; weekday uses versus weekend uses), and
provided that the right of joint use is evidenced by a recorded deed, lease,
contract, or similar written instrument establishing the joint use.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.173 PARKING DETERMINATION.
   The applicant may propose a parking standard that is different than the
standard under §
151.172, above, for review and action by the Planning Commission through a Type
III procedure pursuant to §
151.233. The parking analysis, at a minimum, shall assess the expected parking
demand and available supply for existing and proposed uses on the subject site;
opportunities for shared parking with other uses in the vicinity; existing
public parking in the vicinity; transportation options existing or planned near
the site; and other relevant factors.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.174 OFF-STREET PARKING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A )    Generally . All off-street parking lots shall be designed in
accordance with city standards for stalls and aisles as set forth in the below
drawing and table.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1961.png]
 
      (1)   For 1 row of stalls use "C" plus "D" as minimum bay width.
      (2)   Public alley width may be included as part of dimension "D", but
all parking stalls must be on private property, off the public right-of-way.
      (3)   For estimating available parking area, use 350 sq. ft. per vehicle
for stall, aisle and access areas.
      (4)   The stall width for self-parking of long duration is 8.6 feet; for
higher turnover self-parking is 9.0 feet; and for supermarkets and similar
facilities is 9.5 to 10.0 feet.
      (5)   The minimum aisle width for 2-way traffic and for emergency vehicle
operations area is 24 feet. The minimum aisle width for emergency vehicle
access (one-way traffic) is 20 feet.
      (6)   Where appropriate bumper overhang area is provided (extruded
curbs), "G" can be subtracted from "C" to determine stall depth. Dimensions of
required recreational vehicle spaces are 10-feet by 25- feet.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   For 1 row of stalls use "C" plus "D" as minimum bay width.
      (2)   Public alley width may be included as part of dimension "O," but
all parking stalls must be on private property, off the public right-of-way.
      (3)   For estimating available parking area, use 350 square feet per
vehicle for stall, aisle, and access areas.
      (4)   The stall width for self-parking of long duration is 8.6 feet; for
higher turnover self-parking, is 9.0 feet; and for supermarkets and similar
facilities is 9.5 to 10.0 feet.
      (5)   The minimum aisle width for 2-way traffic and for emergency vehicle
operations area is 24 feet. The minimum aisle width for emergency vehicle
access (1-way traffic) is 20 feet.
      (6)   Where appropriate bumper overhang area is provided (extruded
curbs), "G" can be subtracted from "C" to determine stall depth. Dimensions of
required recreational vehicle spaces are 10 feet by 25 feet.
         (a)   Parking space plans. No building permit shall be issued until
plans are presented that show property that is and will remain available
exclusively for off-street parking. The subsequent use of property for which
the permit is issued shall be conditional upon the unqualified continuance and
availability of the amount of parking space required by this chapter. Reduction
of the amount of required off-street parking shall be considered a violation of
this chapter. Parking plans shall be drawn to scale and shall delineate parking
spaces, drives and aisles, bumper rails, and other features required by this
chapter.
   (C)   Surfacing. All off-street parking spaces and driveways shall be hard
surfaced with concrete, asphaltic cement, or similar surface, which is
resistant to dust, and mud. Type and thickness of this hard surface must be
approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   Bumper rails. All required off-street parking spaces, except those for
single-family residences, must be equipped with bumper rails located in such a
manner as to prevent vehicles from striking landscaping, fences, buildings, or
walls, or from overhanging their spaces in a manner which might obstruct
aisles, walks, or other spaces or property.
   (E)   Access and maneuvering.
      (1)   Groups of more than 4 off-street parking spaces shall be served by
a driveway or aisle so that no backing movements or other maneuvering within a
street other than an alley will be required.
      (2)   Service drives or aisles to off-street parking areas shall be
designed and constructed to facilitate the flow of traffic and to provide
maximum safety to pedestrians and vehicular traffic on the site.
      (3)   Service drives or aisles shall be clearly and permanently marked
and defined through the use of bumper rails, fences, buildings, walls,
paintings, or other appropriate markers and shall not be considered as parking
spaces.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.175 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   All the following standards shall be met for parking lots with 4 or more
parking spaces. If a development contains multiple parking lots, then the
standards shall be evaluated separately for each parking lot.
   (A)   A minimum of 10% of the total surface area of subject parking areas,
as measured around the perimeter of all parking spaces and maneuvering areas,
shall be landscaped. Such landscaping shall consist of canopy trees distributed
throughout the parking area. A combination of deciduous and evergreen trees,
shrubs, and ground cover plants is required. The trees shall be planned so that
they provide a 50% canopy cover over the parking lot when the trees reach
maturity.
   (B)   All parking areas with more than 20 spaces shall provide landscape
islands with trees that break up the parking area into rows of not more than 10
to 12 contiguous parking spaces. Landscape islands and planters shall have
dimensions of not less than 48 square feet of area and no dimension of less
than 6 feet, to ensure adequate soil, water, and space for healthy plant
growth.
   (C)   All required parking lot landscape areas not otherwise planted with
trees must contain a combination of shrubs and groundcover plants so that,
within 2 years of planting, not less than 75% of that area is covered with
living plants.
   (D)   Wheel stops, curbs, bollards, or other physical barriers are required
along the edges of all vehicle-maneuvering areas to protect landscaping from
being damaged by vehicles. Trees shall be planted not less than two feet from
any such barrier.
   (E)   Trees planted in tree wells within sidewalks or other paved areas
shall be installed with root barriers, consistent with applicable nursery
standards.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.176 PARKING LOT ENCLOSURE AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Any portion of an off-street parking area, other than that for a
single-family residence, which adjoins a residential zone shall be screened
from the adjoining residential area by a sight-obscuring fence having a minimum
height of 6 feet, and/or by a dense evergreen landscape screen which attains a
height of at least 6 feet within 2 growing seasons.
   (B)   Parking lots abutting a public street, sidewalk or walkway shall be
screened using a sight-obscuring fence, low-growing hedge or low garden wall to
a height of between 3 feet and 4 feet.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.177 BICYCLE PARKING.
   All uses that are subject to site design review shall provide bicycle
parking, in conformance with the standards in the table below, and following
divisions.
   (A)   Minimum required bicycle parking spaces. Uses shall provide long- and
short-term bicycle parking spaces, as designated in the table below. Where 2
options are provided (e.g., 2 spaces, or 1 per 8 bedrooms), the option
resulting in more bicycle parking is used.
USE CATEGORIES SPECIFIC USES LONG-TERM SPACES (COVERED SHORT-TERM SPACES (NEAR
                             OR ENCLOSED)              BUILDING ENTRY)
                                       LONG-TERM SPACES    SHORT-TERM SPACES
USE CATEGORIES     SPECIFIC USES       (COVERED OR         (NEAR BUILDING
                                       ENCLOSED)           ENTRY)
Residential Categories
Household Living   Multi-Family        1 per 4 units       2, or 1 per 20 units
                                      2, or 1 per 20      None
Group Living                           bedrooms
                   Dormitory           1 per 8 bedrooms    None
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales and                       2, or 1 per 12,000  2, or 1 per 5,000
Service                               sq. ft. of floor    sq. ft. of floor
                                       area                area
                  Lodging             2, or 1 per 20      2, or 1 per 20
                                       rentable rooms      rentable rooms
                                       2, or 1 per 10,000  2, or 1 per 40,000
Office                                sq. ft. of floor    sq. ft. of floor
                                       area                area
Commercial outdoor                    8, or 1 per 20 auto None
recreation                             spaces
Major event                           8, or 1 per 40      None
entertainment                          seats per CU review
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing and                      2, or 1 per 15,000
production                            sq. ft. of floor    None
                                       area
Warehouse and                          2, or 1 per 40,000
freight movement                      sq. ft. of floor    None
                                       area
Institutional Categories
Basic utilities    Bus transit center  8                   None
                  Park and ride       8, or 5 per acre    None
                                       2, or 1 per 10,000  2, or 1 per 10,000
Community service                     sq. ft. of floor    sq. ft. of floor
                                       area                area
Parks (active
recreation areas                      None                8, or per CU review
only)
                   Grades 2-5          1 per classroom, or 1 per classroom, or
Schools                                per CU review       per CU review
                   Grades 6-12         2 per classroom, or 4 per school, or per
                                       per CU review       CU review
                   Excluding           2, or 1 per 20,000  2, or 1 per 10,000
Colleges           dormitories (see    sq. ft. of net      sq. ft. of net
                   group living above) building area, or   building area, or
                                       per CU review       per CU review
                                       2, or 1 per 70,000  2, or 1 per 40,000
                                       sq, ft. of net      sq.
Medial centers                        building area, or   ft. of net building
                                       per CU review       area, or per CU
                                                           review
Religious                              2, or 1 per 4,000   2, or 1 per 2,000
institutions and                      sq. ft. of net      sq. ft. of floor
places of worship                      building area       area
Institutional Categories
                                       2, or 1 per 10,000
Day care                              sq. ft. of net      None
                                       building area
Other Categories
Other categories   Determined through land use review, site design review, or
                   CU review, as applicable
 
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to single-family and two-
family housing (attached, detached, or manufactured housing), home occupations,
agriculture and livestock uses.
   (C)   Location. Bicycle parking should be no farther from the main building
entrance than the distance to the closest vehicle space, or 50 feet, whichever
is less. Long-term (i.e., covered) bicycle parking should be incorporated
whenever possible into building design. Short-term bicycle parking, when
allowed within a public right-of-way, should be coordinated with the design of
street furniture, as applicable.
   (D)   Design. "Inverted U" or "staple" style racks should be considered.
Bicycle racks shall provide a secure point of contact so that both the frame
and wheel of a bicycle may be locked to the rack using a standard U lock.
Bicycle racks are recommended to provide two points of contact between the rack
and the bicycle in order to hold the bicycle securely and prevent pivoting or
tipping. Individual "inverted U" or "staple" style racks shall be placed to
encourage bicycles to be parked parallel to the rack and achieve maximum
capacity. Where multiple racks are placed together, racks shall be placed
parallel to each other spaced on 4- foot centers to allow access to both sides
of each rack. Racks shall be placed so that a 6-foot bicycle may be parked
without interference from nearby walls or fixed objects.
   (E)   Visibility and security. Bicycle parking for customers and visitors of
a use shall be visible from street sidewalks or building entrances, so that it
provides sufficient security from theft and damage.
   (F)   Options for storage. Long-term bicycle parking requirements for
multiple family uses and employee parking can be met by providing a bicycle
storage room, bicycle lockers, racks, or other secure storage space inside or
outside of the building.
   (G)   Lighting. For security, bicycle parking shall be at least as well lit
as vehicle parking.
   (H)   Reserved areas. Areas set aside for bicycle parking shall be clearly
marked and reserved for bicycle parking only.
   (I)   Hazards. Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians. Parking areas shall be located so as to not conflict with vision
clearance standards.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.178 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or structure subject to the use requirements of this section
shall be erected, nor shall any such existing building or structure be altered
in any zone so as to increase its gross floor area to an amount exceeding 25%
of its existing gross floor area at the time of passage of this chapter, nor
shall a change of use occur without prior provisions for off-street loading
space in conformance with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Number of required spaces. The following numbers and types of berths
shall be provided for the specified uses per Table 3.6-C below. The uses
specified below shall include all structures designed, intended, or arranged
for the use.
 
TABLE 3.6-C OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENT
Use                           Aggregate Floor Area (sq.  Berths Required Type
                              ft.)
Freight terminals, industrial 12,000 - 36,000            1               A
plants, manufacturing or      36,000 - 60,000            2               A
wholesale establishments,     60,000 - 100,000           3               A
warehouses                    each additional 50,000 or  1 additional    A
                              fraction thereof
                              25,000 - 150,000           1               B
Auditorium, motel convention  150,000 - 400,000          2               B
halls, or sport arenas        each additional 250,000 or 1 additional    B
                              fraction thereof
Department stores, retail     7,000 - 24,000
establishments, restaurants,  24,000 - 50,000            1               B
funeral homes, and commercial 50,000 - 100,000           2               B
establishments not otherwise  Over 100,000               3               B
specified                     Each additional 50,000 or  1 additional    B
                              major fraction thereof
                              25,000 - 40,000            1               B
Hotels or office buildings    40,000 - 100,000           2               B
                              Each additional 100,000 or 1 additional    B
                              major fraction thereof
Schools                       Over 14,000                1               B
 
   (B)   Design standards. Required off-street loading space shall be provided
in berths which conform to the following minimum specifications.
      (1)   Type "A" berths shall be at least 60 feet long by 12-feet wide by
15-feet high, (inside dimensions), with a 60-foot maneuvering apron.
      (2)   Type "B" berths shall be at least 30-feet long by 12-feet wide by
14 feet 6 inches high, (inside dimensions), with 30-foot maneuvering apron.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 151.190 PURPOSE.
   This section includes provisions intended to control outdoor lighting in
order to reduce light pollution, preserve the night sky for astronomy, protect
flora and fauna from the negative effects of artificial light, and conserve
energy.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.191 APPLICABILITY.
   The standards in this subchapter apply to all new development in all zones.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.192 STANDARD.
   All exterior lighting shall be shielded and reflected downward, as shown in
Figure 3.7-A, to minimize glare and prevent light trespass on adjacent parcels,
other land uses, and street rights-of-way.
   Figure 3.7-A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1970.png]
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.205 VISION CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Corner lots shall have vision clearance as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   In zones where front yards are required, each leg of the vision
clearance triangle shall be a minimum of 20 feet in length.
      (2)   Vision clearance triangles shall be kept free of all visual
obstructions from 2 and 1/2 feet to 9 feet above the curb line. Where curbs are
absent, the crown of adjacent streets shall be used as the point of reference.
      (3)   Vision clearance requirements on corner lots may be waived by the
City Council or his or her designee, if the City Council finds that:
         (a)   Traffic entering the intersection is controlled by traffic
signals or stop signs;
         (b)   The distance from the curb line to the property line is 10 feet
or more; and
         (c)   On-street vehicle parking, street trees or other plantings do
not interfere with necessary vision clearance; or, in lieu of these 3 findings,
that;
         (d)   Topographic conditions are so extreme that it is not practical
to provide required vision clearance.
   Figure 3.8-A Vision Clearance Triangle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1976.png]
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
PUBLIC FACILITIES
§ 151.215 TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES.
   All land use and development applications shall comply with the following
standards and procedures for the purpose of protecting the future operation of
the Banks transportation system:
   (A)   Development standards. The following standards shall be met for all
new uses and developments:
      (1)   All new lots created, consolidated, or modified through a land
division, partition, lot line adjustment, lot consolidation, or street vacation
must have frontage or approved access to a public street.
      (2)   Streets within or adjacent to a development shall be improved in
accordance with the Banks street design standards (§
152.052).
      (3)   Development of new streets, and additional street width or
improvements planned as a portion of an existing street, shall be improved in
accordance with this section, and public streets shall be dedicated to the
applicable road authority.
      (4)   New streets and drives shall be paved.
   (B)   Guarantee. The city may accept a future improvement guarantee (e.g.,
owner agrees not to object to the formation of a local improvement district in
the future) in lieu of street improvements if one or more of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   A partial improvement would create a potential safety hazard to
motorists or pedestrians;
      (2)   Due to the developed condition of adjacent properties, it is
unlikely that street improvements would be extended in the foreseeable future
and the improvement associated with the project under review does not, by
itself, provide increased street safety or capacity, or improved pedestrian
circulation;
      (3)   The improvement would be in conflict with an adopted capital
improvement plan; or
      (4)   The improvement is associated with an approved land partition in a
residential zone and the proposed land partition does not create any new
streets.
   (C)   Creation of rights-of-way for streets and related purposes. Streets
shall be created through the approval and recording of a final subdivision or
partition plat; except the city may approve the creation of a street by
acceptance of a deed, provided that the street is deemed in the public interest
by the City Council for the purpose of implementing the Comprehensive Plan, and
the deeded right-of-way conforms to the standards of this code.
   (D)   Creation of access easements. The city may approve an access easement
when the easement is necessary to provide for access and circulation in
conformance with §§
152.052 (Streets);
152.053 (Blocks) and;
152.054 (Building Sites). Access easements shall be created and maintained in
accordance with the Uniform Fire Code Section 10.207.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.216 CITY MAY REQUIRE TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS.
   (A)   The city may require a traffic impact analysis (TIA) prepared by a
qualified professional to determine access, circulation, and other
transportation requirements in conformance with TIA results. TIA's shall be
required for all proposed development that will generate more than 100 a.m. or
p.m. peak hour trips per day or 600 average daily trips. Trip calculation shall
be based upon Trip Generation, 8th Edition (2008) published by the Institute of
Transportation Engineers.
   (B)   Amendments that affect transportation facilities. Amendments to the
comprehensive plan and land use regulations which significantly affect a
transportation facility shall assure that allowed land uses are consistent with
the function, capacity, and level of service of the facility. This shall be
accomplished by one of the following:
      (1)   Adopting measures that demonstrate that allowed land uses are
consistent with the planned function of the transportation facility;
      (2)   Amending the Comprehensive Plan to provide transportation
facilities, improvements, or services adequate to support the proposed land
uses; such amendments shall include a funding plan to ensure the facility,
improvement, or service will be provided by the end of the planning period;
      (3)   Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements
to reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other
modes of transportation;
      (4)   Amending the planned function, capacity, or performance standards
of the transportation facility; or
      (5)   Providing other measures as a condition of development or through a
development agreement or similar funding method, specifying when such measures
will be provided.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.217 WHEN TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY IS REQUIRED; PREPARATION.
   The purpose of this section of the code is to assist in determining which
road authorities participate in land use decisions, and to implement Section
660-012-0045(2)(e) of the State Transportation Planning Rule that requires the
city to adopt a process to apply conditions to development proposals in order
to minimize impacts and protect transportation facilities. This chapter
establishes the standards for when a proposal must be reviewed for potential
traffic impacts; when a traffic impact analysis must be submitted with a
development application in order to determine whether conditions are needed to
minimize impacts to and protect transportation facilities; what must be in a
traffic impact analysis; and who is qualified to prepare the study.
   (A)   When a traffic impact study is required. The city or other road
authority with jurisdiction may require a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) as part
of an application for development, a change in use or a change in access. A TIA
shall be required when a land use application involves one or more of the
following actions:
      (1)   A change in zoning or a plan amendment designation;
      (2)   Any proposed development or land use action that a road authority
states may have operational or safety concerns along its facility(ies);
      (3)   An increase in site traffic volume generation by 300 Average Daily
Trips (ADT) or more;
      (4)   An increase in peak hour volume of a particular movement to and
from the state highway by 20% or more; or
       (5)   An increase in use of adjacent streets by vehicles exceeding the
20,000-pound gross vehicle weights by 10 vehicles or more per day;
      (6)   The location of the access driveway does not meet minimum sight
distance requirements, or is located where vehicles entering or leaving the
property are restricted, or such vehicles queue or hesitate on the state
highway creating a safety hazard; or
      (7)   A change in internal traffic patterns that may cause safety
problems, such as back up onto a street or greater potential for traffic
accidents.
   (B)   Traffic impact study preparation. A traffic impact analysis shall be
prepared by a professional engineer in accordance with the requirements of the
road authority. If the road authority is the Oregon Department of
Transportation (ODOT), consult ODOT's regional development review planner and
OAR 734-051-180.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.218 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   Performance bonds may be required in the cases where the City Council
determines that such shall be necessary to guarantee proper completion of
required improvements within time periods specified.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
APPLICATIONS AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 151.230. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter establishes standard decision-making procedures
for the review of land use and development applications, affording the public a
means of participating in the local decision-making process in an efficient
manner. Table 4.1-A provides a key for determining the applicable review
procedure for land use approvals in the City of Banks.
   (B)   Applicability of review procedures. All land use and development
permits and approvals in the city shall follow the procedures contained in this
chapter. The procedure "type" assigned to each application governs the
decision-making process for that permit or approval. There are 4 types of
permit/approval procedures as described below and as identified in
Table 4.1-A.
      (1)   Type I procedure (staff review - zoning checklist). Type I
decisions are made by the City Planning Official, or their designee, without
public notice and without a public hearing. Type I decisions are not
appealable. A Type I procedure is used in applying city standards and criteria
that do not require the use of discretion (i.e., there are clear and objective
standards).
      (2)   Type II procedure (administrative/staff review with notice).
Decisions are made by the City Planning Official, with public notice and an
opportunity for appeal to the Planning Commission. Alternatively, the City
Planning Official may refer an administrative land use application to the
Planning Commission for its review and decision in a public meeting.
      (3)   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial review - public hearing). Type
III decisions are made by the Planning Commission after a public hearing, with
an opportunity for appeal to the City Council; or in the case of a quasi-
judicial zone change (e.g., a change in zoning on one property to comply with
the Comprehensive Plan), a Type III decision is made by the City Council on
recommendation of the Planning Commission. Quasi-judicial decisions involve
discretion but implement established policy.
      (4)   Type IV procedure (legislative review). The Type IV procedure
applies to the creation or revision, or large-scale implementation, of public
policy (e.g., adoption of regulations, zone changes, annexation, and
comprehensive plan amendments). Type IV reviews are considered by the Planning
Commission, which makes a recommendation to City Council. City Council makes
the final decision on a legislative proposal through the enactment of an
ordinance. Appeals of a City Council Type IV decision go to the Oregon Land Use
Board of Appeals (LUBA).
TABLE 4.1-A: SUMMARY OF APPROVALS BY TYPE OF REVIEW PROCEDURE
Approvals* Review Procedures Applicable Regulations
TABLE 4.1-A: SUMMARY OF APPROVALS BY TYPE OF REVIEW PROCEDURE
Approvals*                      Review Procedures Applicable Regulations
                                                  §§
Adjustments                     Type II           151.320 -
                                                  151.324 Adjustments and
                                                  Variances
                                                  §§
Amendments to Zoning Map or                       151.300 -
Text                            Type III or IV    151.306 Amendments to
                                                  Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
                                                  Map, and Text
                                                  Banks Municipal Code, §§
Annexation                      Type IV           33.01 -
                                                  33.06
Code Interpretation             Type II or III    §
                                                  151.006 Code Interpretations
                                                  §§
Comprehensive Plan Map or Text                    151.300 -
Amendment                       Type IV           151.306 Amendments to
                                                  Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
                                                  Map, and Text
                                                  §§
Conditional Use Permits         Type III          151.270 -
                                                  151.273 Conditional Use
                                                  Permits
Historic Resource Alteration or                   §
Demolition                      Typ e III         151.065 Historic Resource
                                                  Overlay Zone H
                                                  §§
                                                  151.075 -
                                                  151.085 Special Use Standards
                                                  §§
Home Occupation                 Type I or III     151.250 -
                                                  151.256 Site Design Review
                                                  §§
                                                  151.270 -
                                                  151.273 Conditional Use
                                                  Permits
                                                  §
Legal Lot Determination         Type I            151.005 Lot of Record and
                                                  Legal Lot Determination
                                                  §§
Master Planned Developments                      151.335 -
   Concept Plan              Type III          151.344 Master Planned
   Detailed Development Plan Type II           Developments
   Site Design Review        Type II           §§
                                                  151.250 -
                                                  151.256 Site Design Review
Modifications to Approved Plans                  §§
and Conditions                  Type I or II      151.285 -
   Minor Modifications       Type III          151.288 Modifications to
   Major Modifications                         Approved Plan and Conditions
                                                  §
Nonconforming Situations        Type II           151.355 Nonconforming
                                                  Situations
Parking Determination           Type II           §
                                                  151.173 Parking Determination
Partition or Replat of 2 - 3                       
lots                                             §
   Preliminary Plat          Type III          152.004
   Final Plat                Type I            §
                                                  152.009
Property Line Adjustments,      Type I            §
Including Lot Consolidations                      152.012
                                                  §§
Site Design Review              Type I, II or III 151.250 -
                                                  151.256 Site Design Review
Subdivision or Replat of 4 or                      
more lots                                        §
   Preliminary Plat          Type III          152.004
   Final Plat                Type II           §
                                                  152.009
                                                  §§
Vpariance                       Type III          151.320 -
                                                  151.324 Adjustments and
                                                  Variances
Zoning Checklist                Type I            §
                                                  151.231 Type I Procedure
*The applicant may be required to obtain building permits and other approvals
from other agencies, such as a road authority or natural resource regulatory
agency. The city's failure to notify the applicant of any requirement or
procedure of another agency shall not invalidate a permit or other decision
made by the city under this Code.
 
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.231 TYPE I PROCEDURE (STAFF REVIEW AND ZONING CHECKLIST).
   (A)   Type I procedure (staff review). The City Planning Official, or
designee, without public notice and without a public hearing, makes ministerial
decisions through the Type I procedure. Ministerial decisions are those where
city standards and criteria do not require the exercise of discretion (i.e.,
there are clear and objective standards).
   (B)   Zoning checklist. The City Planning Official reviews proposals
requiring a Type I review using a zoning checklist. The zoning checklist is a
preliminary review that is intended to ensure a project proposal meets the
basic requirements of the applicable zone before more detailed plans are
prepared and before the city authorizes the Building Official to issue a
building permit.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Approvals requiring Type I review, including
zoning checklists, shall be made on forms provided by the city.
      (2)   Application requirements. When a zoning checklist is required, it
shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Address the criteria in sufficient detail for review and action;
and
         (c)   Be filed with the required fee.
   (D)   Approval required. The city shall not act upon an application for land
use approval, and a building permit shall not be issued, until the City
Planning Official has approved a zoning checklist for the proposed project.
   (E)   Criteria and decision. The City Planning Official's review of a zoning
checklist is intended to determine whether minimum code requirements are met
and whether any other land use permit or approval is required prior to issuance
of a building permit.
   (F)   Effective date. A zoning checklist decision is final on the date it is
signed by the City Planning Official. It is not a land use decision as defined
by O.R.S. 197.015, and therefore is not subject to appeal to the state Land Use
Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.232 TYPE II PROCEDURE (ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW WITH NOTICE).
   The City Planning Official, or their designee, performs administrative staff
reviews through the Type II procedure. Type II decisions are made by the City
Planning Official with public notice and an opportunity for appeal to the
Planning Commission. Alternatively, the City Planning Official may refer a Type
II application to the Planning Commission for its review and decision in a
public meeting.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Applications for projects requiring an
administrative land use decision shall be made on forms provided by the City
Planning Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The City Planning Official shall advise the
applicant on what constitutes a complete application. At a minimum, the
application shall include all of the following:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Plans and exhibits required for the specific approval(s) being
sought for example, requirements for property line adjustments are in §§
151.270 through
151.273;
         (c)   A written statement or letter explaining how the application
satisfies each and all of the relevant code criteria and standards in
sufficient detail;
         (d)   Information demonstrating compliance with prior decision(s) and
conditions of approval for the subject site, as applicable; and
         (e)   The required fee.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The City Planning Official shall mail notice of a pending Type II
decision to the individuals and agencies identified in (B)(2) below no fewer
than 14 days prior to making the Type II decision .
      (2)   The purpose of the Pending Type II notice is to give nearby
property owners and other interested people and agencies the opportunity to
submit written comments on the application before the Planning Official issues
the decision. The intent is to invite people to participate early in the
decision-making process. Notices shall be mailed to:
         (a)   All owners, residents or tenants of record of real property
within a minimum of 300 feet of the subject site;
         (b)   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice;
and
         (c)   Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city and any other affected
agencies. At a minimum, the City Planning Official shall notify the road
authority if different than the City of Banks. The failure of another agency to
respond with written comments on a pending application shall not invalidate an
action or permit approval made by the city under this Code.
         (d)   The city shall notify the Oregon Department of Transportation of
projects involving a change access to a state highway.
      (3)   The notice of pending administrative decision, at a minimum, shall
contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The deadline for submitting written comments, which must be at
least 14 days prior to the scheduled decision date or, as applicable, the
scheduled Planning Commission meeting date where an application is referred to
the Commission for review;
         (b)   A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria.
The notice must have sufficient detail to help the public identify and locate
applicable code requirements;
         (c)   The address and city contact person for submitting written
comments; and the date, time, and location the City Planning Official or
Planning Commission, as applicable, is scheduled to make a decision on the
application;
         (d)   The street address or other easily understandable reference to
the location of the proposed use or development;
         (e)   Disclosure statement indicating that if any person fails to
address the relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be able
to appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals or Circuit Court on that issue, and
that only comments on the relevant approval criteria are considered relevant
evidence;
         (f)   Statement that all evidence relied upon by the City Planning
Official or Planning Commission, as applicable, to make its decision is in the
public record, available for public review. Copies of this evidence can be
obtained at a reasonable cost from the city; and
         (g)   Statement that after the comment period closes, the city will
issue its decision and the decision shall be mailed to the applicant and to
anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise legally entitled
to notice.
      (4)   The failure of another agency to respond with written comments on a
pending application shall not invalidate an action or permit approval made by
the city under this Code.
      (5)   At the conclusion of the comment period, the City Planning Official
shall review the comments received and prepare a decision notice approving,
approving with conditions, or denying the application based on the applicable
Code criteria. Alternatively, the City Planning Official may transmit all
written comments received, if any, along with a copy of the application to the
Planning Commission for review and decision at its next regularly scheduled
meeting.
      (6)   Where the City Planning Official refers an application subject to
administrative review to the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application through the Type II
procedure based on the applicable Code criteria. The Planning Commission may
continue its review to the next meeting to allow the applicant time to respond
to questions, provided that the Commission makes a final decision within the
120-day period prescribed under state law (O.R.S. 227.178) and as described in
§
151.235. Alternatively, the applicant may voluntarily waive his or her right to
a final decision within the 120-day timeframe and the Commission may decide to
accept oral and written testimony in a public hearing review of the
application, pursuant to §
151.233; in which case, a new public notice must be mailed to those who
received the original notice indicating the change to a quasi-judicial (public
hearing) review procedure.
      (7)   Within 7 days of a Type II (administrative) decision, the City
Planning Official shall proceed to prepare a notice of decision and mail it to
the applicant, property owner (if different), the Building Official, those who
provided written comments on the proposal, and those who requested a copy of
the decision. The City Planning Official shall cause an affidavit of mailing
the notice to be prepared and made a part of the file. The affidavit shall show
the date the notice was mailed and shall demonstrate that the notice was mailed
to the parties above and was mailed within the time required by law.
      (8)   The administrative notice of decision shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   A description of the applicant's proposal and the city's
decision on the proposal, which may be a summary, provided it references the
specifics of the proposal and conditions of approval in the public record;
         (b)   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area (a copy of assessor's map may be used);
         (c)   A statement of where the city's decision can be obtained;
         (d)   The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed; and
         (e)   A statement that all persons entitled to notice may appeal the
decision to the Planning Commission or City Council, as applicable, pursuant to
§
151.232(C).
      (9)   Effective date of decision. Unless the conditions of approval
specify otherwise, an administrative decision becomes effective 12 days after
the city mails the decision notice, unless the decision is appealed pursuant to
§
151.232(C).
   (C)   Appeal of Type II (administrative) decision. A Type II administrative
decision made by the City Planning Official may be appealed to the Planning
Commission; and a Type II administrative decision made by the Planning
Commission may be appealed to the City Council, as applicable, pursuant to the
following:
      (1)   Who may appeal. The following people have legal standing to appeal
a Type II administrative decision:
         (a)   The applicant or owner of the subject property;
         (b)   Any person who was entitled to written notice of the Type II
decision; and
         (c)   Any other person who participated in the proceeding by
submitting written comments on the application to the city by the specified
deadline.
      (2)   Appeal filing procedure.
         (a)   Notice of appeal. Any person with standing to appeal, as
provided in division (C)(1), above, may appeal a Type II administrative
decision by filing a notice of appeal according to the following procedures.
         (b)   Time for filing. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the City
Planning Official within the timeframe specified on the notice of decision;
typically, this will be within 10 days of the date the notice of decision is
mailed.
         (c)   Content of notice of appeal the notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee and shall contain:
            1.   An identification of the decision being appealed, including
the date of the decision;
            2.   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal;
            3.   A statement explaining the specific issues being raised on
appeal; and
            4.   If the appellant is not the applicant, a statement
demonstrating that the appeal issues were raised during the comment period.
      (3)   Scope of appeal. The appeal of a Type II administrative decision
shall be a hearing de novo, either before the Planning Commission, where the
contested decision was made by the City Planning Official, or before the City
Council, where the Planning Commission made the contested decision. The appeal
shall not be limited to the application materials, evidence and other
documentation, and specific issues raised in the review leading up to the
administrative decision, but may include other relevant evidence and arguments.
The hearing appeal body may allow additional evidence, testimony, or argument
concerning any relevant standard, criterion, condition, or issue.
      (4)   Appeal hearing procedure. Hearings on appeals of Type II decisions
shall follow the same procedure used for public hearings on Type III reviews
under §
151.233. Section
151.233 contains requirements for public hearing notices, conduct of hearings,
and decision-making procedures.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.233 TYPE III PROCEDURE (QUASI- JUDICIAL REVIEW; PUBLIC HEARING).
   Type III decisions are made by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing, with an opportunity for appeal to the City Council.
   (A)   Application forms.
      (1)   Application forms. Applications shall be made on forms provided by
the City Planning Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The City Planning Official shall advise the
applicant on what constitutes a complete application. At a minimum, the
application shall include all of the following information:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   Plans and exhibits required for the specific approval(s) being
sought;
         (c)   A written statement or letter explaining how the application
satisfies each and all of the relevant code criteria and standards in
sufficient detail;
         (d)   Information demonstrating compliance with prior decision(s) and
conditions of approval for the subject site, as applicable;
         (e)   Other information, studies, exhibits, or data as the Planning
Official deems necessary to demonstrate compliance with city policies and
ordinances; and
         (f)   The required fee; and
         (g)   Evidence of neighborhood contact, as applicable, pursuant to §
151.236.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Mailed and posted notice. The city shall mail public notice of a
public hearing on a Type III application at least 20 days before the hearing
date to individuals and organizations listed below. The City Planning Official
shall prepare an affidavit of notice, which shall be made a part of the file.
The affidavit shall state the date that the notice was mailed. Notice shall be
mailed to:
         (a)   All owners, residents, or tenants of record of real property
within a minimum of 300 feet of the subject site;
         (b)   Any person who submits a written request to receive a notice;
and
         (c)   Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the city and any other affected
agencies. At a minimum, the City Planning Official shall notify the road
authority if different than the City of Banks. The failure of another agency to
respond with written comments on a pending application shall not invalidate an
action or permit approval made by the city under this Code.
         (d)   The city shall notify the Oregon Department of Transportation of
projects involving a change access to a state highway.
         (e)   At least 14 days before the first hearing, the applicant or
applicant's representative shall post notice of the hearing on the project site
in clear view from a public right-of-way using a poster format prescribed by
the City Planning Official. The applicant shall submit an affidavit of notice
using a form provided by the city, which shall be made a part of the file. The
affidavit shall state the date that the notice was posted.
      (2)   Content of notice. Notice of a Type III hearing to be mailed per
division (B)(1) above shall contain all of the following information:
         (a)   A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria.
The notice must have sufficient detail to help the public identify and locate
applicable code requirements;
         (b)   The date, time and location of the Planning Commission hearing;
         (c)   Describe the street address or other clear reference to the
location of the proposed use or development;
         (d)   A disclosure statement that if any person fails to address the
relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be able to appeal
to the City Council, Land Use Board of Appeals, or Circuit Court, as
applicable, on that issue; and that only comments on the relevant approval
criteria are considered relevant evidence;
         (e)   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or for the applicant, and the applicable criteria and
standards shall be available for review at (City Hall/the office of the City
Planning Official) and that copies shall be provided at a reasonable cost;
         (f)   A statement that a copy of the city's staff report and
recommendation to the Planning Commission shall be available for review at no
cost at least 7 days before the hearing, and that a copy shall be provided on
request at a reasonable cost;
         (g)   A general explanation of the requirements to submit testimony,
and the procedure for conducting public hearings; and
         (h)   A statement that after the public hearing closes, the city will
issue its decision, and the decision shall be mailed to the applicant and to
anyone else who submitted written comments or who is otherwise legally entitled
to notice.
   (C)   Conduct of the public hearing.
      (1)   At the commencement of the hearing, the Planning Commission
Chairperson, or their designee, shall state to those in attendance all of the
following information and instructions:
         (a)   The applicable approval criteria by Code chapter that apply to
the application;
         (b)   Testimony and evidence shall concern the approval criteria
described in the staff report, or other criteria in the comprehensive plan or
land use regulations that the person testifying believes to apply to the
decision;
         (c)   Failure to raise an issue with sufficient detail to give the
Planning Commission and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue, may
preclude appeal to the City Council or State Land Use Board of Appeals on that
issue;
         (d)   At the conclusion of the initial evidentiary hearing, the
Planning Commission shall deliberate and make a decision based on the facts,
applicable approval criteria, and arguments in the public record. See division
(F), record of the public hearing;
         (e)   Any participant may ask the Planning Commission for an
opportunity to present additional relevant evidence or testimony that is within
the scope of the hearing; if the Planning Commission grants the request, it
will schedule a date to continue the hearing as provided in division (C)(5) of
this section, or leave the record open for additional written evidence or
testimony as provided in division (C)(6) of this section.
      (2)   The public is entitled to an impartial review body as free from
potential conflicts of interest and pre-hearing ex parte (outside the hearing)
contacts as reasonably possible. Where questions related to ex parte contact
are concerned, Planning Commissioners shall follow the guidance for disclosure
of ex parte contacts contained in O.R.S. 227.180. Where a Planning Commissioner
has an actual conflict of interest, the Commissioner shall disclose such
interest and recuse themselves from decision making, except where state law
provides otherwise. Where the appearance of a conflict of interest is likely,
the Planning Commissioner(s) shall individually disclose their relationship to
the applicant in the public hearing and state whether they are capable of
rendering a fair and impartial decision. If they are unable to render a fair
and impartial decision, they shall be excused from the proceedings.
      (3)   Presenting and receiving evidence.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may set reasonable time limits for oral
presentations and may limit or exclude cumulative, repetitious, irrelevant or
personally derogatory testimony or evidence;
         (b)   No oral testimony shall be accepted after the close of the
public hearing. Written testimony may be received after the close of the public
hearing only as provided by this section;
         (c)   Members of the Planning Commission may visit the property and
the surrounding area, and may use information obtained during the site visit to
support their decision, if the information relied upon is disclosed at the
beginning of the hearing and an opportunity is provided to dispute the
evidence.
      (4)   The Planning Commission, in making its decision, shall consider
only arguments in the public hearing record; except that the Commission may
take notice of facts not in the hearing record (e.g., local, state, or federal
regulations; previous city decisions; case law; staff reports). Upon announcing
its intention to take notice of such facts in its deliberations, it must allow
persons who previously participated in the hearing to request the hearing
record be reopened, as necessary, to present evidence concerning the newly
presented facts.
      (5)   If the Planning Commission decides to continue the hearing, the
hearing shall be continued to a date that is at least 7 days after the date of
the first evidentiary hearing (e.g., next regularly scheduled meeting). An
opportunity shall be provided at the continued hearing for persons to present
and respond to new written evidence and oral testimony. If new written evidence
is submitted at the continued hearing, any person may request, before the
conclusion of the hearing, that the record be left open for at least 7 days, so
that they can submit additional written evidence or arguments in response to
the new written evidence. In the interest of time, after the close of the
hearing, the Planning Commission may limit additional testimony to arguments
and not accept additional evidence.
      (6)   If the Planning Commission leaves the record open for additional
written testimony, the record shall be left open for at least 7 days after the
hearing. Any participant may ask the Planning Commission in writing for an
opportunity to respond to new evidence (i.e., information not disclosed during
the public hearing) submitted when the record was left open. If such a request
is filed, the Planning Commission shall reopen the record, as follows:
         (a)   When the record is reopened to admit new evidence or arguments
(testimony), any person may raise new issues that relate to that new evidence
or testimony;
         (b)   An extension of the hearing or record granted pursuant to this
section is subject to the limitations of §
151.235 and O.R.S. 227.178 ("120-day rule"), unless the applicant waives their
right to a final decision being made within 120 days of filing a complete
application; and
         (c)   If requested by the applicant, the Planning Commission shall
grant the applicant at least 7 days after the record is closed to all other
persons to submit final written arguments, but not evidence, unless the
applicant expressly waives this right.
   (D)   Notice of decision.
      (1)   The notice of Type III decision shall contain all of the following
information:
         (a)   A description of the applicant's proposal and the city's
decision on the proposal, which may be a summary, provided it references the
specifics of the proposal and conditions of approval in the public record;
         (b)   The address or other geographic description of the property
proposed for development, including a map of the property in relation to the
surrounding area (a copy of assessor's map may be used);
         (c)   A statement of where the city's decision can be obtained;
         (d)   The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed; and
         (e)   A statement that all persons entitled to notice may appeal the
Planning Commission's decision to City Council pursuant to §
151.233(C) or may appeal the City Council's decision to the state Land Use
Board of Appeals, as applicable.
   (E)   Appeal of Planning Commission decision. The Planning Commission's
decision may be appealed to the City Council as follows:
      (1)   Who may appeal. The following people have legal standing to appeal:
         (a)   The applicant or owner of the subject property; and
         (b)   Any other person who testified orally or in writing during the
subject public hearing before the close of the public record.
      (2)   Appeal filing procedure.
         (a)   Notice of appeal. Any person with standing to appeal, as
provided in division (E)(1), above, may appeal a Type III quasi-judicial
decision by filing a notice of appeal according to the following procedures.
         (b)   Time for filing. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the City
Planning Official within the timeframe specified on the notice of decision;
typically, this will be within 10 days of the date the notice of decision is
mailed.
         (c)   Content of notice of appeal. The notice of appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee and shall contain:
            1.   An identification of the decision being appealed, including
the date of the decision;
            2.   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal;
            3.   A statement explaining the specific issues being raised on
appeal; and
            4.   If the appellant is not the applicant, a statement
demonstrating that the appeal issues were raised during the comment period.
      (3)   Scope of appeal. The appeal of a Type III quasi-judicial decision
shall be a hearing de novo before the City Council. The appeal shall not be
limited to the application materials, evidence and other documentation, and
specific issues raised in the review leading up to the quasi-judicial decision,
but may include other relevant evidence and arguments. The hearing appeal body
may allow additional evidence, testimony, or argument concerning any applicable
standard, criterion, condition, or issue.
   (F)   Record of the public hearing.
      (1)   The official public record shall include all of the following
information:
         (a)   All materials considered by the hearings body;
         (b)   All materials submitted by the City Planning Official to the
hearings body regarding the application;
         (c)   The minutes of the hearing;
         (d)   The final written decision; and
         (e)   Copies of all notices given as required by this chapter, and
correspondence regarding the application which the city mailed or received.
      (2)   The meeting minutes shall be filed in hardcopy form with the City
Recorder. The minutes and other evidence presented as a part of the hearing
shall be part of the record.
      (3)   All exhibits received and displayed shall be marked to provide
identification and shall be part of the record.
   (G)   Final date and appeals to State Land Use Board of Appeals. A quasi-
judicial decision or appeal decision, as applicable, is effective the date the
city mails the decision. The Planning Commission's decision may be appealed to
the City Council. Appeals of City Council decisions under this chapter shall be
filed with the state Land Use Board of Appeals pursuant to O.R.S. 197.805
through 197.860.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.234 TYPE IV (LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS).
   (A)   Timing of requests. The City Council may establish a schedule for when
it will accept legislative code amendment or plan amendment requests, or the
City Council may initiate its own legislative proposals at any time, including
zone changes required when property is annexed to the City of Banks.
Legislative requests are not subject to the 120-day review period under O.R.S.
227.178.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Legislative applications shall be made on forms
provided by the City Planning Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The application shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   A map and/or plan addressing the appropriate criteria and
standards in sufficient detail for review and decision (as applicable);
         (c)   The required fee, except when the City of Banks initiates the
request; and
         (d)   One copy of a letter or narrative statement that explains how
the application satisfies each and all of the relevant approval criteria and
standards; and
         (e)   Evidence of neighborhood contact, pursuant to §
151.236.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings on legislative land use requests are conducted similar to
City Council hearings on other legislative proposals, except the notification
procedure for legislative land use requests must conform to state land use laws
(O.R.S. 227.175), as follows:
      (2)   The city shall notify in writing the Oregon Department of Land
Conservation and Development (DLCD) of legislative amendments (zone change,
rezoning with annexation, or comprehensive plan amendment) at least 35 days
before the first public hearing at which public testimony or new evidence will
be received. The notice shall include a DLCD Certificate of Mailing.
      (3)   At least 20 days, but not more than 40 days, before the date of the
first hearing on an ordinance that proposes to amend the comprehensive plan or
any element thereof, or to adopt an ordinance for any zone change, a notice
shall be prepared in conformance with O.R.S. 227.175 and mailed to:
         (a)   Each owner, resident or tenant whose property would be directly
affected by the proposal, e.g., rezoning or a change from one Comprehensive
Plan land use designation to another, see O.R.S. 227.186 for instructions;
         (b)   Any affected governmental agency;
         (c)   Any person who requests notice in writing; and
         (d)   For a zone change affecting a manufactured home or mobile home
park, all mailing addresses within the park, in accordance with O.R.S. 227.175.
      (4)   At least 10 days before the scheduled City Council public hearing
date, public notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city.
      (5)   For each mailing and publication of notice, the City Recorder shall
keep an affidavit of mailing/publication in the record.
   (D)   Final decision and effective date. A legislative land use decision, if
approved, shall take effect and shall become final as specified in the enacting
ordinance or, if not approved, upon mailing of the notice of decision to the
applicant. Notice of a legislative land use decision shall be mailed to the
applicant, all participants of record, and the Department of Land Conservation
and Development within 20 business days after the City Council decision is
filed with the City Recorder. The city shall also provide notice to all persons
as required by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.235 TIME LIMIT, CONSOLIDATED REVIEW AND CITY PLANNING OFFICIAL'S DUTIES.
   (A)   Time limit - 120-day rule. The city shall take final action on
administrative and quasi-judicial land use applications, pursuant to this
chapter, including resolution of all appeals, within 120 days from the date the
City Planning Official deems the application complete for purposes of
processing, unless the applicant requests an extension in writing. Any
exceptions to this rule shall conform to the provisions of O.R.S. 227.178.
(Note: The 120-day rule does not apply to legislative land use decisions.).
   (B)   Time periods. In computing time periods prescribed or allowed by this
chapter, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of time
begins shall not be included. The last day of the period shall be included,
unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which case the period
runs until the end of the next day that is not on a weekend or legal holiday.
   (C)   Consolidated review of applications. When an applicant applies for
more than 1 type of land use or development permit for the same 1 or more
contiguous parcels of land, the city may consolidate the applications and
review them concurrently. When proceedings are consolidated, required notices
may be consolidated, provided the notice shall identify each application to be
decided. When more than 1 application is reviewed in a hearing, separate
findings and decisions shall be made on each application.
   (D)   City Planning Official duties. The City Planning Official, or their
designee, shall perform all of following duties with regard to administration
of this Code:
      (1)   Prepare application forms based on in the provisions of this Code
and applicable state law;
      (2)   Prepare required notices, and process applications for review and
action;
      (3)   Assist the Planning Commission and City Council in administering
the land use hearings process;
      (4)   Answer questions from the public regarding the city's land use
regulations;
      (5)   Prepare staff reports summarizing pending applications, including
applicable decision criteria;
      (6)   Prepare findings consistent with city decisions on land use and
development applications;
      (7)   Prepare notices affinal decisions, and submit notices with the City
Recorder who shall mail a copy of the notices to all parties entitled to notice
under this Code; and
      (8)   Assist the City Recorder in maintaining files and public record for
land use applications.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.236 NEIGHBORHOOD CONTACT.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. Applicants for master planned development,
subdivision, or site design review on projects involving parcels or lots larger
than one acre, and property owner-applicants for zone changes, are required to
contact neighboring property owners, residents and tenants and offer to hold a
meeting with them prior to submitting an application. This is to ensure that
affected property owners are given an opportunity to preview a proposal and
offer input to the applicant before a plan is formally submitted to the city,
thereby raising any concerns about the project and the project's compatibility
with surrounding uses early in the design process when changes can be made
relatively inexpensively.
   (B)   Notice. Notice of the meeting must be given in writing and delivered
in person, or by certified mail, to all of the property owners, residents and
tenants whose property is located within 300 feet of the site, at their
addresses of record at the Washington County Assessor's office, at least 14
days before the meeting and at least 21 days before submitting the application
to the city. The notice must state the time, place, and purpose of the meeting,
including a description of the proposed development.
   (C)   Meeting place, date, and time. The meeting must be held within the
city limits at a location obtained or provided by the applicant with sufficient
room for the expected attendance. The meeting place must be accessible to
persons with disabilities. It must be scheduled at a date and time reasonably
calculated to allow maximum participation by interested property owners,
typically weekdays after 6:00pm or on weekends.
   (D)   Conduct of meeting. At the meeting, the applicant, or the applicant's
agent/representative, must present sufficient information about the proposed
development to inform the property owners in attendance of the nature of the
proposal and impacts it may have on neighboring properties, including
transportation impacts. Persons attending must be allowed to ask questions and
make comments. The applicant, or the applicant's agent/representative, must
make a sound or video recording or keep written minutes of the meeting that
give a true reflection of the matters discussed at the meeting and the views of
the participants. The applicant must also make a list of names of persons
attending the meeting.
   (E)   Filing requirements. Proof of having held the meeting, even if no
affected property owners attend, is required and must be submitted to the city
with a land use application for the application to be deemed complete. Copies
of the following information must accompany the land use application: a copy of
the notice mailed, certified mail receipts, all addresses for which notice was
mailed (e.g., copy of mailing labels), a certificate of personal service for
those persons who were provided notice by personal service (including the date
of service and the name of the person who provided service), a record or
minutes of the meeting with a list of attendees, and copies of the meeting
notice and all other written materials provided prior to or distributed at the
meeting.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.237 FILING FEES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish by resolution, and may from time to
time by resolution amend, a uniform schedule of fees to be paid at the time of
filing any application requiring approval or action by the Planning Director,
Planning Commission, or City Council under the provisions of the Zoning Code.
In like manner, the City Council shall establish the fees to be paid for filing
notice of appeal under the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The fees shall be for the purpose of helping to defray the costs of
giving notice of hearing where required, and the expenses to the city in
processing and investigating the applications and appeals. Copies of the fee
schedule shall be kept at City Hall and shall be available for public
inspection.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.238 TIME LIMIT ON LAND USE APPROVALS.
   (A)   Land use approvals, with the exception affinal plat applications,
zoning map or code amendments, and planned unit developments, which do not
expire or in the case of preliminary plat expire after 4 years, shall become
void if within 2 years of the date of the final decision a building permit has
not been issued and/or no substantial construction has taken place. The City
Council may extend the validity of the approval for an additional period not to
exceed 1 year on request.
   (B)   If a decision is appealed beyond the jurisdiction of the city, the 1-
year expiration period will not begin until the appeal is terminated.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
SITE DESIGN REVIEW
§ 151.250 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to advance all the following objectives in
the public interest:
   (A)   Carry out the development pattern and plan of the city and its
comprehensive plan policies through efficient and effective review of site
development proposals;
   (B)   Provide a discretionary review path for projects that need or prefer
more flexibility than is allowed by the clear and objective standards;
   (C)   Promote the public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (D)   Provide for adequate multimodal transportation, water supply, sewage,
fire protection, pollution control, surface water management, and protection
against natural hazards; and
   (E)   Encourage efficient use of land resources and public services, and the
provision of transportation options.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.251 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Site design review approval is required for new development and
redevelopment that meets the thresholds of §
151.252 below. Site design review approval is also required to expand a
nonconforming use or development per §
151.355.
   (B)   Exceptions. Except as specified by a condition of approval of a prior
city decision, or as required for uses subject to conditional use permit
approval, site design review is not required for the following:
      (1)   Change in occupancy from one type of land use to a different land
use resulting in no increase in vehicular traffic or development;
      (2)   Single-family detached dwelling (including manufactured home) on
its own lot, except as required for properties within the Historic Resource
Overlay Zone;
      (3)   A single duplex;
      (4)   Nonresidential building addition of up to 500 square feet or 20%,
whichever is greater;
      (5)   Home occupation, except for those requiring a conditional use
permit per §
151.077;
      (6)   Development and land uses that are already approved as part of a
site design review or conditional use permit application;
      (7)   Public improvements required by city standards or as stipulated by
a condition of land use approval (e.g., transportation facilities and
improvements, parks, trails, utilities, and similar improvements), as
determined by the City Planning Official, except where a condition of approval
requires site design review; and
      (8)   Regular maintenance, repair, and replacement of materials (e.g.,
roof, siding, awnings, etc.), parking resurfacing, and similar maintenance and
repair.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.252 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Site design review shall be conducted using the Type II procedure in §
151.232, except those proposals that exceed any one of the thresholds in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Proposals exceeding any one of the thresholds below shall be reviewed
using the Type III procedure in §
151.233:
      (1)   The proposed use's estimated vehicle trip generation exceeds 100
average daily trips, based on the latest edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Manual;
      (2)   The use exceeds 20,000 square feet of gross leasable floor area; or
the project involves more than one-acre total site area;
      (3)   For commercial development, the project does not meet one or more
of the applicable clear and objective building design standards in §§
151.110 and
151.111.
      (4)   For residential development, the project does not meet one or more
of the applicable clear and objective building design standards in §§
151.125 through
151.127;
      (5)   The proposal involves a conditional use (new or expanded);
      (6)   The proposal involves a variance under §
151.323.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.253 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following information is required for site design review
application submittal, except where the City Planning Official determines that
some information is not pertinent and therefore is not required.
   (A)   General submission requirements.
      (1)   Information required for Type II or Type III review, as applicable
(see §§
151.230 through
151.238).
      (2)   Public facilities and services impact study. The impact study shall
quantify and assess the effect of the development on public facilities and
services. The city shall advise as to the scope of the study. The study shall
address, at a minimum, the transportation system, including required
improvements for vehicles and pedestrians; the drainage system; the parks
system; water system; and sewer system. For each system and type of impact, the
study shall propose improvements necessary to meet city requirements. The city
may require a traffic impact analysis pursuant to §
151.216.
   (B)   Site design review information. In addition to the general submission
requirements per §§
151.230 through
151.238, an applicant for site design review shall provide the following
information, as deemed applicable by the City Planning Official. The City
Planning Official may request any information they need to review the proposal
and prepare a complete staff report and recommendation to the approval body.
      (1)   Site analysis/existing conditions map. The site analysis map shall
contain all the following information, as the City Planning Official deems
applicable:
         (a)   The applicant's entire property and the properties within 100
feet, and the relationship between the proposed development site and adjacent
property and development. The property boundaries, dimensions, and gross area
shall be identified;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines at 2-foot intervals for slopes, except
where the Public Works Director determines that larger intervals will be
adequate for steeper slopes;
         (c)   Identification of slopes greater than 15%, with slope categories
identified in 5% increments (e.g., 0%-5%, >5%-10%, >10%-15%, >15%-20%, and so
forth);
         (d)   The location and width of all public and private streets,
drives, sidewalks, pathways, rights-of-way, and easements on the site and
adjoining the site;
         (e)   Potential natural hazard areas, including, as applicable, the
base flood elevation identified on FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps or as
otherwise determined through site specific survey, areas subject to high water
table, and areas designated by the city, county, or state as having a potential
for geologic hazards;
         (f)   Areas subject to overlay zones;
         (g)   Site features, including existing structures, pavement, large
rock outcroppings, areas having unique views, and drainage ways, canals, and
ditches;
         (h)   The location, size, and species of trees and other vegetation
(outside proposed building envelope) having a caliper (diameter) of 6 inches
greater at 4 feet above grade (DBH);
         (i)   North arrow, scale, and the names and addresses of all persons
listed as owners of the subject property on the most recently recorded deed;
and
         (j)   Name and address of project designer, engineer, surveyor, and/or
planner, if applicable.
      (2)   Proposed site plan. The site plan shall contain all the following
information:
         (a)   The proposed development site, including boundaries, dimensions,
and gross area;
         (b)   Features identified on the site analysis map that are proposed
to remain on the site;
         (c)   Features identified on the site analysis map, if any, which are
proposed to be removed or modified by the development;
         (d)   The location and dimensions of all proposed public and private
streets, drives, rights-of-way, and easements;
         (e)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, utilities, pavement, and other improvements on the site. Setback
dimensions for all existing and proposed buildings shall be provided on the
site plan;
         (f)   The location and dimensions of entrances and exits to the site
for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle access;
         (g)   The location and dimensions of all parking and vehicle
circulation areas (show striping for parking stalls and wheel stops);
         (h)   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation areas, including sidewalks,
internal pathways, pathway connections to adjacent properties, and any bicycle
lanes or trails;
         (i)   Loading and service areas for waste disposal, loading, and
delivery;
         (j)   Outdoor recreation spaces, common areas, plazas, outdoor
seating, street furniture, and similar improvements;
         (k)   Location, type, and height of outdoor lighting;
         (l)   Location of mailboxes, if known;
         (m)   Name and address of project designer, if applicable;
         (n)   Locations of bus stops and other public or private
transportation facilities; and
         (o)   Locations, sizes, and types of signs.
      (3)   Architectural drawings. Architectural drawings shall include, as
applicable:
         (a)   Building elevations with dimensions;
         (b)   Building materials, colors, and type; and
         (c)   Name and contact information of the architect or designer.
      (4)   Preliminary grading plan. A preliminary grading plan prepared by a
registered engineer shall be required for development sites one-half acre or
larger, or where otherwise required by the city. The preliminary grading plan
shall show the location and extent to which grading will take place, indicating
general changes to contour lines, slope ratios, slope stabilization proposals,
and location and height of retaining walls, if proposed. Surface water
detention and treatment plans may also be required.
      (5)   Landscape plan. Where a landscape plan is required, it shall show
the following, pursuant to §§
151.155 through
151.157:
         (a)   The location and height of existing and proposed fences,
buffering, or screening materials;
         (b)   The location of existing and proposed terraces, retaining walls,
decks, patios, shelters, and play areas;
         (c)   The location, size, and species of the existing and proposed
plant materials (at time of planting);
         (d)   Existing and proposed building and pavement outlines;
         (e)   Specifications for soil at time of planting, irrigation if
plantings are not drought tolerant (may be automatic or other approved method
of irrigation), and anticipated planting schedule; and
         (f)   An arborist's report may be required for sites with trees of 6
inches DBH or greater that are to be retained and protected.
      (6)   Deed restrictions. Copies of all existing and proposed restrictions
or covenants, including those for roadway access control.
      (7)   Narrative. Letter or narrative report documenting compliance with
the applicable approval criteria contained in §
151.255.
      (8)   Traffic impact analysis, when required by §
151.216.
      (9)   Other information determined by the City Planning Official. The
city may require studies or exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to
address specific site features or project impacts (e.g., traffic, noise,
environmental features, natural hazards, etc.), as necessary to determine a
proposal's conformance with this Code.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.254 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   An application for site design review shall be approved if the
proposal meets all the following criteria. The city decision-making body, in
approving the application, may impose reasonable conditions of approval,
consistent with the applicable criteria.
      (1)   The application complies with all of the applicable provisions of
the underlying land use zone, including, but not limited to, building and yard
setbacks, lot area and dimensions, density and floor area, lot coverage,
building height, building orientation, and other applicable standards;
      (2)   The proposal includes required upgrades, if any, to existing
development that does not comply with the applicable land use zone standards,
pursuant to §
151.355 Nonconforming Situations;
      (3)   The proposal complies with all of the community design standards of
this chapter as applicable.
      (4)   For Type III reviews of commercial and residential developments
that do not meet clear and objective building design standard in §§
151.110 and
151.111 or §§
151.125 through
151.127, the proposal must demonstrate how it meets the stated guideline(s) for
those standard(s) not being met.
      (5)   The proposal complies with any applicable regulations of:
         (a)   Sections
151.075 through
151.085 Special Use Standards
         (b)   Sections
151.270 through
151.273 Conditional Use Permits.
         (c)   Section
151.355 Nonconforming Situations.
      (6)   For nonresidential uses, all adverse impacts to adjacent
properties, such as light, glare, noise, odor, vibration, smoke, dust, or
visual impact, are avoided; or where impacts cannot be avoided, they are
minimized; and
      (7)   The proposal meets all existing conditions of approval for the site
or use, as required by prior land use decision(s), as applicable.
   (B)   Note. Compliance with other city codes and requirements, though not
applicable land use criteria, may be required prior to issuance of building
permits.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.255 ASSURANCES.
   Public improvement required as part of a site design review approval shall
be subject to the performance guarantee and warranty bond provisions of §
151.218, as applicable.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.256 COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS, PERMIT EXPIRATION AND MODIFICATIONS.
   Development shall not commence until the applicant has received all
applicable land use and development approvals. Construction of public
improvements shall not commence until the city has approved all required public
improvement plans (e.g., utilities, streets, public land dedication, etc.). The
city may require bonding or other assurances for improvements per §
151.218. Site design review approvals are subject to all of the following
standards and limitations:
   (A)   Approval period. Site Design Review approvals shall be effective for a
period of 1 year from the date of approval. The approval shall lapse if:
      (1)   A public improvement plan or building permit application for the
project has not been submitted within 1 year of approval; or
      (2)   Construction on the site is in violation of the approved plan.
   (B)   Extension. The City Planning Official, upon written request by the
applicant, may grant a written extension of the approval period not to exceed 1
year; provided that:
      (1)   No changes are made on the original approved plan;
      (2)   The applicant can show intent of initiating construction on the
site within the 1-year extension period;
      (3)   There have been no changes to the applicable Code provisions on
which the approval was based. If there have been changes to the applicable Code
provisions and the subject plan does not comply with those changes, then the
extension shall not be granted; in this case, a new site design review shall be
required; and
      (4)   The applicant demonstrates that failure to obtain building permits
and substantially begin construction within 1 year of site design approval was
beyond the applicant's control.
   (C)   Modifications to approved plans and developments. Modifications to
approved plans are subject to city review and approval under §§
151.285 through
151.288.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 151.270 PURPOSE.
   There are certain uses which, due to the nature of their impacts on
surrounding land uses and public facilities, require a case-by-case review and
analysis. Conditional uses are identified in §§
151.035 through
151.038 and §§
151.050 through
151.054. The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures and standards for
permitting conditional uses.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.271 APPROVALS PROCESS.
   The Planning Commission using a Type III procedure, per §
151.233, reviews conditional use applications. Modifications to conditional use
permits are subject to §§
151.285 through
151.288 Modifications to Approved Plans and Conditions.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.272 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the submission requirements for a Type III review under §
151.233, applications for conditional use permits shall include a description
of existing conditions, a site plan, and information on any existing and any
proposed restrictions or covenants. (For a more detailed description of each
item, please refer to §
151.253 Site Design Review Application Submission Requirements). An application
for a conditional use permit shall also contain a narrative report or letter
responding to the applicable approval criteria in §
151.273.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.273 CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny an
application for a conditional use, including requests to enlarge or alter a
conditional use, based on findings of fact with respect to all of the criteria
and standards in divisions (A) and (B), below.
   (A)   Use criteria.
      (1)   The site size, dimensions, location, topography, and access are
adequate for the needs of the proposed use, considering the proposed building
mass, parking, traffic, noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare,
erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety, and aesthetic considerations;
      (2)   The negative impacts of the proposed use, if any, on adjacent
properties and on the public can be mitigated through application of other Code
standards, or other reasonable conditions of approval;
      (3)   All required public facilities, including water, sanitary sewer,
and streets, have adequate capacity or are to be improved to serve the
proposal, consistent with city standards; and
      (4)   A conditional use permit shall not allow a use that is prohibited
or not expressly allowed under this chapter; nor shall a conditional use permit
grant a variance without a variance application being reviewed with the
conditional use application.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. The city may impose conditions that are found
necessary to ensure that the use is compatible with other uses in the vicinity,
and that the negative impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and
public facilities is minimized. These conditions include, but are not limited
to, one or more of the following:
      (1)   Limiting the hours, days, place, and/or manner of operation;
      (2)   Requiring site or architectural design features which minimize
environmental impacts such as noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light,
glare, erosion, odor, and/or dust;
      (3)   Requiring larger setback areas, lot area, and/or lot depth or
width;
      (4)   Limiting the building or structure height, size, lot coverage, and/
or location on the site;
      (5)   Designating the size, number, location, and/or design of vehicle
access points or parking and loading areas;
      (6)   Requiring street right-of-way to be dedicated and street
improvements made, or the installation of pathways or sidewalks, as applicable;
      (7)   Requiring landscaping, screening, drainage, water quality
facilities, and/or improvement of parking and loading areas;
      (8)   Limiting the number, size, location, height, and/or lighting of
signs;
      (9)   Limiting or setting standards for the location, type, design, and/
or intensity of outdoor lighting;
      (10)   Requiring berms, screening, or landscaping and the establishment
of standards for their installation and maintenance;
      (11)   Requiring and designating the size, height, location, and/or
materials for fences;
      (12)   Requiring the protection and preservation of existing trees,
soils, vegetation, watercourses, habitat areas, drainage areas, historic
resources, cultural resources, and/or sensitive lands; and
      (13)   Requiring improvements to water, sanitary sewer, or storm drainage
systems, in conformance with city standards.
   (C)   Approved conditional uses and uses existing prior to the effective
date of this chapter and now classified in this chapter as a conditional use
must apply for a new conditional use permit prior to any change in the use or
in lot area, or alteration or enlargement of any structure. The City Planning
Official may waive this requirement for minor alterations, i.e. those that will
have no impact on neighboring properties and/or the general public.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
MODIFICATIONS TO APPROVED PLANS  AND CONDITIONS
§ 151.285 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to provide an efficient process for modifying
land use decisions and approved development plans, in recognition of the cost
and complexity of land development and the need to conserve city resources.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.286 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies when an applicant proposes to modify an approved
application or condition of approval.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.287 MAJOR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Major modifications. The Planning Commission reviews applications for
major modifications through the quasi-judicial procedure under §
151.233. Any 1 of the following changes constitutes a major modification:
      (1)   A change in land use, from a less intensive use to a more intensive
use, as evidenced by, an estimated increase in automobile or truck trips (peak
and/or average daily trips), an increase in hours of operation, an increased
demand for parking, additional paved area, or similar factors, where the
increase is 20% or more;
      (2)   An increase in floor area in a commercial or industrial
development, or an increase in the number of dwelling units in a multifamily
development, by 20% or more;
      (3)   A reduction in required setbacks, or an increase in lot coverage,
by 20% or more;
      (4)   A change in the type and/or location of vehicle access points or
approaches, driveways, or parking areas affecting off-site traffic, where the
roadway authority determines the change could cause a significant adverse
impact on traffic operations or safety (i.e. requiring mitigation);
      (5)   A reduction to screening, or a reduction to the area reserved for
common open space or landscaping by 20% or more; or
      (6)   Change to a condition of approval, or a change similar to (A)(1)
through (5), above, that could have a detrimental impact on adjoining
properties.
      (7)   Other changes similar to those in (A)(1) through (6), above, in
scale, magnitude, or impact to adjacent properties, as determined by the City
Planning Official.
   (B)   Major modification applications; approval criteria. Requests for major
modifications shall conform to all of the following procedures and criteria:
      (1)   The applicant shall submit an application form, filing fee, a
narrative or letter describing the modification, and a site plan using the same
plan format as in the original approval. The city may require other relevant
information, as necessary, in evaluating the request;
      (2)   The application shall be subject to the same approval criteria used
for the initial project approval; except that a modification adding a
conditional use to a project approved without a conditional use shall require
findings in conformance §§
151.270 through
151.273;
      (3)   The scope of review shall be limited to the modification request.
Notice shall be provided in accordance with §§
151.230 through
151.238; and
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall approve, deny, or approve with
conditions an application for major modification based on written findings on
the applicable Code criteria, which shall be the same as for the original land
use approval (e.g., subdivision, site design review, conditional use, etc.).
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.288 MINOR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minor modification. A minor modification is a change to an approved
plan or condition of approval that does not meet any of the thresholds for a
major modification listed in §
151.287(A). The City Planning Official, through a Type I or II procedure,
depending on whether the proposal involves the exercise of discretion, shall
review proposals for minor modifications. Minor modifications include technical
corrections to comply with codes and regulations, and changes that fall below
the thresholds in §
151.287, as determined by the City Planning Official.
   (B)   Minor modification applications. An application for minor modification
shall include an application form, filing fee, letter describing the
modification, and site plan using the same plan format as in the original
approval. The City Planning Official may require other relevant information, as
necessary, in evaluating the request.
   (C)   Minor modification approval criteria. The City Planning Official shall
approve, deny, or approve with conditions an application for minor modification
based on findings of compliance or noncompliance with the applicable
requirements of the Development Code and the conditions of approval of the
original decision.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
AMENDMENTS TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP, ZONING MAP OR CODE
§ 151.300 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards and procedures for
legislative and quasi-judicial amendments to this Code and Zoning Map.
Amendments may be necessary from time to time to reflect changing community
conditions, to correct mistakes, or to address changes in the law.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.301 AUTHORIZATION TO INITIATE AND APPROVE AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment to the Comprehensive Plan text or map, and/or to the text or
zoning map of this title may be initiated by the City Council, by the Planning
Commission, or by application of a property owner or their authorized agent.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.302 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except for corrections, amendments to zoning code text are legislative
(Type IV).
   (B)   Amendments to the Zoning Map that affect only one parcel are Type III
actions. Amendments to the Zoning Map that affect more than one parcel are
Legislative (Type IV) actions.
   (C)   Amendments to the Zoning Map that require an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan are legislative (Type IV) actions.
   (D)   Amendments that do not meet the criteria under divisions (A) through
(C) may be processed as quasi-judicial amendments, pursuant to the Type III
procedure.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.303 CRITERIA.
   Planning Commission review and recommendation, and City Council approval, of
an ordinance amending the Zoning Map, Zoning Code, or Comprehensive Plan shall
be based on all of the following criteria:
   (A)   If the proposal involves an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, the
amendment must be consistent with the Statewide Planning Goals and relevant
Oregon Administrative Rules;
   (B)   The proposed change is consistent with and supportive of the
Comprehensive Plan goals, objectives, and policies (the Comprehensive Plan may
be amended concurrently with proposed changes in zoning);
   (C)   The proposed change is compatible with the surrounding existing and
planned land use pattern.
   (D)   Public facilities (i.e. transportation system, water supply, sewer
service, storm water disposal, and police and fire protection) are capable of
supporting the uses permitted in the proposed zone.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.304 RECORD OF AMENDMENTS.
   The City Recorder shall maintain records of amendments to the text of this
Code and the Zoning Map in a format convenient for public use. In the case of a
map amendment, the map shall be made part of the ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.305 TRANSPORTATION PLANNING RULE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Amendments that affect transportation facilities. Amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code which significantly affect a transportation
facility shall assure that allowed land uses are consistent with the function,
capacity, and level of service of the facility identified in the Banks
Transportation System Plan. This shall be accomplished by one of the following:
      (1)   Adopting measures that demonstrate that allowed land uses are
consistent with the planned function of the transportation facility;
      (2)   Amending the TSP or Comprehensive Plan to provide transportation
facilities, improvements, or services adequate to support the proposed land
uses; such amendments shall include a funding plan to ensure the facility,
improvement, or service will be provided by the end of the planning period;
      (3)   Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements
to reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other
modes of transportation;
      (4)   Amending the planned function, capacity or performance standards of
the transportation facility; or
      (5)   Providing other measures as a condition of development or through a
development agreement or similar funding method, specifying when such measures
will be provided.
   (B)   Exceptions. Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan or land use
regulations with a significant effect on a transportation facility, where the
facility is already performing below the minimum acceptable performance
standard identified in the Transportation System Plan may be approved when all
of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The amendment does not include property located in an interchange
area, as defined under applicable law;
      (2)   The currently planned facilities, improvements or services are not
adequate to achieve the standard;
      (3)   Development resulting from the amendment will, at a minimum,
mitigates the impacts of the amendment in a manner that avoids further
degradation to the performance of the facility by the time of the development;
and
      (4)   The road authority provides a written statement that the proposed
funding and timing for the proposed development mitigation are sufficient to
avoid further degradation to the facility.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.306 LIMITATION ON REAPPLICATIONS.
   No application of a property owner for an amendment to the text of this
chapter or to a zone boundary shall be considered by the City Council within
the 1-year period immediately following a previous denial of the request,
except the City Council may permit a new application if in the opinion of the
City Council new evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
ADJUSTMENTS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.320 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides standards and procedures for adjustments and
variances, which are modifications to development standards that are not
otherwise permitted elsewhere in this Code.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.321 INTENT.
   Adjustments are variances that are intended to provide relief from code
standards in specific situations. Both procedures are intended to ensure that
the resulting development is compatible with adjacent properties and is
consistent with the intent of the Code.
   (A)   Adjustments. Adjustments provide relief from specific code provisions
when a code provision has the unintended effect of preventing reasonable
development in conformance with all other code requirements. Adjustments are
allowed in limited situations pursuant to §
151.322.
   (B)   Variances. Variances provide greater flexibility to code standards
than adjustments, where the physical characteristics of a site or its
surroundings prevent reasonable development in compliance with a code standard.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.322 ADJUSTMENTS.
   Adjustments are minor modifications to Code standards that are intended to
provide reasonable flexibility for planned land uses and development.
Adjustments are subject to the following standards and procedures. Permitted
uses, as provided in this chapter, shall not be adjusted.
   (A)   Applicability. The City Planning Official or Planning Commission,
through a Type II procedure, may adjust the following standards:
      (1)   Setbacks. Up to a 20% reduction to a minimum setback.
      (2)   Lot coverage. Up to a 20% increase to the maximum lot coverage.
      (3)   Lot dimensions. Up to a 20% decrease to a minimum lot dimension.
      (4)   Lot area. Up to a 20% decrease in minimum lot area.
      (5)   Other dimensional standards. Up to a 20% increase or decrease in a
quantitative (numerical) standard not listed above. This option does not
include building code requirements, engineering design standards, public safety
standards, or standards implementing state or federal requirements, as
determined by the City Planning Official.
   (B)   Approval criteria. The city may grant an Adjustment only upon finding
that all of the following criteria are met. The burden is on the applicant to
demonstrate compliance with the criteria.
      (1)   The adjustment allows for a building plan that is more compatible
with adjacent land uses, or it does not create a conflict with adjacent uses;
      (2)   The adjustment is necessary to allow for normal interior building
functions, such as mechanical equipment/utility closets, heating and
ventilation systems, restrooms, stockrooms, shelving, and similar interior
building functions;
      (3)   Approval of the adjustment does not create (a) violation(s) of any
other adopted ordinance or code standard, and does not create the need for a
variance;
      (4)   An application for an adjustment is limited to one lot per
application;
      (5)   Requests for more than 1 adjustment on the same lot shall be
consolidated in 1 application and reviewed concurrently by the city;
      (6)   Not more than 3 adjustments may be approved for 1 lot or parcel in
a continuous 12-month period; and
      (7)   All applicable building code requirements and engineering design
standards shall be met.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.323 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Applicability. A variance is required if a request exceeds the
thresholds of §
151.322.
   (B)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission through a Type III
procedure may approve a variance upon finding that it meets all of the
following criteria:
      (1)   The variance is necessary because the subject Code provision does
not account for special or unique physical circumstances of the subject site,
existing development patterns, or adjacent land uses. A legal lot determination
may be sufficient evidence of a hardship for purposes of approving a variance;
      (2)   The variance is the minimum necessary to address the special or
unique physical circumstances related to the subject site;
      (3)   The need for the variance is not self-imposed by the applicant or
property owner. For example, the variance request does not arise as result of a
property line adjustment or land division approval previously granted to the
applicant;
      (4)   The variance does not conflict with other applicable city policies
or regulations;
      (5)   The variance will result in no foreseeable harm to adjacent
property owners or the public; and
      (6)   All applicable Building Code requirements and engineering design
standards shall be met.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.324 EXPIRATION.
   Approvals granted under this subchapter shall expire if not acted upon by
the property owner within 1 year of the city approving the variance. Where the
owner has applied for a building permit or final plat, has made site
improvements consistent with an approved development plan (e.g., site design
review or preliminary subdivision plan), or provides other evidence of working
in good faith toward completing the project, the City Planning Official may
extend an approval accordingly.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 151.335 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to:
   (A)   Implement the Comprehensive Plan and by providing a means for master
planning large development sites as an alternative to piecemeal subdivision
development;
   (B)   Encourage innovative planning that results in projects that benefit
the community, for example, through greater efficiency in land use, improved
protection of open spaces, transportation efficiency, and housing choices;
   (C)   Encourage housing options for a range of household sizes, incomes, and
lifestyles;
   (D)   Encourage mixed-use development and diversified employment
opportunities;
   (E)   Promote an economic arrangement of land use, buildings, circulation
systems, open space, and utilities;
   (F)   Preserve to the greatest extent possible the existing landscape
features and amenities that may not otherwise be protected through conventional
development;
   (G)   Encourage energy efficiency and improved air and water quality;
   (H)   Implement public facility master plans; and
   (I)   Provide flexibility in development standards, consistent with the
above purposes.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.336 APPLICABILITY.
   The master planned development designation may be applied over any of the
city's zones on sites of 2 acres or more. It is an option available to
developers of land.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.337 REVIEW AND APPROVALS PROCESS.
   Review steps. There are 3 required steps to master planned development
approval, which may be completed individually or combined for concurrent
review:
   (A)   Application for master planned development concept plan approval.
   (B)   Application for detailed development plan approval, which may include
a preliminary subdivision plan.
   (C)   Application(s) for final development plan (e.g., final plat and/or
site design review) approval per §
152.009 Final Plat and/or §§
151.250 through
151.256 Site Design Review.
   (D)   Approval process.
   (E)   The master planned development concept plan shall be reviewed pursuant
to the Type III procedure in §
151.233, the submission requirements in §
151.339, and the approval criteria in §
151.340.
   (F)   The detailed development plan and preliminary subdivision plan shall
be reviewed using the Type III procedure in §
151.233 to ensure substantial compliance with the approved concept plan.
   (G)   Site design review applications for approved planned developments
shall be reviewed using the procedures in §§
151.250 through
151.256 to ensure substantial compliance with the approved concept plan.
   (H)   Steps (A) through (C), above, may be combined in any manner, so long
as the decision-making sequence follows the above order. Notification and
hearings may be combined.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.338 MODIFICATIONS TO DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The development standards of this chapter may be modified through the master
plan development process without the need for variance under §§
151.320 through
151.324. In evaluating this criterion, the Planning Commission shall consider
whether the proposal, on balance, exceeds the city's minimum requirements and
provides greater public benefit than would otherwise occur under the base
Development Code requirements. In evaluating public benefits, the Planning
Commission shall apply the following criteria; the city may deny an application
for master planned development concept plan approval that does not meet all of
the following criteria:
   (A)   Comprehensive Plan. The modification does not conflict with the
Comprehensive Plan. A master planned development shall not exceed the maximum
residential density permitted by the underlying zones.
   (B)   Purpose and intent of Development Code. The modification equally or
better meets the purpose and intent of the Development Code section(s) to be
modified, as compared to a project that strictly conforms to code standards.
   (C)   Public benefit. The modification provides a public benefit greater
than would result from a project that strictly conforms to code standards, by 1
or more of the following:
      (1)   Greater variety of housing types, such as a mix of attached and
detached housing, or a wider range of lot sizes, than would be allowed under
the standard Development Code provisions;
      (2)   Recreational amenities. Required open space may be reduced from 20%
to not less than 15% proportionately (Any reduction in required open space
shall be roughly proportional to the estimated value of the offsetting
improvements or amenities, as determined by the City Engineer based on a
professional appraisal and an applicable construction cost estimate) where the
development provides one or more of the following improvements:
         (a)   Improvements identified in the City of Banks Parks and
Recreation Master Plan.
         (b)   Trail identified in the City of Banks Bicycle and Pedestrian
Plan.
         (c)   Enhanced play environment consisting of a nature play area,
universal/all-inclusive play area, or adventure/challenge play area.
         (d)   Other recreational resource or amenity not listed above but for
which the Banks City Council finds is similar.
      (3)   Greater protection of natural features than would be required of a
project that strictly conforms to code standards under the standard Development
Code provisions;
      (4)   Incorporation of natural features into subdivision design, or
avoidance of natural hazards [e.g., geological hazards, stream corridor, or
flood hazards) necessitating flexible lots sizes, cluster development plan, or
other innovative design;
      (5)   Improved transportation connectivity, such as the provision of
pathways and/or other transportation facilities, that would not otherwise be
required under minimum code standards;
      (6)   Sustainable development design meeting the certification criteria
of a nationally recognized sustainable development/green building rating
system; and/or
      (7)   Other public benefit, such as the provision of affordable housing.
   (B)   Engineering design standards. Modifications to the city's engineering
design standards require separate variance to such standards approved by the
City Engineer. The city may grant such variances concurrently with the master
planned development.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.339 CONCEPT PLAN SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Submission requirements. An application for a concept development plan
shall follow the submission requirements for a quasi-judicial review under §
151.233, and shall include all of the following:
      (1)   A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the master
planned development through the particular approach proposed by the applicant.
This statement should include a description of the character of the proposed
development and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices made by the
applicant;
      (2)   A development schedule indicating the approximate dates when
construction of the project and its various phases, if any, including public
facilities, are expected to be initiated and completed;
      (3)   A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the future
selling or leasing of all or portions of the planned development;
      (4)   Narrative report or letter documenting compliance with the
applicable approval criteria contained in §
151.340;
      (5)   Maintenance plan for any common areas or lands not dedicated to a
public agency or owned in fee simple; and
      (6)   Additional reports or studies prepared by qualified professionals,
as required by the City Planning Official, to determine potential project
impacts and mitigation, if any, related to: transportation; public facilities;
geologic or other hazards; architecture; noise, light, solar access, air
quality, or similar concerns; and natural features.
      (7)   Assurances, including assurances of proposed public benefits under
§
151.338(B)(7).
   (B)   Additional information. In addition to the written information
described in division (A) above, the concept plan application shall include all
of the following plans, exhibits and information:
      (1)   Existing conditions map, consistent with §
151.253;
      (2)   Conceptual site plan, including general land use plan, building
envelopes, circulation plan, open space network, general utility connections
and alignments, and other information necessary to convey the concept plan;
      (3)   Grading concept;
      (4)   Landscape concept, including plan for retention of existing
vegetation and general planting areas;
      (5)   Architectural concept, including plans illustrating intended
architectural styles, building heights, massing, and general materials;
      (6)   Sign concept plan, including locations, general size, style and
materials of signs, such as entry monument and wayfinding signs, as applicable;
and
      (7)   Copy of all existing covenants and restrictions, and general
description of proposed restrictions or covenants (e.g., for common areas,
private drives, if any, parking, and the like).
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.340 CONCEPT PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   The Planning Commission, in approving or approving with conditions a concept
plan, shall make findings that all of the following criteria are met. The
Planning Commission must deny an application where not all of the criteria are
met.
   (A)   Comprehensive Plan. The proposal conforms to the Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Land division chapter. Except as may be modified under §
151.338, all of the requirements for land divisions under
Chapter 152, are met;
   (C)   Zones and regulations and community design standards. Except as may be
modified under §
151.338, all of the requirements of §§
151.020 et seq. and §§
151.110 et seq. are met;
   (D)   Public facilities. The proposal shall demonstrate adequate public
facility capacity to serve the proposed development including sewer, water, and
the transportation system, except as may be modified under §
151.338;
   (E)   Open space. Master plans shall contain a minimum of 20% open space,
which may be public, private, or a combination of public and private open
space. Modifications in the amount of open space provided may be approved with
the provision of public benefit per §
151.338(C). Such open space shall be integral to the master plan and connect to
a majority of the proposed residential lots. Plans shall provide space for both
active and passive recreational uses, and may include but are not limited to:
neighborhood parks, pathways/trails, natural areas, plazas, and play fields.
Open space areas shall be shown on the final plan and recorded with the final
plat or separate instrument; and the open space shall be conveyed in accordance
with one of the following methods:
      (1)   By dedication to the city as publicly owned and maintained open
space. Open space proposed for dedication to the city must be acceptable to the
Planning Commission with regard to the size, shape, location, improvement,
environmental condition (i.e., the applicant may be required to provide an
environmental assessment), and approved by City Council based on budgetary,
maintenance, and liability considerations; or
      (2)   By leasing or conveying title (including beneficial ownership) to a
corporation, homeowners' association, or other legal entity. The terms of such
lease or other instrument of conveyance must include provisions for maintenance
and property tax payment acceptable to the city. The city, through conditions
of approval, may also require public access be provided, where the open space
is deemed necessary, based on impacts of the development, to meet public
recreational needs pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan.
   (F)   Modifications to standards. Modifications to Code standards must
conform to the criteria in §
151.338.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.341 CONCEPT PLAN AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Upon approval of a Concept Plan, the approved plan, including any
conditions of approval, shall be binding on future uses and development of the
property, except where an approval expires.
   (B)   Expiration. Except as provided by division (C), below, a concept plan
shall become void 3 years after the date of approval if the applicant, or
successor, has not filed with the city an application for detailed development
plan and final plat approval in conformance with §§
151.342 and
151.343.
   (C)   Extension. The city may grant extensions of the concept plan approval
period, not to exceed 1 year per extension, provided that the extension request
is made before expiration of the master planned development approval, the
applicant can show intent of applying for detailed development plan review
within the 1-year extension period, and there have been no substantive changes
to the applicable Comprehensive Plan policies and ordinance provisions on which
the approval was based.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.342 DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMISSION.
   Detailed development plan submittal requirements are determined based on the
conditions of approval for the Concept Plan. At a minimum, the detailed
development plan submittal shall meet the minimum requirements for final plat
submission under § 152.009, and shall contain information demonstrating
compliance with the Concept Plan. The detailed development plan and preliminary
subdivision plan, if proposed, shall be reviewed using the Type III procedure
in §
151.232 to ensure substantial conformance to the approved Concept Plan. Where
the proposal is for a multifamily development. Site design review is required,
pursuant to §§
151.250 through
151.256; Site Design Reviews for multifamily development on detailed
development plans shall be processed through the Type II procedure.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.343 DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   Approval of the detailed development plan shall be based upon a finding that
the final plan substantially conforms to the Concept Plan, including any
Concept Plan conditions of approval. Minor changes to the approved Concept Plan
may be approved with the detailed plan where the Planning Commission finds that
the modification is necessary to correct an error, or to address changes in
circumstances beyond the applicant's control that have occurred since the date
of project approval. Other changes must be reviewed as modifications under §§
151.285 through
151.288.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.344 SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
151.252, where the city has previously approved a development project in
concept as part of a master planned development approval, as determined by the
City Planning Official, subsequent land use applications for the same project
may be processed through a Type I review.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 151.355 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter provides standards and procedures for the
continuation of uses and developments that are lawfully established but do not
comply with current Code standards ("nonconforming situations"). The Code is
intended to protect public health, safety, and general welfare, while allowing
reasonable use of private property. The subchapter contains 3 sections as
follows:
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter apply to nonconforming
situations that were lawfully established. Situations that are nonconforming
and were not lawfully established must be lawfully established through the
appropriate review procedure. The expansion of nonconforming situations is
subject to site design review per §§
151.250 through
151.256.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses (e.g., uses not allowed in zone) are subject to
division (C);
      (2)   Nonconforming developments (e.g., structure does not meet minimum
setbacks) are subject to division (C); and
      (3)   Nonconforming lots (e.g., lot is smaller than minimum area
standard) are subject to division (D).
   (C)   Nonconforming use. Where a use of land exists that would not be
permitted under the current Code but was lawful at the time it was established,
the use may continue, provided it conforms to the following standards:
      (1)   Limited expansion of nonconforming use. Expansion of a
nonconforming use shall not exceed 35% percent of the use, and not more than
35% of the lot area, whichever is less, which existed as of 6-12-2014.
Expansion of a nonconforming use requires approval of a Type II site design
review per §§
151.250 through
151.256.
      (2)   Location of nonconforming use. A nonconforming use shall not be
moved in whole or in part from 1 lot to another lot, except as to bring the use
into conformance with this Code.
      (3)   Discontinuation or abandonment of nonconforming use. A
nonconforming use that is discontinued for any reason other than fire or other
catastrophe beyond the owner's control for a period of more than 12 months
shall be deemed abandoned and shall no longer be an allowed use. For purposes
of calculating the 12-month period, a use is discontinued upon the first
occurrence of any 1 of the following:
         (a)   The date when the use of land is physically vacated;
         (b)   The date the use ceases to be actively involved in the sale of
merchandise or the provision of services; for example, as evidenced by the
removal of signs, goods/stock, or office equipment, or the disconnection of
telephone or utility service;
         (c)   The date of termination of any lease or contract under which the
nonconforming use has occupied the land;
         (d)   The date a request for final reading of water and power meters
is made to the applicable utility districts;
         (e)   The date when the owner's utility bill or property tax bill
account became delinquent; or
         (f)   Where data for events listed in divisions (C)(3)(a) through (C)
(3)(e), above, is not available, the date of an event similar to those listed
in divisions (C)(3)(a) through (C)(3)(e), above, as determined by the Planning
Commission.
      (4)   Application of code criteria and standards to nonconforming use.
Once the city deems a use abandoned pursuant to division (B), any subsequent
use of the subject lot shall conform to the current standards and criteria of
this Code; the prior use shall not be allowed to resume, in whole or in part,
under the same or different ownership/management, and any such activity is a
violation of this Code.
      (5)   Extension of nonconforming status for discontinued use. A
nonconforming use that is discontinued shall not be considered abandoned where
the Planning Commission grants an extension for repair, including as applicable
ongoing, active renovation and efforts to lease the subject property. The owner
must request the extension within the 6-month period of discontinuance.
      (6)   Exceptions. Properties on NW Main Street having commercial zone
designations prior to 2023 and listed in Ord. 2023-07-11 are exempt from
division (C)(1) above as confirmed by the Planning Director.
   (D)   Nonconforming development. Nonconforming development includes
situations where a development exists on the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this Code that could not be built under the terms of the Code, for
example, by reason of restrictions on lot area, lot coverage, location on a
lot, setbacks, height, yard, equipment, access, parking, landscaping, or other
physical restriction or requirement. If the development was lawful when
constructed, it may remain on the site so long as it remains otherwise lawful
and complies with the following regulations:
      (1)   Expansion. Any expansion of a nonconforming development shall not
exceed 30% of the subject building area or development area, as applicable; for
example, such area may include floor area or other surface area, paving,
parking spaces, landscaping, outdoor storage, signage, lighting, or other
developed areas that existed as of 6-12-2014. Expansion of a nonconforming
development requires approval of a Type II site design review per §§
151.250 through
151.256.
      (2)   Other alterations. A nonconforming development shall not be
enlarged or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity. A development or
portion thereof may be enlarged or altered in a way that satisfies the current
requirements of this Code or moves in the direction conformity.
      (3)   Destruction. Should a nonconforming development or nonconforming
portion of development be destroyed by any means to an extent more than 50% of
its current value as assessed by the Washington County Assessor, it shall be
reconstructed only in full conformity with this Code. This does not preclude
the reestablishment of a nonconforming use after fire or other catastrophe. See
also, division (B).
      (4)   Roadway access. The owner of a nonconforming driveway approach or
access to a public street or highway, upon receiving approval from the
applicable roadway authority, may be required as a condition of approval to
bring the non-conforming access into conformance with the standards of the
roadway authority.
      (5)   Relocation or removal. Once a nonconforming structure, or a portion
thereof, is moved to a different lot, it shall thereafter conform to current
Code standards.
      (6)   Exceptions. Properties on NW Main Street having commercial zone
designations prior to 2023 and listed in Ord. 2023-07-11 are exempt from
divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above as confirmed by the Planning Director.
   (E)   Nonconforming lot. A legal lot or lot of record, as provided by §
151.005, with an area or dimensions that do not meet the standards of the zone
in which the property is located, may be occupied by a use permitted in the
zone subject to other requirements of the zone.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-07-03, passed 8-8-2023)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 151.365 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to
flood conditions in specific areas.
   (B)   Objectives.
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize damage public facilities and utilities;
      (5)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions; and
      (6)   To manage the alteration of special flood hazard areas and stream
channels to maintain their natural and beneficial functions.
   (C)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish these
objectives, this subchapter includes methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which area dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion control hazards, or which result
in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to flood, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating to construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.366 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of
this subchapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, or AH Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from 1 to 3 feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident. AO is characterized as sheet
flow and AH indicates ponding.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance offloading in any given year. Designation on
maps always includes the letters A or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the "100-year flood."
Designation on maps always include the letters A or V.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BELOW-GRADE CRAWL SPACE. An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than 2 feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the
crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation, does not exceed 4 feet at
any point.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter from FEMA commenting on
whether a proposed project, if built as proposed, would meet the minimum NFIP
standards or proposed hydrology changes.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, post, piers, pilings, or columns.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places which
have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by the
State of Oregon Historic Preservation Program.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood Insurance
Studies. LOMCs are issued in the following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the Flood Insurance
Rate Maps based on technical data showing that an existing structure or parcel
of land that has not been elevated by fill (natural grade) was inadvertently
included in the special flood hazard area because of an area of naturally high
ground above the base flood.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A LOMR revises the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map and/or Flood Insurance Study to show changes to the
floodplains, floodways or flood elevations. LOMRs are generally based on
manmade alterations that affected the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics
of a flooding source and thus result in modification to the existing regulatory
floodway, the effective base flood elevation, or the special flood hazard
areas.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this subchapter.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of this subchapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, foundations
or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a modular or temporary building, or
a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any way,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or State of Oregon Historic Resources inventory.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   WATER DEPENDENT. A structure for commerce or industry which cannot exist in
any other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic
nature of its operations.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.367 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
City of Banks.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.368 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Banks" dated MONTH, DAY, YEAR, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Maps are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this subchapter. The Flood Insurance Study is on file at City
Hall. The best available information for flood hazard area identification is
outlined in §
151.375 and shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM is issued which
incorporates the date under §
151.375.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.369 PENALTIES FOR CONFORMANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this subchapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this
subchapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
subchapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall be fined for
the violation and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case. Nothing herein contain shall prevent the City of Banks from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.370 ABROGATION AND SEVERABILITY.
   This subchapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this subchapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. If any section
clause, sentence, or phrase of the subchapter is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said holding
shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.371 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit or repeal any other powers granted under
Oregon statutes.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.372 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This subchapter does
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This subchapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City of Banks, any officer or
employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance Administration, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.373 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Development permit required. A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins with any area of special flood hazard
established in § 151.368. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in the "Definitions" and for all development
including fill and other activities, also set forth in the "Definitions."
   (B)   Application for development permit. Application for a development
permit shall be made of forms furnished by the City of Banks and may include
but not be limited to plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of floodproofing in any
structure;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods of any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
151.377(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.374 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager or his/her designee is hereby appointed to administer and
implement this subchapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.375 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the local administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Provide base flood elevation and freeboard.
      (1)   When base flood elevation has been provided in accordance with §
151.368, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, the local
Floodplain Administrator shall provide it to the Building Official along with
any freeboard requirements established in §
151.377 Specific Standards.
      (2)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided (A and V
Zones) in accordance with §
151.368 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, the local
floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and provide any base flood
elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source,
in order to administer §
151.377, Specific Standards, and §
151.378.
   (B)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this subchapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of §
151.379 are met.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
      (1)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study, FIRM, or required as in division (A) of this section, obtain
and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basements and below-grade crawlspaces) of all new or
substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement.
      (3)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures where
base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood Insurance Study, FIRM,
or as required in division (A) of this section.
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
151.373(B)(3).
      (4)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Development shall not diminish the flood carrying capacity of a
watercourse. If any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development the applicant must submit certification by a registered
professional engineer that the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will
not be diminished.
      (2)   Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Land Conservation
and Development and other appropriate state and federal agencies, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (3)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse, so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (4)   Applicants shall obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CLOMR) from FEMA before any encroachment, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvement, or other development, in the regulatory floodway is
permitted. The applicant shall be responsible for preparing technical data to
support the CLOMR application and paying any processing or application fees to
FEMA.
   (E)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   Notify FEMA within 6 months of project completion when an applicant
had obtained a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) from FEMA, or when
development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain boundaries, or modified
base flood elevations. This notification shall be provided as a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR).
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible for preparing technical data to
support the LOMR application and paying any processing or application fees to
FEMA.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign
the community acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirements of this code and all applicable state and federal laws.
   (F)   Non-conversion of enclosed areas below the lowest floor. To ensure
that enclosed areas below the lowest floor continue to be used solely for
parking vehicles, limited storage, or access to the building and not be
finished for use as human habitation/recreation/bathrooms, and the like, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are 5 feet
or higher;
      (2)   Require such applicants to enter into a "Non-Conversion Deed
Declaration for Construction Within Flood Hazard Areas" or equivalent. The deed
declaration shall be recorded with the City of Banks and shall be in a form
acceptable to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (G)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where needed,
as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation.
Such appeals shall be granted consistent with the standards of Section 60.6 of
the Rules and Regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. §
59-76).
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.376 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors (refer to
FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas" for additional
techniques).
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designated to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters; and
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      (4)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contains at least
50 lots or 5 acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the Flood Insurance Study, FIRM, or from other authoritative
source, applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that
proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding, and the like, where available.
Failure to elevate at least 2 feet above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   (F)   AH Zone drainage. Adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.377 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided (Zones A1-30, AH and AE) as set forth in §
151.368, Basis For Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard or §
151.375(A)(2), Use of Other Base Flood Data (in A and V Zones), the following
provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a
minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be either certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of 2 openings have a total net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New nonresidential construction shall be floodproofed so that below
the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures shall have structural components capable
of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   Nonresidential construction shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting provisions of
this division based on their development and/or review of the structural
design, specifications and plans. Such certifications shall be provided to the
official as set forth in §
151.375(C)(2).
      (4)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described division
(A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential structures shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one
floor below the floodproofed level (e.g. a building floodproofed to the base
flood level will be rates as one foot below).
      (6)   Applicants shall supply a maintenance plan for the entire structure
to include but not limited to: exterior envelope of structure; all penetrations
to the exterior of the structure; all shields, gates, barriers, or components
designed to provide floodproofing protection to the structure; all seals or
gaskets for shields, gates, barriers, or components; and the location of all
shields, gates, barriers, and components as well as all associated hardware,
and any materials or specialized tools necessary to seal the structure.
      (7)   Applicants shall supply an emergency action plan (EAP) for the
installation and sealing of the structure prior to a flooding event that
clearly identifies what triggers the EAP and who is responsible for enacting
the EAP.
   (C)   Manufactured dwellings.
      (1)   Manufactured dwellings supported on solid foundation walls shall be
constructed with flood openings that comply with §
151.376(A)(2).
      (2)   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in A zones, shall
be at or above the BFE.
      (3)   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. (Refer to FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard
Areas.").
      (4)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above BFE.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   Be fully licensed for highway use, on its wheels or jacking system,
is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Meet the requirements of division (C) of this section and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes.
   (E)   Small accessory structures. Relief from elevation or floodproofing as
required in division (A) or (B) of this section may be granted for small
accessory structures that are:
      (1)   Less than 200 square feet and do not exceed one story;
      (2)   Not temperature controlled;
      (3)   Not used for human habitation and are used solely for parking of
vehicles or storage of items having low damage potential when submerged;
      (4)   Not used to store toxic material, oil or gasoline, or any priority
persistent pollutant identified by the Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality shall unless confined in a tank installed in compliance with this
subchapter or stored at least 1 foot above base flood elevation;
      (5)   Located and constructed to have low damage potential;
      (6)   Constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
      (7)   Anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood;
      (8)   Constructed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater. Designs for
complying with this requirement must be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect or:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not
less than 1 square inch of every square foot of enclosed areas subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior grade or flood immediately below the
opening;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided the permit the automatic flow of floodwater in
both directions without manual intervention.
      (9)   Constructed with electrical and other service facilities located
and installed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of the base flood.
   (F)   Below-grade crawl spaces. Below grade crawl spaces are allowed subject
to the standards as found in FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01, Crawlspace
Construction for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.378 BEFORE REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   In areas where a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the Banks FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point
within the community.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.379 FLOODWAY.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.368 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, prohibit
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development unless certification by a registered professional civil
engineer is provide demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
151.376 through
151.380.
   (C)   Projects for stream habitat restoration may be permitted in the
floodway provided:
      (1)   The project qualifies for a Department of the Army, Portland
District, "Regional General Permit for Stream Habitat Restoration (NWP-2007-
1023); and
      (2)   A qualified professional (a registered professional engineer, or
staff of the NRCS; the county or fisheries, natural resources or water
resources agencies) has provided a feasibility analysis and certification that
the project was designed to keep any rise in the 100-year flood levels as close
to zero as practically possible given the goals of the project; and
      (3)   No structures would be impacted by a potential rise in flood
elevation; and
      (4)   An agreement to monitor the project, correct problems, and ensure
that flood carrying capacity remains unchanged is included as part of the local
approval.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.380 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS (AO ZONES).
   Shallow flooding areas appear on the FIRM as AO Zones with depth
designations. The base flood depths in these zones range from 1 to 3 feet above
ground where a clearly defined channel does not exist, or where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is usually characterized as sheet flow. In these areas the following provisions
apply.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures and manufactured homes within AO Zones shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the building,
a minimum of one foot above the depth specified on the FIRM (at least 2 feet if
no depth number is specified).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures within AO Zones shall either:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, 1 foot or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified);
or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as in §
151.377(B)(3).
   (C)   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites with AO Zones on the community
FIRM shall either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices and has no permanently attached elevations; or
      (3)   Meet the requirements of this section above and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for manufactured homes.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable upon conviction by
a fine of not more than $100 for each day of violation, where the offense is a
continuing offense, but the fine may not exceed $1,000. A fine of not more than
$500 where the offense is not a continuing offense.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
APPENDIX A: FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARD AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
(Ord. 4.041, passed - -)
APPENDIX B: VISION CLEARANCE TRIANGLE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
(Ord. 4.041, passed - -)
APPENDIX C: FENCE HEIGHT IN FRONT AND STREET SIDE YARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
 
(Ord. 4.041, passed - -)
APPENDIX D: CORNER LOTS HAVING ABUTTING STREET SIDE YARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
 
(Ord. 4.041, passed - -)
APPENDIX E: CORNER LOT HAVING STREET SIDE YARD ABUTTING NEIGHBOR’S FRONT YARD
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
 
(Ord. 4.041, passed - -)
APPENDIX F: THROUGH LOT YARD AREAS FOR FENCES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/09874340ec0f2d443cf5ea34b4574646f187d193/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
 
(Ord. 4.041, passed - -)
APPENDIX G: OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES
Use Aggregate Floor Area (Square Feet) Berths Required Type
Use                           Aggregate Floor Area (Square Berths Required Type
                              Feet)
Freight terminals, industrial 12,000 – 36,000            1               A
plants, manufacturing or      36,000 – 60,000            2               A
wholesale establishments,     60,000 – 100,000           3               A
warehouses                    each additional 50,000 or    1 additional    A
                              fraction thereof
                              25,000 – 150,000           1               B
Auditorium, motel convention  150,000 – 400,000          2               B
halls, or sport arenas        each additional 250,000 or   1 additional    B
                              fraction thereof
Hospitals, nursing homes,     10,000 – 100,000           1               B
sanitoria, convalescent
homes, and similar            Over 100,000                 2               B
institutional uses
Department stores, retail     7,000 – 24,000             1               B
establishments, restaurants,  24,000 – 50,000            2               B
funeral homes, and commercial 50,000 – 100,000           3               B
establishments not otherwise  Over 100,000
specified                     Each additional 50,000 or    1 additional    B
                              major fraction thereof
                              25,000 – 40,000            1               B
Hotels or office buildings    40,000 – 100,000           2               B
                              Each additional 100,000 or   1 additional    B
                              major fraction thereof
Schools                       Over 14,000                  1               B
 
(Ord. 2-2-80, passed 2-19-1980; Am. Ord. passed 4- -1989)
CHAPTER 152: LAND DIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Land Division and Property Line Adjustments
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Applicability
   
152.003   General requirements
   
152.004   Preliminary plat approval process
   
152.005    Flag lots and lot size averaging
   
152.006   Preliminary plat submission requirements
   
152.007   Preliminary plat approval criteria
   
152.008   Land division - related variances
   
152.009   Final plat submission requirements and approval criteria
   
152.010   Filing and recording
   
152.011   Re-platting and vacation of plats
   
152.012   Property line adjustments
   
152.013    Enforcement
Design Standards
   
152.050   Principles of acceptability
   
152.051   Required improvements
   
152.052   Streets
   
152.053   Blocks
   
152.054   Building sites
   
152.055   Grading of building sites
   
152.056   Building lines
   
152.057   Large building sites
   
152.058   Land for public purposes
   
152.059   Public improvements
   
152.060   Street trees
   
152.061   Vehicle storage area
Exception and Variances
   
152.075   Variance application
   
152.076   Action on variances
Administration
   
152.090   Approving agency
   
152.091   Appeal
   
152.092   Forms of petitions, applications, and appeals
   
152.093   Hearings
 
   
152.999   Penalty
LAND DIVISIONS AND PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the objectives in divisions (A)
through (E), below:
   (A)   Provide rules, regulations and standards governing the approval of
subdivisions, partitions and property line adjustments.
   (B)   Carry out the city's development pattern, as envisioned by the city's
Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Encourage efficient use of land resources and public services, and to
provide transportation options.
   (D)   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare through orderly
and efficient urbanization.
   (E)   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land, and
provide for adequate transportation, water supply, sewage, fire protection,
pollution control, surface water management, and protection against natural
hazards.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.002 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to applications for approval of partitions,
subdivisions and property line adjustments, as follows:
   (A)   Partitions are the dividing land to create not more than 3 parcels of
land within a calendar year.
   (B)   Subdivisions are the dividing of land to create 4 or more lots within
a calendar year.
   (C)   Property line adjustments are modifications to property boundaries
that do not divide land. Lot consolidations where no lot or parcel is created
are processed the same as property line adjustments.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.003 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision and partition approval through 2-step process.
Applications for subdivision or partition approval shall be processed by means
of a preliminary plat evaluation and a final plat evaluation, according to the
following 2 steps:
      (1)   The preliminary plat must be approved before the final plat can be
submitted for approval consideration; and
      (2)   The final plat must demonstrate compliance with all conditions of
approval of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Compliance with O.R.S. Chapter 92. Subdivisions and partitions shall
conform to O.R.S. Chapter 92, Subdivisions and Partitions.
   (C)   Future re-division plan. When subdividing or partitioning tracts into
large lots (i.e., greater than 3 times or 300% the minimum lot size allowed by
the underlying land use district), the lots shall be of such size, shape, and
orientation as to facilitate future re-division and extension of streets and
utilities. The applicant shall submit a future re-division plan, or shadow
plan, indicating how re-division of dividable lots and extension of planned
public facilities to adjacent parcels can occur in the future, in accordance
with this Code.
   (D)   Adequate utilities.
      (1)   All lots created through land division shall have adequate public
utilities and facilities, including streets, water, sewer, gas, and electrical
systems, consistent with the Public Works Design Standards Manual. Water system
improvements shall conform to the Banks Water Master Plan.
      (2)   For land divisions that anticipate new water service connections,
the applicant shall provide written confirmation from the City Engineer
verifying that the city's public water system has adequate capacity to serve
the proposed number of new water service connections. Alternatively, the
applicant may provide documentation satisfactory to the City Engineer of its
own alternative source of water that is legally capable of being dedicated to
and annexed to the city's municipal water system and of sufficient capacity to
serve the proposed number of new water service connections.
   (E)   Adequate drainage. All lots created through land division shall have
adequate surface water drainage facilities that avoid exposure to flood damage
and protect water quality. Water quality or quantity control improvements shall
conform to the requirements of Clean Water Services.
   (F)   Adequate access. All lots created or reconfigured shall have adequate
vehicle access and parking, as may be required, consistent with the Public
Works Design Standards Manual.
   (G)   Underground utilities. All new lots shall be served with utilities
located and constructed underground, consistent with the Public Works Design
Standards Manual, except where the City Engineer determines that underground
placement of utilities is infeasible.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.004 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Review of preliminary plat. Preliminary plats shall be processed using
the quasi-judicial procedure under §
151.233. All preliminary plats, including partitions and subdivisions, are
subject to the approval criteria in §
152.007.
   (B)   Preliminary plat approval period. Preliminary plat approval shall be
effective for a period of 2 years from the date of approval. The preliminary
plat shall lapse if a final plat has not been submitted or other assurance
provided, pursuant with §
152.008, within the 2-year period. The Planning Commission may approve phased
subdivisions, pursuant with this chapter, with an overall time frame of more
than 2 years between preliminary and final plat approvals.
   (C)   Modifications and extensions. The applicant may request changes to the
approved preliminary plat or conditions of approval following the procedures
and criteria provided in this chapter. The Planning Commission may, upon
written request by the applicant and payment of the required fee, grant written
extensions of the approval period not to exceed 1 year per extension, provided
that all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   Any changes to the preliminary plat follow the procedures in this
chapter;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted written intent to file a final plat
within the 1-year extension period;
      (3)   An extension of time will not prevent the lawful development of
abutting properties;
      (4)   There have been no changes to the applicable Code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new preliminary
plat application shall be required; and
      (5)   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved plan.
   (D)   Phased subdivision. The Planning Commission may approve plans for
phasing a subdivision, and changes to approved phasing plans, provided
applicant's proposal meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   In no case shall the construction time period (i.e., for required
public improvements, utilities, streets) for the first subdivision phase be
more than 1 year;
      (2)   Public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or prior
to each phase;
      (3)   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city or a
third party (e.g., owners of lots) to construct public facilities that are
required as part of the approved development proposal;
      (4)   The proposed phasing schedule shall be reviewed with the
preliminary subdivision plat application; and
      (5)   Planning Commission approval is required for modifications to
phasing plans.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.005 FLAG LOTS AND LOT SIZE AVERAGING.
   (A)   Flag lots. Flag lots may be created only where a through street cannot
reasonably be extended to serve standard lots in accordance with this Code. A
flag lot driveway ("flag pole") shall serve not more than 3 dwelling units,
provided applicable building and fire code requirements are met. The layout of
flag lots, the placement of buildings on such lots, and the alignment of shared
drives shall not preclude planned future street connections as adjacent
properties develop, and shall conform to the transportation connectivity and
block length standards set forth in the City of Banks Transportation System
Plan.
   (B)   Emergency vehicle access. An emergency vehicle apparatus lane,
including any required turn-around, shall conform to applicable building and
fire code requirements. Fire sprinklers may also be required where a lot is not
adequately served by a fire hydrant with sufficient water pressure.
   (C)   Reciprocal access. A drive serving more than 1 lot shall have a
reciprocal access and maintenance easement recorded for all lots it serves. No
fence, structure or other obstacle shall be placed within the drive area.
   (D)   Lot size averaging. To allow flexibility in subdivision design and to
address physical constraints, such as topography, existing development,
significant trees, and other natural and built features, the approval body may
grant a 20% modification to the lot area and/or lot dimension (width/depth)
standards in §§ 151.035 through 151.038, provided that the overall density of
the subdivision does not exceed the allowable density of the underlying zone
and the approval body finds that all of the following are met:
      (1)   Granting the modification is necessary to achieve planned housing
densities, as allowed by the underlying zone, or to improve development
compatibility with natural features or adjacent land uses;
      (2)   Where a proposed subdivision would abut an existing subdivision
with standard or larger sized lots, the perimeter of the proposed subdivision
shall contain standard or larger sized lots; except that this provision does
not apply where the existing lots are larger than 10,000 square feet; and
      (3)   The (city decision-making body) may require screening, buffering,
or other transitions in site design where substandard lots are proposed to abut
standard or larger sized lots.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.006 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications for preliminary plat approval shall contain all of the
following information:
   (A)   Application for quasi-judicial review. Application materials for a
quasi-judicial review, including application form, fee, narrative, and plan
exhibits, are required. See §
151.233.
   (B)   Public facilities and services impact analysis. The impact analysis
shall quantify and assess the effects of the proposed development on public
facilities and services. The City Engineer and City Planning Official shall
advise as to the scope of the study, which shall address, at a minimum, the
transportation system, including required improvements for vehicles and
pedestrians; the drainage system; the parks system (for subdivisions and master
planned developments); water system; and sewer system. For each system and type
of impact, the analysis shall propose improvements necessary to meet the City
Public Works Design Standards Manual, other applicable adopted ordinances and
facility master plans. The city may require a separate traffic impact analysis.
   (C)   Preliminary plat map(s). An engineer or professional land surveyor
licensed by the State of Oregon shall prepare the preliminary plat map(s), at a
scale determined by the City Engineer, which shall consist of at least the
following information:
      (1)   Name of proposed partition or subdivision (partitions are named by
year and file number). This name shall not duplicate the name of another land
division in Washington County (check with County Surveyor);
      (2)   Date, north arrow, and scale of drawing;
      (3)   Location of the development sufficient to define its location in
the city, boundaries, and a legal description of the site;
      (4)   Zoning of parcel to be divided, including any overlay zones; and
      (5)   A title block including the names, addresses and telephone numbers
of the owners of the subject property and, as applicable, the name of the
engineer and surveyor, and the date of the survey;
      (6)   Identification of the drawing as a "preliminary plat"; and
      (7)   Existing conditions. Except where the City Planning Official deems
certain information is not relevant, applications for preliminary plat approval
shall contain all of the following information on existing conditions of the
site:
         (a)   Streets. Location, name, and present width of all streets,
alleys and rights-of-way on and abutting the site;
         (b)   Easements. Width, location and purpose of all existing easements
of record on and abutting the site;
         (c)   Utilities. Location and identity of all utilities on and
abutting the site. If water mains and sewers are not on or abutting the site,
indicate the direction and distance to the nearest one and show how utilities
will be brought to standards;
         (d)   Ground elevations shown by contour lines at 2-foot vertical
interval. Such ground elevations shall be related to some established benchmark
or other datum approved by the County Surveyor; the Planning Commission may
waive this standard for partitions when grades, on average, are less than 6%;
         (e)   The location and elevation of the closest benchmark(s) within or
adjacent to the site (i.e., for surveying purposes);
         (f)   The base flood elevation, per FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps, as
applicable;
         (g)   North arrow and scale; and
         (h)   Other information, as deemed necessary by the City Planning
Official for review of the application. The city may require studies or
exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to address specific site features
and code requirements.
      (8)   Proposed development (may be depicted on more than 1 map). Except
where the City Planning Official deems certain information is not relevant,
applications for preliminary plat approval shall contain all of the following
information on the proposed development:
         (a)   Proposed lots, streets, tracts, including private open space,
common area, or streets, if any, and approximate dimensions, area calculation
(e.g., in square feet), and identification numbers for all proposed lots and
tracts;
         (b)   Location, names, right-of-way dimensions, approximate radius of
street curves, and approximate finished street center line grades;
         (c)   Any streets and tracts that are being held for private use and
all reservations and restrictions relating to such private tracts shall be
identified;
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall also require a dedication of land
for public park and recreation purposes. The public park dedication shall not
exceed 15% (0 to 15%) of the buildable land area within the subdivision;
         (e)   Easements: location, width and purpose of all proposed
easements;
         (f)   Proposed uses of the property, including all areas proposed to
be dedicated as public right-of-way or reserved as open space for the purpose
of surface water management, recreation, or other use;
         (g)   Proposed public street improvements, consistent with the Public
Works Design Standards Manual, including evidence of contact with the
applicable road authority, if different than the city, where a new street
connection is proposed;
         (h)   On slopes exceeding an average grade of 10%, as determined by
the City Engineer, the preliminary location of development on lots (e.g.,
building envelopes), demonstrating that future development can meet minimum
required setbacks and applicable engineering design standards for streets,
driveways, drainage, and retaining walls, as applicable;
         (i)   Preliminary design for extending city water service to each lot
consistent with the Public Works Design Standards Manual;
         (j)   Preliminary design for extending sanitary sewer service to each
lot, and a Service Provider Letter from Clean Water Services;
         (k)   Proposed method of storm water drainage and treatment, if
required, consistent with the Public Works Design Standards Manual and a
Service Provider Letter from Clean Water Services;
         (l)   The approximate location and identity of other utilities,
consistent with the Public Works Design Standards Manual including the
locations of street lighting fixtures, as applicable;
         (m)   Evidence of compliance with applicable overlay zones, including
but not limited to those regulating development in flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.007 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny a preliminary plat application. The Planning Commission
decision shall be based on findings of compliance with all of the following
approval criteria:
      (1)   All proposed lots, blocks, and proposed land uses shall conform to
the applicable provisions of the underlying zoning, unless a variance is
approved pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Access to individual lots, and public improvements necessary to
serve the development, including but not limited to water, sewer, storm
drainage, and streets, shall conform to the Public Works Design Standards
Manual, to applicable city standards and the requirements of the respective
service providers;
      (3)   The proposed streets, utilities, and water facilities conform to
City of Banks Public Works Design Standards Manual, adopted public facility
master plans and allow for logical transitions to existing and potential future
development on adjacent lands. The preliminary plat shall identify all proposed
public improvements and dedications;
      (4)   The proposed plat name is not already recorded for another
subdivision, and the plat is consistent with the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter
92;
      (5)   Subdivisions shall contain a minimum 15% open space except as
modified by other provisions of this code. Open space areas meeting this
standard include lands designated for public parks, trails, common areas
maintained by homeowners' associations, and areas with protected natural
resources. Open space shall be identified on the preliminary plat, and
maintenance of such areas is assured through appropriate legal instrument;
      (6)   Evidence that any required state and federal permits, as
applicable, have been obtained or can reasonably be obtained prior to the final
plat;
      (7)   Evidence that improvements or conditions required by the city, road
authority, Washington County, special districts, utilities, and/or other
service providers, as applicable to the project, have been or can be met; and
      (8)   All proposed lots, except those reserved as common area or open
space, contain sufficient buildable area for at least 1 dwelling, given
existing natural features, if any, and the setback and lot coverage standards
of the underlying zone.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. The Planning Commission may attach such
conditions as are necessary to carry out provisions of this Code, and other
applicable ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.008 LAND DIVISION-RELATED VARIANCES.
   Variances are processed in accordance with §§
152.075 and
152.076. Applications for variances associated with proposed land divisions
shall be submitted at the same time as the application for the land division,
and, when practical, the applications shall be reviewed concurrently.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.009 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Final plat required. Final plats require review and approval through a
Type II review prior to recording with Washington County. The applicant shall
submit an application for final plat approval within 4 years of the approval of
the preliminary plat. A professional land surveyor licensed by the State of
Oregon shall prepare the final plat, which shall conform to O.R.S. Chapter 92.
   (B)   Final plat approval process and criteria. The City Planning Official
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny a final plat application. The
decision shall be based on findings of compliance with all of the following
approval criteria:
      (1)   The final plat is consistent in design (e.g., number, area,
dimensions of lots, easements, tracts, right-of-way) with the approved
preliminary plat, and all conditions of approval have been satisfied;
      (2)   All public improvements required by the preliminary plat have been
installed and approved by the city, or applicable service provider if different
than the City of Banks, or are otherwise bonded with a financial guarantee in a
form or amount acceptable to the City Attorney;
      (3)   The streets and roads for public use are dedicated without
reservation or restriction other than reversionary rights upon vacation of any
such street or road and easements for public utilities;
      (4)   All required streets, access ways, roads, easements, and other
dedications or reservations are shown on the plat;
      (5)   The plat and deed contain a dedication to the public of all public
improvements, including but not limited to streets, public pathways and trails,
access reserve strips, parks, water, and sewer facilities, as applicable;
      (6)   As applicable, the applicant has furnished acceptable copies of
covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&R's); easements, maintenance
agreements (e.g., for access, common areas, surface water facilities, parking,
and the like); and other documents pertaining to common improvements recorded
and referenced on the plat;
      (7)   Written verification from clean water services that sanitary sewer
service is provided to every lot depicted on the plat and the development
conforms to applicable surface water management and storm drainage
requirements; and
      (8)   The plat contains an affidavit by the surveyor who surveyed the
land, represented on the plat to the effect the land was correctly surveyed and
marked with proper monuments as provided by O.R.S. Chapter 92, indicating the
initial point of the survey, and giving the dimensions and kind of such
monument and its reference to some corner approved by the Washington County
Surveyor for purposes of identifying its location.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.010 FILING AND RECORDING.
   A new lot is not a legal lot for purposes of ownership (title), sale, lease,
or development/land use until a final plat for the subdivision or partition
containing the lot is recorded. Requests to validate an existing lot created
through means other than a final plat ("lot of record") shall follow the
procedures set forth in O.R.S. 92.010 - 92.190. The final plat filing and
recording requirements are as follows:
   (A)   Filing plat with county. Within 60 days of the city approval of the
final plat, the applicant shall produce required final hardcopy and electronic
copies of said plat, obtain required signatures, and submit the final plat to
Washington County for signatures of County officials and recording as required
by O.R.S. Chapter 92.
   (B)   Proof of recording. Upon final recording with the county, the
applicant shall submit to the city a mylar copy and 3 paper copies of all
sheets of the recorded final plat. This shall occur prior to the issuance of
building permits any newly created lot.
   (C)   Prerequisites to recording the plat.
      (1)   No plat shall be recorded unless all ad valorem taxes and all
special assessments, fees, or other charges required by law to be placed on the
tax roll have been paid in the manner provided by O.R.S. Chapter 92.
      (2)   No plat shall be recorded until the County Surveyor approves it in
the manner provided by O.R.S. Chapter 92.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.011 RE-PLATTING AND VACATION OF PLATS.
   Any plat or portion thereof may be re-platted or vacated upon approval of an
application signed by all of the owners as appearing on the deed. Except as
required for street vacations, the same procedure and standards that apply to
the creation of a plat [preliminary plat followed by final plat) shall be used
to re-plat or vacate a plat. Street vacations are subject to O.R.S. Chapter
271. A re-plat or vacation application may be denied if it abridges or destroys
any public right in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or alleys; or
if it fails to meet any applicable city standards.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.012 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   A property line adjustment is the modification of lot boundary when no lot
is created. The Planning Commission reviews applications for property line
adjustments pursuant with the administrative land use decision procedure under
§
151.232. Administrative Review. The application submission and approval process
for property line adjustments is as follows:
   (A)   Submission requirements. All applications for property line adjustment
shall be made on forms provided by the city and shall include information
required for a administrative land use review, pursuant with §
151.232 Administrative Review. The application shall include a preliminary lot
line map drawn to scale identifying all existing and proposed lot lines and
dimensions; footprints and dimensions of existing structures (including
accessory structures); location and dimensions of driveways and public and
private streets within or abutting the subject lots; location of lands subject
to any flood hazard area overlay; existing fences and walls; and any other
information deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for ensuring compliance
with city codes. The application shall be signed by all of the owners as
appearing on the deeds of the subject lots.
   (B)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission shall approve or deny a
request for a property line adjustment in writing based on all of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Parcel creation. No additional parcel or lot is created by the lot
line adjustment;
      (2)   Lot standards. All resulting lots and parcels conform to the
applicable lot standards of the underlying zone, including lot area,
dimensions, setbacks, and coverage. As applicable, all lots and parcels shall
conform to any flood hazard area overlay requirements; and
      (3)   Access and road authority standards. All lots and parcels conform
to the standards or requirements of §
151.174(E), and all applicable road authority requirements are met. If a lot is
nonconforming to any city or road authority standard, it shall not be made less
conforming by the property line adjustment.
   (C)   Recording property line adjustments.
      (1)   Recording. Upon the city's approval of the proposed property line
adjustment, the applicant shall record the property line adjustment documents
with Washington County within 60 days of approval and submit a copy of the
recorded survey map to the city, to be filed with the approved application.
      (2)   Time limit. The city's approval of the property line adjustment
expires if not recorded within 60 days of approval. They applicant shall submit
a copy of the recorded property line adjustment survey map to the city within
15 days of recording and prior to any application being filed for a building
permits on the reconfigured lots.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.013 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of this chapter or a provision of any permit or land use
decision approved under the authority of this chapter is a civil infraction and
a nuisance, enforceable under the provisions of
chapter 37, Civil Enforcement, and any other lawful remedy or procedure,
including a suit for declaratory and injunctive relief in Circuit Court. The
city is entitled to recover its reasonable enforcement costs expended in any
such enforcement action to applicable fines and penalties.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.050 PRINCIPLES OF ACCEPTABILITY.
   A land division, whether by a subdivision, creation of a street, or a
partitioning, shall conform to any approved development plans, shall take into
consideration any preliminary plans made in anticipation thereof, and shall
conform to the design standards established by these regulations, the policies
and elements of the city's Comprehensive Plan, and any other ordinances or laws
not in conflict herewith. (Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.051 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The person making a land division shall have the responsibility of
providing the following improvements and pursuant to plans and specifications
as approved by the City Engineer and in conformance with the design standards
contained in this chapter:
      (1)   All street grading;
      (2)   Installation of roadway curbs and permanent roadway paving;
      (3)   Installation of facilities for proper storm drainage and erosion
control facilities;
      (4)   Installation of sidewalks;
      (5)   Sanitary sewers;
      (6)   Water mains;
      (7)   Street trees;
      (8)   Street lights; and
      (9)   Landscaping and other improvements of common areas, buffer areas,
playgrounds, trails entry features, and the like.
   (B)   The city shall not issue a building permit and shall withhold all
public improvements of whatsoever nature, including the maintenance of streets,
furnishing sewer facilities and water and electric services in all subdivisions
or partitions until adequate provision for the installation of the improvements
required shall have been made by the divider or his or her successor in
interest. The advance provisions for public improvements may include the
formation of a local improvement district, cash deposits, surety bonds, or
legally binding escrows sufficient to discharge the full amount of the
divider's liability for necessary and required facilities and improvements. The
advance provisions for other improvements may also include the bonds and other
binding agreements as may be acceptable to the city. In addition, the city may
require a maintenance bond or insurance to assure repair or replacement of
defective improvements within the subdivision up to 3 years after acceptance by
the city.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052 STREETS.
   (A)   Generally. All streets shall be dedicated to the public and shall be
constructed in accordance with the design standards of this chapter and the
Public Works Design Standards, unless otherwise approved. The location, width,
and grade of streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and to the proposed use of land to be served by the streets. The street system
shall assure an adequate traffic circulation system with intersection angles,
grades, tangents and curves appropriate for the traffic to be carried
considering the terrain. Street layout shall optimize solar access. Where
location is not shown in a development plan, the arrangement of streets shall
either:
      (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
collector or arterial streets in surrounding areas;
      (2)   Confirm to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
Planning Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impractical;
      (3)   Provide adequate pedestrian and bicycle access and circulation for
all neighborhood activity centers, including existing and planned schools,
parks, shopping areas, transit stops and employment centers; or
      (4)   Sidewalks, planter strips, and bicycle lanes shall be installed in
conformance with the street standards of the Public Works Design Standards.
Maintenance of sidewalks and planter strips in the right-of-way is the
continuing obligation of the adjacent property owner. Bikeways or bicycle lanes
shall be required along collectors. Sidewalks shall be required along
collectors.
   (B)   Minimum right-of-way and roadway width.
      (1)   Unless otherwise approved in accordance with the provisions below
or those of division (K) below, the street right-of-way and roadway widths
shall comply with the Public Works Design Standards.
   (C)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips or street plugs controlling access to
the street will not be approved unless necessary for the protection of the
public welfare or the substantial property rights and in these cases they may
be required. The control and disposal of the land comprising the strips shall
be placed within the jurisdiction of the city under conditions approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Future extensions of streets. Where necessary to or permit a
satisfactory future division of adjoining land, streets shall be extended to
the boundary of the subdivision or partition and the resulting dead-end streets
may be approved with a turn around. Reserve strips and street plugs may be
required to preserve the objectives of street extensions.
   (E)   Intersection angles. Streets may be laid out to intersect at angles as
near to right angles as practical except where topography requires a lesser
angle, but in no case shall the acute angle be less than 80 degrees unless
there is a special intersection design. An arterial or collector street
intersecting with another street shall have at least 100 feet of centerline
tangent adjacent to the intersection unless topography requires a lesser
distance. Other streets, except alleys, shall have at least 50 feet of tangent
adjacent to the intersection unless topography requires a lesser distance.
Intersections which contain an acute angle of less than 80 degrees or which
include an arterial or collectors street shall have a minimum corner radius
sufficient to allow for a roadway radius of 20 feet and maintain a uniform
width between the roadway radius of 10 feet and maintain a uniform width
between the roadway and the right-of-way line. Ordinarily, the intersection of
more than 2 streets at any 1 point will not be approved.
   (F)   Existing streets. Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within a
tract are of inadequate width, additional right-of-way shall be provided at the
time of the land division.
   (G)   Half streets. Half streets, while generally not acceptable, may be
approved where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision or
partition when in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations
and when the Planning Commission finds it will be practical to require the
dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is divided. Whenever a
half street is adjacent to a tract to be divided, the other half of the street
shall be provided within the tract. Reserve strips and street plugs may be
required to preserve the objectives of half streets.
   (H)   Cul-de-sac. A cul-de-sac shall be as short as possible and shall have
a maximum length of 400 feet and serve building site for not more than 18
dwelling units. A cul-de-sac shall terminate with a circular turnaround.
   (I)   Street names. Except for extensions of existing streets, no street
name shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with the name of an
existing street. Street names and numbers shall conform to the established plan
of the city and shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Streets adjacent to railroad right-of-way. Whenever the proposed land
division contains or is adjacent to a railroad right-of-way, provision may be
required for a street approximately parallel to and on each side of the right-
of-way at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the land between the
street and the railroad. The distance shall be determined with due
consideration at cross streets of the minimum distance required for approach
grade to a future grade separation and to provide sufficient depth to allow
screen planting along the railroad right-of-way.
      (1)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this chapter is to manage access
to land uses and on-site circulation, and to preserve the transportation system
in terms of safety, capacity, and function. This chapter applies to all public
streets within the City of Banks, and to all properties that abut these
roadways. This chapter implements the access management policies of the City
Transportation System Plan.
      (2)   Applicability. This chapter applies to all public streets within
the city and to all properties that abut these streets. The standards apply
when lots are created, consolidated, or modified through a land division,
partition, lot line adjustment, lot consolidation, or street vacation; and when
properties are subject to land use review or site design review.
      (3)   Access permit required. Access to a public street (e.g., a new curb
cut or driveway approach) requires an access permit. An access permit may be in
the form of a letter to the applicant, or it may be attached to a land use
decision notice as a condition of approval. In either case, approval of an
access permit shall follow the procedures and requirements of the applicable
road authority, as determined through the city's review procedures.
      (4)   Access to state highways. No new access shall be allowed to OR 6.
Any new access to OR 47 requires an ODOT-approved approach road permit.
   (K)   Creation of a sub-standard public or private street. The creation of a
street and the resultant separate land parcels, if any, shall be in conformance
with the requirements for subdivision, including the street design standards of
this section. However, the Planning Commission may approve the creation of a
public street or of a private street to be established by deed without full
compliance with the regulations applicable to subdivisions provided the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   The establishment of the public street is initiated by the City
Council and is declared essential for the purpose of general traffic
circulation and the partitioning of land is an incidental effect rather than
the primary objective of the street;
      (2)   The tract in which the street is to be dedicated is a major
partition within an isolated ownership either of not over 1 acre or of the size
and characteristics as to make it impossible to develop building sites for more
than 3 dwelling units;
      (3)   The street has been approved by the Fire Marshal and has been found
to provide adequate emergency vehicle access;
      (4)   The street has been found to provide adequate access for utilities;
and
      (5)   In the case of a private street, provisions have been made to
insure adequate maintenance of the street and any utilities within it.
   (L)   Functional classification. Development should reflect functional
classification of roadways as identified in the Banks Transportation System
Plan, including any bicycle, pedestrian or frontage requirements. There are no
rural lands in Banks.
   (M)   Off-site road improvements. Where off-site road improvements are
otherwise required as a condition of development approval, they shall include
facilities accommodating convenient pedestrian and bicycle travel, including
bicycle ways along arterials and major collectors and projects identified in
the Banks Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)    Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Generally. The length, width, and shape of blocks shall take into
account the need for adequate building site size and street width and shall
recognize the limitations of the topography.
   (B)   Size. No block shall be more than 1,200 feet in length between street
corner lines unless it is adjacent to an arterial street or unless the
topography or the location of adjoining streets justifies an exception. In
blocks over 600 feet in length, there shall be a crosswalk not less than 20
feet in width near the middle of the block. A block shall have sufficient width
to provide for 2 tiers of building sites unless topography or location of
adjoining street justifies an exception. In blocks over 600 feet in length, and
where appropriate at the end of cul-de-sacs, there shall be a dedicated public
way of not less than 10 feet in width for pedestrian access through the block,
or to provide access to school, parks, or other activity centers.
      (1)   All local and collector streets that stub into a development site
shall be extended within the site to provide through circulation unless
prevented by environmental or topographical constraints, existing development
patterns, or compliance with other standards in this code. This exception
applies when it is not possible to redesign or reconfigure the street pattern
to provide required extensions. Land is considered topographically constrained
if the slope is greater than 15% for a distance of 250 feet or more. In the
case of environmental or topographical constraints, the mere presence of a
constraint is not sufficient to show that a street connection is not possible.
The applicant must show why the environmental or topographic constraint
precludes some reasonable street connection.
      (2)   Street connectivity and formation of blocks. In order to promote
efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation throughout the city,
subdivisions and site developments of more than 2 acres shall be served by a
connecting network of public streets and/or accessways, in accordance with the
following standards (minimum and maximum distances between 2 streets or a
street and its nearest accessway):
         (a)   Residential zones. Minimum of 100 foot block length and maximum
of 600 foot length; maximum 1,600 feet block perimeter;
         (b)   Main Street area. Minimum of 100 foot length and maximum of 400
foot length; maximum 1,200 foot perimeter;
         (c)   Commercial zones (C and DC). Minimum of 100 foot length and
maximum of 600 foot length; maximum 1,600 foot perimeter;
         (d)   Not applicable to the Industrial Zone.
      (3)   Pedestrian/bicycle accessway standards. Where a street connection
in conformance with the maximum block length standards in division (B) is
impracticable, a pedestrian/bicycle accessway shall be provided at or near the
middle of a block in lieu of the street connection. The city may also require
developers to provide a pedestrian/bicycle accessway where a cul-de-sac or
other street is planned and the accessway would connect the streets or provide
a connection to other developments. Such access ways shall conform to all of
the following standards:
         (a)   If the streets within the subdivision or neighborhood are
lighted, all accessways in the subdivision shall be lighted. Accessway
illumination shall provide at least 2 foot candles;
         (b)   A right-of-way or public access easement provided in accordance
with division (a) that is less than 20 feet wide may be allowed on steep slopes
where the decision body finds that stairs, ramps, or switch-back paths are
required;
         (c)   All pedestrian/bicycle accessways shall conform to applicable
ADA requirements;
         (d)   The city may require landscaping as part of the required
accessway improvement to buffer pedestrians from adjacent vehicles, provided
that landscaping or fencing adjacent to the accessway does not exceed 4 feet in
height; and
         (e)   Which may be modified by the decision body without a variance
when the modification affords greater convenience or comfort for, and does not
compromise the safety of, pedestrians or bicyclists.
      (4)   Connections within development. Connections within developments
shall be provided as required in divisions (a) through (c), below:
         (a)   Walkways shall connect all building entrances to one another to
the extent practicable;
         (b)   Walkways shall connect all on-site parking areas, storage areas,
recreational facilities and common areas, and shall connect off-site adjacent
uses to the site to the extent practicable. Topographic or existing development
constraints may be cause for not making certain walkway connections; and
         (c)   Large parking areas shall be broken up so that no contiguous
parking area exceeds 3 acres. Parking areas may be broken up with plazas, large
landscape areas with pedestrian access ways (i.e., at least 20 feet total
width), streets, or driveways with street-like features, street-like features,
for the purpose of this section, means a raised sidewalk of at least 4 feet in
width, 6-inch curb, accessible curb ramps, street trees in planter strips or
tree wells, and pedestrian-oriented lighting.
   (C)   Easements. Pedestrian and bicycle ways. When desirable for public
convenience and access, a pedestrian or bicycle way easement may be required to
connect to a cul-de-sac or to pass through an unusually long or oddly shaped
block, or to otherwise provide appropriate circulation. To ensure safe, direct,
and convenient pedestrian circulation, all developments shall provide a
continuous pedestrian system. The pedestrian system shall be based on the
standards below:
      (1)   Continuous walkway system. The pedestrian walkway system shall
extend throughout the development site and connect to all future phases of
development, and to existing or planned off-site adjacent trails, public parks,
and open space areas to the greatest extent practicable. The developer may also
be required to connect or stub walkway(s) to adjacent streets and to private
property with a previously reserved public access easement for this purpose.
      (2)   Safe, direct, and convenient walkways within developments shall
provide safe, reasonably direct, and convenient connections between primary
building entrances and all adjacent streets, based on the following
definitions:
         (a)   REASONABLY DIRECT. A route that does not deviate unnecessarily
from a straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of
out-of- direction travel for likely users.
         (b)   SAFE AND CONVENIENT. Routes that are reasonably free from
hazards and provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destinations.
         (c)   PRIMARY ENTRANCE for commercial, industrial, mixed use, public,
and institutional buildings is the main public entrance to the building. In the
case where no public entrance exists, street connections shall be provided to
the main employee entrance.
         (d)   PRIMARY ENTRANCE for residential buildings is the front door
(i.e., facing the street). For multi-family buildings in which each unit does
not have its own exterior entrance, the "primary entrance" may be a lobby,
courtyard, or breezeway which serves as a common entrance for more than one
dwelling.
      (3)   Connections within development. Connections within developments
shall be provided as required in divisions (a) through (c), below:
         (a)   Walkways shall connect all building entrances to one another to
the extent practicable.
         (b)   Walkways shall connect all on-site parking areas, storage areas,
recreational facilities, and common areas, and shall connect off-site adjacent
uses to the site to the extent practicable. Topographic or existing development
constraints may be cause for not making certain walkway connections.
         (c)   Large parking areas shall be broken up so that no contiguous
parking area exceeds 3 aces. Parking areas may be broken up with plazas, large
landscape areas with pedestrian access ways (i.e., at least 20 feet total
width), streets or driveways with street-like features, street-like features
for the purpose of this section, means a raised sidewalk of at least 4 feet in
width, 6-inch curb, accessible curb ramps, street trees in planter strips or
tree wells, and pedestrian-oriented lighting.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.054 BUILDING SITES.
   (A)   Size and shape. The size, width, shape, and orientation of building
sites shall be appropriate for the location of the land division and for the
type of development and use contemplated, and shall be consistent with the
residential lot size provisions of the zoning ordinance and Comprehensive Plan
with the following exceptions.
      (1)   In areas that will not be served by a public sewer, minimum lot and
parcel sizes shall permit compliance with the requirements of the Department of
Environmental Quality and shall take into consideration problem of sewage
disposal, particularly problems of soil structure and water table as related to
sewage disposal by subsurface or other means.
      (2)   Where property is zoned and planned for business or industrial use,
other widths and areas may be permitted at the discretion of the Planning
Commission. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for off-street parking and
service facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated.
   (B)   Access. Each lot and parcel shall abut upon a street other than an
alley for a width of at least 20 feet.
   (C)   Through lots and parcels. Through lots and parcels shall be avoided
except where they are essential to provide separation of development from major
traffic arterials or adjacent incompatible activities or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement at
least 5 feet wide and across which there shall be no right of access may be
required along the line of building sites abutting such a traffic artery or
other incompatible use.
   (D)   Lot and parcel side lines. The lines of lots and parcels, as far as is
practicable, shall run at right angles to the street upon which they face,
except that on curves streets they shall be radial to the curve.
   (E)   Flag lots.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.055 GRADING OF BUILDING SITES.
   Grading of building sites, and excavation of the placement of fill, shall
conform to the requirements of
Chapter 70 of the Uniform Building Code, hereby adopted by reference, and to
the following standards, unless physical conditions demonstrate the propriety
of other standards or methods of grading, including but not limited to,
retaining walls, stabilized slopes, and vegetative cover:
   (A)    Finish and fill cut slopes shall not exceed 1 foot vertically to 2
feet horizontally; and
   (B)   The character of soil for fill and the characteristics of lots and
parcels made usable by fill shall be suitable for the purpose intended.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056 BUILDING LINES.
   If building setback lines in excess of those set forth in the City Zoning
Ordinance are to be established in a subdivision, they shall be included in the
deed restrictions.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 LARGE BUILDING SITES.
   In dividing tracts into large lots or parcels which at some future time are
likely to be again divided, the Planning Commission may require that the blocks
be of the size and shape, be so divided into building sites and contain the
site restrictions as will provide for extension and opening of streets at
intervals which will permit a subsequent division of any tract into lots or
parcels of smaller size.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.058 LAND FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.
   (A)   Land subject to flooding, wetland, or land adjacent to a street,
highway, or other incompatible land use, or environmentally sensitive or
unusual terrain unsuitable as a park or recreation area, and unsuitable for
real estate development or improvement shall be preserved for its proper use as
flood control land or open space and dedicated to the public for the use. The
Planning Commission shall also require a dedication of land for public park and
recreation purposes. The public park dedication shall not exceed 15% of the
buildable land area within the subdivision.
   (B)   Where a park playground, school, or other public use is determined to
be needed in whole or in part within a subdivision, to carry out the goals and
policies of the Banks Comprehensive Plan, the subdivider shall dedicate and
reserve adequate space for the purpose, provided however, that the city or
other public authority shall thereupon declare its intention to utilize the
area within the land division when the Planning Commission finds the
requirements to be reasonably necessary for the public health and safety. Where
the city or other public authority has declared its intention to acquire the
area, it shall proceed to perfect the title or a contract right to the same
within 3 years from the date of platting, and failing such, this reservation
shall automatically expire. The public body shall expeditiously proceed, within
its financial ability, to consummate the acquisitions.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.059 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   All utilities shall be installed underground unless otherwise approved by
the Planning Commission. Plans and specifications for public improvements are
subject to approval by the City Engineer. Where feasible, water mains shall be
looped. Sizing and spacing of waterlines and fire hydrants is subject to review
by the Fire Chief. In addition, sanitary sewer facilities, storm drainage and
erosion control facilities are subject to approval by the Unified Sewerage
District. Erosion control measures are required in accordance with City of
Banks Resolution No. 12-89.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.060 STREET TREES.
   Street trees shall be installed by the subdivider at a spacing of 30 feet on
center within the parking strip of all streets. Species and size of proposed
street trees shall be indicated on a landscaping plan to be submitted as part
of the tentative subdivision plan.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.061 VEHICLE STORAGE AREA.
   In subdivisions of more than 20 dwelling units, the Planning Commission may
require that a common area be set aside for the storage of vehicles such as
recreational vehicle, boats, trailers, or vehicle in excess of the number of
vehicles for which adequate off-street parking space has been otherwise
provided.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
EXCEPTION AND VARIANCES
§ 152.075 VARIANCE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission or City Council, as the case may be, may
authorize condition variances to requirements of these regulations. Application
for a variance shall be made by a petition of the land divider, stating fully
the grounds of the application and the facts relied upon by the petitioner. The
petition shall be filed with the tentative plan.
   (B)   A variance may be granted only in the event that all of the following
circumstances exist.
      (1)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property
which do not apply generally to other properties in the same vicinity, and
result from tract size or shape, topography of other circumstances over which
the owners of property since enactment of this chapter have had no control.
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right
of the application substantially the same, as owners of other property in the
same vicinity possess.
      (3)   The variance would not be materially detrimental to the purposes of
this chapter, or to property in the same vicinity in which the property is
located or otherwise conflict with the objectives of any city plan or policy.
      (4)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would
alleviate the hardship.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.076 ACTION ON VARIANCES.
   In granting or denying a variance, the Planning Commission shall make a
written record of its findings and the facts in connection therewith, and shall
describe the variances granted and the conditions designated. The city shall
keep the findings on file as a matter of public record.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.090 APPROVING AGENCY.
   The City Planner and City Planning Commission shall review, recommend, and
approve or disapprove land division plans and shall administer the provisions
of these regulations. Whenever a land division plan is disapproved, a similar
application cannot be submitted for the property following a 6-month period
from the disapproval date, unless the reason(s) for the denial has been
corrected by the applicant. The corrected application will be considered as a
new application.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.091 APPEAL.
   An action or ruling of the City Planner or the Planning Commission
authorized by this chapter may be appealed to the Planning Commission or City
Council respectively by filing written notice of appeal with the City Recorder
within 10 days after the City Planner or Planning Commission has rendered its
decision. If no appeal is taken within the 10-day period, the decision of the
Planning Commission or City Council shall receive a report and recommendation
from the City Planner or Planning Commission and shall hold a public hearing on
the appeal of the public hearing shall be by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.092 FORMS OF PETITIONS, APPLICATIONS, AND APPEALS.
   Petitions, applications, and appeals provided for in these regulations shall
be made on forms provided for this purpose or as otherwise prescribed by the
Planning Commission in order to assure the fullest practical presentation of
pertinent facts and to maintain a permanent record.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.093 HEARINGS.
   Notice of the purpose and time and place of any public hearing required by
these regulations shall be given by the City Recorder in the following manner.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing shall be mailed not less than 10 days prior
to the hearing to owners of property within 250 feet of the boundaries of the
area proposed to be partitioned or subdivided. The list of property owners
shall be based on records at the Washington County Department of Assessment and
Taxation.
   (B)   In addition, notices shall be posted at 1 or more locations in the
city, including City Hall and the site proposed to be partitioned or
subdivided, at least 10 days prior to the hearing.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500 in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains the violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking the other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2021-08-02, passed 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s comprehensive plan is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 154: UNIFORM HOUSE NUMBERING AND STREET IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Methodology
   
154.03   Adoption of uniform addressing system
   
154.04   New streets
   
154.05   Street naming process
   
154.06   Street name standards
   
154.07   Street name pool
   
154.08   Existing 3-digit address conversions
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt a uniform system for assigning
addresses and approving street names consistent with the “Washington County
Uniform House Numbering and Street Identification Regulations.”
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.02 METHODOLOGY.
   The methodology used to assign address numbers and approve street names is
shown in the following §§
154.03 through
154.07. Each developed and platted parcel (residential, commercial and
industrial) will have an address assigned to the primary building. No address
will be assigned to an accessory structure, or vacant parcel, or adjoining
parcels that are part of the same development. If more than 1 single family
detached dwelling is permanently constructed on a single parcel, each dwelling
shall be assigned a separate address.
   (A)   Residential buildings developed with attached duplex, triplex, or
fourplex dwellings for rent or lease will be assigned 1 building address for
each individual dwelling, which will be designated A, B, C, or D according to
the housing type; except that residential buildings developed with attached
duplex, triplex, or fourplex dwellings held “in condominium” will be assigned 1
address per building for each individual dwelling, which will also be
designated Unit 100, 101, 102, etc. (first floor) or Unit 200, 201, 202, etc.
(second floor).
   (B)   Residential buildings developed with more than 4 attached dwellings
for rent or lease will be assigned 1 address per building for each individual
dwelling, which will also be designated Apartment 100, 101, 102, etc. (first
floor) or Apartment 200, 201, 202, etc. (second floor), except that residential
buildings developed with more than 4 attached dwellings held “in condominium”
will be assigned 1 address per building for each individual dwelling, which
will also be designated Unit 100, 101, 102, etc. (first floor) or Unit 200,
201, 202, etc. (second floor).
   (C)   Commercial/industrial buildings developed with more than 1 tenant per
building for rent or lease will be assigned 1 address per building for each
tenant, which will also be designated Suite 100, 101, 102, etc. (first floor)
or Suite 200, 201, 202, etc. (second floor), except that commercial/industrial
buildings developed with more than 1 separately owned unit “in condominium”
will be assigned 1 address per building for each individual separate unit,
which will also be designated Unit 100, 101, 102, etc. (first floor) or Unit
200, 201, 202, etc. (second floor).
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.03 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Washington County House Numbering and Street Identification System
is extended to cover the City of Banks.
      (1)   The address numbering system shall be based on:
         (a)   Two thousand numbers to the mile; and
         (b)   The numbers to be an extension of and consistent with, the
Washington County 5-digit numbering grid system; and
         (c)   Five-digit even numbers on the east and south sides of a street
(easterly or southerly side of diagonal or meandering streets); and 5-digit odd
numbers on the west and north sides of a street (westerly or northerly side of
diagonal or meandering streets); and
         (d)   Base line to be the county- designated division between the
northwest and southwest sections (all 5-digit addresses in Banks are in the
northwest quadrant).
      (2)   The street identification system is based on:
         (a)   North/south streets are named as an extension of the present
(upon adoption of this chapter) City of Banks or Washington County named north/
south streets, whichever the case or when practicable and in conformance with §
154.06 street name standards;
         (b)   East/west streets are named as an extension of the present (upon
adoption of this chapter) City of Banks or Washington County named east/west
streets, whichever the case or when practicable and in conformance with §
154.06 street name standards.
   (B)   The adoption of the uniform house numbering and street identification
system will be universal over the incorporated areas within the City of Banks.
Address signs shall be provided on the front of the building to be plainly
visible and legible from the street fronting the property. Addressing numbers
shall contrast with their background color and comply with the addressing
requirements (except that for existing 5-digit addressing signage that is
nonconforming, it will not be required to be brought into compliance with this
chapter unless the sign is structurally altered, relocated, or replaced with a
different type or size of sign subsequent to adoption of this chapter)
described as follows:
      (1)   Single family, duplex, triplex and fourplex dwellings. Address
numbers shall be a minimum 4 inches in height, 0.5-inch stroke, and 80 inches
above grade and be visible from the curbside fronting the door.
      (2)   Apartment dwellings. A site map shall be provided at all vehicle
entrances to the complex. The address of the complex and each building shall be
noted on this map. Apartment buildings shall be identified as indicated for
flag lots and commercial/industrial buildings, with markings visible from
avenues of vehicular approach. Individual apartment units shall be identified
with the apartment number. When these markings are not visible from the street,
additional signage identifying apartment locations is required.
      (3)   Commercial/industrial buildings. Address numbers shall be a minimum
of 4 inches in height and 0.5-inch stroke and placed on the portion of the
building closest to the fronting street at a height not to be blocked by view
from the street (minimum 80 inches above grade).
      (4)   Construction sites. Address signs shall be provided at each
entrance to the site. If there are multiple buildings being constructed, than a
temporary site map showing the location and address of each building shall also
be provided.
      (5)   Flag lots. When a building or dwelling is not visible from the
street, a legible address sign shall be posted at the entrance leading to the
property as well as on the building or residence.
      (6)   Fire Department connections (FDC). FDCs shall be identified with a
permanent all-weather sign indicating the addresses the connection serves.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision, upon written request and
justification by the City of Banks, the County Surveyor may approve the
addressing by the city on the city’s addressing grid, within unincorporated
areas of Washington County that are located within the city’s Urban Growth
Boundary.
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.04 NEW STREETS.
   (A)   All new streets, including private streets, created by a subdivision
or partitioning process will be designated and approved by the City of Banks in
accordance with the standards of this title and shall become effective on
recording of a final plat.
   (B)   Any new street not created by a subdivision or major partition and
created by a public dedication may be named by the deed of dedication, and will
become effective upon recording of the deed of dedication and in accordance
with §
154.05 and other relevant standards of this chapter.
   (C)   All streets named will conform to the standards as specified in §
154.06.
   (D)   Privately owned streets, not designated as right-of-way, are subject
to the same street name standards as are public streets. All private street
signs will be provided at the owner(s)’ expense and addresses will be assigned
by the city as delineated in §§
154.03 through 154.008.
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.05 STREET NAMING PROCESS.
   (A)   Action to name a new street, other than streets identified under §
154.04, or rename an existing public street in the City of Banks may be
initiated by the City Council:
      (1)   On its own action; or
      (2)   If a person files a petition as described in this section
accompanied by a fee reasonably related to the costs of the process as required
by resolution of the City Council, and if the petition is accepted by the City
Council.
   (B)   Petition for naming or renaming a public street will include the
following:
      (1)   A statement of the reason(s) for the proposed street name or street
name change;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all persons owning any real property
currently addressed from, or having the potential of being addressed from, the
street proposed to be named or renamed;
      (3)   Signatures of 70% of the owners of land currently addressed from,
or having the potential of being addressed from, the subject street;
      (4)   If 100% of the persons identified in division (B)(2) above sign the
petition, the notice and public hearing provided for in division (C) below may
be waived by the City Council.
      (5)   For the purposes of this section, OWNER is defined as the record
holder of legal title to the land, except that, if there is a purchaser of the
land according to a recorded land sale contract, the purchaser is the owner. If
there are multiple owners, all owners must sign the petition. In the case of
multiple owners, for petition purposes, they will be considered as 1 owner.
   (C)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   When a proceeding has been initiated under this section, the City
Council will establish a date, time, and place certain for a hearing to
consider whether the proposed street name change is in the public interest.
      (2)   At least 10 days prior to the date of hearing, notice of the
proposed name or name change will be provided as follows:
         (a)   Notice by first-class mail to the property owners currently
addressed from or having the potential of being addressed from, the subject
street;
         (b)   All occupants at the situs addresses on the subject street;
         (c)   Affected service agencies as identified under §
154.05(C)(5) below; and
         (d)   Notice by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
designated by the City Council in the area of the City of Banks.
      (3)   During or before a hearing under this section, any person may file
information with the City Recorder that alleges any new matter relevant to the
proceedings or controverts any matter presented to the City Council.
      (4)   After the hearing has been closed, the City Council shall determine
whether the name or name change would conform with the street naming standards
or otherwise serve the public interest, and adopt a resolution granting or
denying the request.
      (5)   The City Council shall cause the resolution to be recorded by the
City Recorder, who shall cause copies of the resolution to be filed with the
Washington County Department of Assessment and Taxation, County Surveyor, Banks
Post Office, Washington County Communications Systems Office, County Sheriffs
Department, Banks Fire District #13, Banks School District #13, Washington
County Cooperative Library System, Washington County Elections Office,
Washington County Clean Water Services Special Service District, PGE, NW
Natural, Comcast Communications, Frontier Communications and other public
service/utility agencies, and assigns.
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.06 STREET NAME STANDARDS.
   (A)   In addition to complying with the requirements of §
154.03, all streets named or renamed will comply with the following criteria:
      (1)   Collector streets, local roads and highways (arterials) shall
maintain a common name or number for the entire alignment inside the corporate
limits of Banks.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, historical family names will be utilized or
retained and be subject to the considerations as outlined in §
154.07 below.
      (3)   Hyphenated, multiple words, or other exceptionally long names will
be avoided.
      (4)   No street will be given a name that is the same as, similar to, or
pronounced the same as, any other street within the jurisdiction of the City of
Banks unless that street is an extension of an already-named street (§
154.06(A)(1) refers and prevails).
      (5)   Consideration will be given to the continuation of the name of a
street in another jurisdiction when it is extended into the City of Banks.
      (6)   Names that are difficult to pronounce or spell will be avoided.
      (7)   Abbreviated street names will not be allowed.
      (8)   Priority shall be given to names listed in the street name pool as
described in §
154.07 below.
      (9)   All proposed street names will be reviewed, prior to use, by the
city staff to determine whether the proposed street names comply with the
standards and classifications set forth in this chapter (§
154.06 refers and prevails).
   (B)   The following classifications (suffixes) will be utilized in the
assignment of new street names:
      (1)   Boulevard: major north/south street providing through traffic
movement across the community;
      (2)   Road: major east/west street providing through traffic movement
across the community;
      (3)   Avenue: continuous, north/south thoroughfare or extension thereof;
      (4)   Street: continuous east/west thoroughfare or extension thereof;
      (5)   Lane: short east/west street under 1,000 feet in length;
      (6)   Terrace: short north/south street under 1,000 feet in length;
      (7)   Drive: curvilinear thoroughfare (less than 180 degrees) at least
1,000 feet in length;
      (8)   Court: east/west cul-de-sac;
      (9)   Place: north/south cul-de-sac;
      (10)   Way: loop street (exceeding 180 degrees);
      (11)   Parkway: a broad landscaped thoroughfare.
   (C)   The City Council may grant an exception to the street name standards
specified under divisions (A) and (B) above on a case-by-case basis and subject
to the hearing provisions of §
154.05.
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.07 STREET NAME POOL.
   (A)   Whenever practicable, historical family names will be considered in
the naming or renaming of public or private streets. Factors to be considered
will include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Original holders of donation land claims in the City of Banks or
Washington County;
      (2)   Early homesteaders or settlers of the City of Banks or Washington
County;
      (3)   Heirs of original settlers or long-time (minimum 75 years)
residents of the City of Banks or Washington County;
      (4)   Explorers of, or having to do with, the City of Banks or Washington
County;
      (5)   Native American tribes of the City of Banks or Washington County;
      (6)   Early leaders and pioneers of eminence of the City of Banks or
Washington County.
   (B)   The City Council shall adopt a street name pool by resolution, and the
city staff shall maintain the street name pool containing an acceptable list of
street names based on the historical factors shown above. Names listed in the
street name pool shall be given priority for assigning names to new streets or
the renaming of streets.
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
§ 154.08 EXISTING 3-DIGIT ADDRESS CONVERSIONS.
   In order to be consistent with, and effectively implement, the uniform house
numbering and street identification system, all existing 3-digit addresses in
Banks will be converted to 5-digit addresses according to the requirements of §
154.03 and assigned the “Northwest (NW)” prefix designation.
(Ord. 2012-05-01, passed 5-8-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
95     2-8-   Setting public hearing on question of property being annexed to city
       1966
97     3-8-   Property annexed to city
       1966
99     7-15-  Setting public hearing on question of property being annexed to city
       1966
100    8-9-   Property annexed to city
       1966
104    4-8-   Withdrawing certain annexed territory from the Tri-City Rural Fire
       1969   Protection District
100901 11-13- Annexing a certain tract of land into the city limits
       2001
111301 11-13- Amending Urban Planning Area Agreement to add land within the city’s
       2001   Unincorporated Urban Planning Area
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Amend comprehensive plan and zoning map from Future Urban
-        10-12-1995  to General Commercial on 3 acres located behind the Oak
                     Village Shopping Center; PA/ZC 3-95
-        1-28-1997   Amend comprehensive plan and zoning map from Community
                     Facility to Multi-Family Residential, R2.5; PA/ZC 8-96
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Code Section
O.R.S.                Code Section
18.901 et seq.        95.01
18.901                95.01
18.904                95.03
18.906                95.03
18.908                95.03
18.930                95.03
18.995                95.01
34.010–34.100       33.13 ,
                      40.08
82.010                100.13
86.740                95.03
86.740–86.755       95.01,
                      95.03
87.152                93.04
87.152–87.212       93.04
91.255                50.10
                      152.003 ,
Chapter 92            152.007 ,
                      152.009 ,
                      152.010
92.010–92.190       152.010
98.810–98.812       70.47
109.550–109.565     130.32
133.005               130.05
153                   70.02
161                   130.01
162                   130.01
163                   130.01
164                   130.01
165                   130.01
166                   130.01
167                   130.01
167.117               113.01
167.310(4)            91.08
183                   96.06,
                      110.06
190                   114.01
190.240               112.003
192.010–192.607     32.50
192.610 – 192.690   32.06,
                      32.30
192.610–192.710     32.50
                      30.35,
                      30.36,
197                   30.49,
                      39.04,  
                      96.02
197.015               151.231
197.665               151.036
197.763               32.30
197.805–197.860     151.233
203.040               91.01 ,
                      114.01
221.515               103.12
221.655               100.12
222                   30.05
223                   34.02
223.205–223.295     33.09
223.297–223.314     33.01,
                      33.13
223.387               34.01
223.505–223.595     37.09
227                   39.04,
                      96.02
227.010 – 227.090   32.30
227.175               32.30,
                      151.234
                      151.232,
227.178               151.233,
                      151.234,
                      151.235
227.180               151.233
227.186               151.234
Chapter 233           50.05
Chapter 271           152.011
279                   36.09
279A–279C           32.15,
                      36.01
279A.120              36.08
279B.065              36.06
279B.070              36.07,
                      36.10
279B.075              36.10
279B.075(1)           36.09
279B.075(2)           36.09
279B.080              36.10
279B.085              36.10
279B.135              36.10
279C.100–279C.125   36.03
279C.110              36.03
279C.360(1)           36.05
279C.370              36.08
279C.800–270C.870   36.08
283.140               112.003
294.331               32.25
311.560               95.07
357.621               32.11
366.332               111.02
401.025               112.003
431                   Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
431.110               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
431.150               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
448                   Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
448.131               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
448.150               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
448.268               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
448.271               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2
448.273               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2,
                      Exhibit 3
448.279               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2
448.295               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2
448.300               Ch. 51, Exhibit 2
Chapters 459 and 459A 104.08
Chapter 459           104.12
459.005               104.03
459.250               104.08
459A.005-459A.085     104.08
459A.700 to 459A.740  104.03
466.005               104.03
Chapter 475           151.080
475.005               130.40
481.345 et seq        104.06
Chapter 659A          104.12
Chapter 654           104.12
Chapter 656           104.12
674                   30.36
757.542 et seq.       100.06
757.805               100.08
758.025               100.04
758.470               100.14
759.005               100.01,
                      112.003
759.010               112.003
801–822             70.02
811.610–811.630     70.28
818.010               96.02
818.080               96.02
818.105               96.02
818.220               96.02
819.210–819.260     93.04
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2002-13  6-11-2002   102.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Code Section
95               2-8-1966    TSO I
97               3-8-1966    TSO I
99               7-15-1966   TSO I
100              8-9-1966    TSO I
104              4-8-1969    TSO I
1-1-85           12-11-1984  34.01–
                             34.18
                             150.01–
30.01            1-8-1991    150.11,
                             150.99
40.01            1-8-1991    93.01–
                             93.10
                             130.01 –
                             130.22,
                             130.24–
60.01            1-8-1991    130.31,
                             130.36 –
                             130.39,
                             130.99
                             70.01–
80.01            1-8-1991    70.46,
                             70.99
                             50.02–
                             50.04,
                             50.06–
90.01            1-8-1991    50.09,
                             50.11–
                             50.22,
                             50.99
-                10-12-1995  TSO II
                             33.01-
12-19-3-95       12-19-1995  33.19,
                             33.99
12-19.2-95       12-19-1995  150.25
8-10-96          8-14-1996   30.21
                             94.01–
-                1-16-1997   94.04,
                             94.06–
                             94.09
-                1-28-1997   TSO II
011299           1-29-1999   102.01
91499-1          10- -1999   102.01
080800           9-12-2000   50.23
102500           10-25-2000  30.01–
                             30.06
                             92.01–
100.01           11-13-2001  92.16,
                             92.99
100901           11-13-2001  TSO I
111301           11-13-2001  TSO I
                             91.01-
61.01            1-8-2002    91.10,
                             91.99
80.7.1           11-12-2003  50.07
80.14.2          11-12-2003  50.13
10.050           1-11-2005   30.35-
                             30.49
2007-10.99(A)    2-13-2007   10.99
2007-10.100      2-13-2007   10.19
2007-10.101      2-13-2007   10.20
2007-32.15–32.22-13-2007   32.15
2007-70.29       2-13-2007   70.29
2007-70.34       2-13-2007   70.34
2007-91.01       2-13-2007   91.01
2007-130.05      2-13-2007   130.05
2007-130.06      2-13-2007   130.06
2007-130.07      2-13-2007   130.07
2007-130.17      2-13-2007   130.17
2007-130.24      2-13-2007   130.24
2007-130.36      2-13-2007   130.32
2007-130.37      2-13-2007   130.33
2007-130.38      2-13-2007   130.34
2007-130.39      2-13-2007   130.35
130.05(B)        6-13-2007   130.05
                             112.001–
                             112.011,
                             112.020–
                             112.023,
                             112.030–
                             112.044,
2007-06-01       6-12-2007   112.050–
                             112.054,
                             112.060–
                             112.077,
                             112.090–
                             112.099,
                             112.999
2007-06-02       6-12-2007   Adopting Ordinance
                             111.01–
2007-06-03       6-12-2007   111.07,
                             111.99
                             104.01–
2007-11-02       11-13-2007  104.17,
                             Ch. 104 Apps. A,
                             B
                             51.01–
2007-11-04       11-13-2007  51.08,
                             Ch. 51, Exhibits 1–
                             3
2008-02-01       2-12-2008   70.45
2008-02-02       2-12-2008   70.40
2008-02-03       2-12-2008   70.47
2008-02-04       2-12-2008   93.08
2008-02-05       2-12-2008   32.25
2008-04-01       4-8-2008    101.01–
                             101.12
                             50.06,
                             50.09,
2008-08-01       8-12-2008   50.12,
                             50.16,
                             50.20,
                             50.23
2008-10-01       10-14-2008  10.01
2008-10-02       10-14-2008  35.01–
                             35.04
2009-01-02       1-13-2009   130.99
2009-08-01       8-11-2009   91.11,
                             91.99
2010-01-01       1-12-2010   130.99
2010-03-01       3-9-2010    100.01–
                             100.27
                             100.01–
                             100.27,
                             101.01–
                             101.12,
2010-04-01       5-13-2010   102.01,
                             104.01–
                             104.17,
                             Ch. 104 Apps. A,
                             B
2010-05-01       5-13-2010   32.01–
                             32.11
2011-01-01       1-11-2011   104.03
                             94.01–
2011-10-01       10-11-2011  94.04,
                             94.06–
                             94.09
                             50.02,
2011-11-01       11-8-2011   50.04,
                             50.05
2012-05-01       5-8-2012    154.01–
                             154.08
2012-07-01       7-10-2012   91.12,
                             92.14
                             104.01–
2012-11-01       11-13-2012  104.17,
                             Ch. 104 Apps. A,
                             B
2013-04-01       4-9-2013    50.19
2013-04-02       4-9-2013    70.19
2013-06-02       6-11-2013   32.30
                             32.35–
                             32.40,
2013-08-01       8-13-2013   92.01–
                             92.16,
                             92.99
2013-08-02       8-13-2013   36.01–
                             36.12
2013-09-01       9-10-2013   94.03
2013-12-01       12-10-2013  70.14
                             37.01–
2014-05-02       5-13-2014   37.09 ,
                             90.01–
                             90.07
2014-06-01       6-10-2014   130.09
                             38.01–
2014-06-02       6-10-2014   38.11 ,
                             38.99
                             90.08,
2014-10-01       11-11-2014  95.01–
                             95.08,
                             130.04
2014-10-03       11-11-2014  Ch. 104, App. B
                             50.07,
2014-12-03       1-13-2015   50.08,
                             50.10
2015-03-02       4-14-2015   130.03
2015-06-02       7-14-2015   151.085
2015-07-01       8-11-2015   70.19
2015-07-02       8-11-2015   10.21
2015-08-01       9-8-2015    102.01
2015-11-01       12-8-2015   32.50
2016-01-01       2-9-2016    50.23
                             94.04,
2016-01-02       2-9-2016    94.06–
                             94.09
                             32.01–
                             32.06,
2016-04-01       5-10-2016   32.11,
                             32.25,
                             32.30,
                             32.39
2016-07-02       8-9-2016    110.01–
                             110.07
2016-08-01       9-13-2016   96.01–
                             96.08
2016-09-01       10-11-2016  113.01
2016-09-02       10-11-2016  114.01
2016-12-01       2-10-2017   70.19
2016-12-02       2-10-2017   90.09
2017-06-02       7-13-2017   90.03,
                             96.05
                             39.01–
2018-04-01       5-8-2018    39.14,
                             150.99
2018-06-01       8-14-2018   32.36
                             70.03,
2018-06-02       8-14-2018   70.04,
                             70.14,
                             70.19
                             50.01,
2018-10-01       12-11-2018  50.30,
                             50.31,
                             50.36
2018-11-01       12-11-2018  70.46,
                             70.99
2019-08-01       9-10-2019   130.04
2019-10-01       11-12-2019  130.04
2019-11-01       2-11-2020   40.01 –
                             40.09
2019-12-01       1-14-2020   33.01–
                             33.13
2020-06-01       7-14-2020   32.30
                             151.001 –
                             151.010,
                             151.020 –
                             151.025,
                             151.035 –
                             151.038,
                             151.050 –
                             151.054,
                             151.065,
                             151.075 –
                             151.085,
                             151.095 –
                             151.098,
                             151.110,
                             151.111,
                             151.125 –
                             151.127,
                             151.140 –
                             151.142,
                             151.155 –
                             151.157,
                             151.170 –
                             151.178,
                             151.190 –
                             151.192,
                             151.205,
                             151.215 –
2021-08-02       10-12-2021  151.218,
                             151.230 –
                             151.238,
                             151.250 –
                             151.256,
                             151.270 –
                             151.273,
                             151.285 –
                             151.288,
                             151.300 –
                             151.306,
                             151.320 –
                             151.324,
                             151.335 –
                             151.344,
                             151.355,
                             151.365 –
                             151.380,
                             151.999,
                             152.001 –
                             152.013,
                             152.050 –
                             152.061,
                             152.075,
                             152.076,
                             152.090 –
                             152.093,
                             152.999
2021-10-01       11-9-2021   32.50
                             50.30 –
2021-12-01       1-11-2022   50.36,
                             50.99
2022-07-01       8-9-2022    103.01 –
                             103.20
2022-08-02       9-13-2022   70.14,
                             70.19
2022-08-03       9-13-2022   93.02
2022-08-04       9-13-2022   90.08,
                             90.09
2022-12-01       1-10-2023   32.35–
                             32.39
2023-05-01       7-11-2023   50.04
2023-05-02       6-13-2023   50.05,
                             50.10
2023-07-03       8-8-2023    151.355
2023-10-01       10-12-2023  104.09
                            
 
