CITY OF CASCADE LOCKS, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 460, passed 11-25-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 432
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF CASCADE LOCKS MUNICIPAL CODE AS REVISED,
REFORMATTED, INDEXED, CODIFIED, COMPILED AND EDITED.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Cascade
Locks are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oregon empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinance into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing, in its efforts to promote better and
more efficient municipal government, is willing to undertake the codification
of the City's ordinances;
   THE CITY OF CASCADE LOCKS, HOOD RIVER COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the City of Cascade Locks as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances for the City of Cascade Locks,
State of Oregon".
   SECTION 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles as Shown on Exhibit A.
   SECTION 3. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of the
Code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Code. The
Council declares that it would have passed this Code, and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases have been
declared invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this Code should be
declared invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances
shall be in full force and effect.
   SECTION 4. This ordinance shall take effect on the 30th day following its
enactment.
 
FIRST READING by the City Council this 24th day of March, 2014.
SECOND READING AND ADOPTED by the City Council this 14th day of April, 2014.
ATTEST:       Kathy Woosley /s/      Tom Cramblett /s/
         City Recorder         Mayor
Ayes 7;
Nays 0.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “City Code of
Cascade Locks,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cascade Locks,
Oregon.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Hood River County, Oregon.
      GOVERNING BODY.  The City Council of Cascade Locks.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 180,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   CITY POLICIES
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Deadlines for setting for filing for candidacy
   
30.02   Personnel system
City Officials
   
30.15   City Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 DEADLINES FOR SETTING FOR FILING FOR CANDIDACY.
   (A)   Designated city filing deadline. The city will set a deadline to file
for candidacy with the City Recorder of not less than one regular, single
working day and not more than two regular, single working days prior to the
filing deadline date set by state law.
   (B)   Notification of potential candidates. Notification of the opportunity
to file for candidacy for Mayor or City Council positions shall be placed on
the local access CATV channel and shall be posted at the City Hall offices. All
such notifications shall clearly state the city’s deadline for filing with the
City Recorder’s office.
   (C)   Effective date. This section was effective on October 9, 1996.
(Ord. 325, passed 8-9-1996)
§ 30.02 PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Title. The title of this section shall be “The Personnel Section of
the City of Cascade Locks.”
   (B)   Purpose. This section is adopted to establish an equitable and uniform
procedure for dealing with personnel matters; to attract to municipal service
and to retain the best and most competent persons available; to assure that
appointments and promotions of employees will be based on merit and fitness;
and to provide a reasonable degree of job security for qualified employees.
   (C)   Adoption of amendment of rules. Personnel rules shall be adopted and
amended by resolution of the City Council. The rules shall provide means to
recruit, select, develop and maintain an effective and responsive work force,
and shall include policies and procedures for employee hiring and advancement,
training and career development, job classification, salary, administration,
retirement, fringe benefits, discipline, discharge and other related
activities. All appointments and promotions shall be made in accordance with
the personnel rules without regard to sex, race, color, age, religion or
political affiliation, and furthermore, shall be based on merit and fitness.
   (D)   Administration of the rules. The City Administrator shall be
responsible for:
      (1)   Administering all of the provisions of this section and of the
personnel rules not specifically reserved to the City Council; and
      (2)   Preparing or causing to be prepared and recommending to the City
Council personnel rules and revisions and amendments to such rules.
(Ord. 228, passed 1-10-1983)
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall have general supervision, direction and
control over all nonelective officers and employees and public works and
utilities officers and employees of the city in the exercise of their duties,
and of the work of all city departments, other than the office of municipal
judge, which is specifically exempted from the operation of this section.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Administrator shall be as follows:
      (1)   Acts as City Budget Officer; responsible for the annual budget;
reviews and approves departmental needs and estimates and transmits budgets to
appropriate bodies for review and approval; and administers the budget;
      (2)   To act as purchasing agent, subject to such limitations as may be
from time to time adopted by the City Council; but in no event shall the
Administrator bind the city for any purchase over the sum of $2,500 without the
prior Council approval;
      (3)   To act as administrative head and business agent of all departments
of the city government, subject to the control and direction of the Mayor and
City Council;
      (4)   To prepare and furnish all reports requested by the Mayor or City
Council;
      (5)   To see that all ordinances are enforced and that the provisions of
all franchises, leases, contracts, permits and privileges granted by the city
are observed;
      (6)   To collect all sums of money due the city, whether by way of fees,
liens, assessments, taxes, special assessments or any other source whatsoever;
      (7)   To supervise the operation of all public utilities owned and
operated by the city, and to have general supervision over all city property;
      (8)   To meet with private citizens and interested groups seeking
information or bringing complaints, and to attempt to resolve problems and
complaints fairly and to report same to the Mayor and City Council; and
      (9)   To dispose of surplus or excess property which may from time to
time come into the possession of the city, subject to prior Council approval.
   (C)   The Administrator shall have, in exercising general charge,
supervision and control over all nonelective city employees and their work,
with power to transfer an employee from one department to another, to the end
that the utmost efficiency shall be attained from all departments; and shall
designate the duties employees shall perform and all matters pertaining to
their work for the city. The City Council may, by motion, resolution or
ordinance, provide rules under which the Administrator shall exercise said
general supervision; and the Administrator shall report to the Mayor and the
City Council, for their action only, any recommendations for hiring and
discharging employees; save and except that the Administrator is hereby granted
the power to hire additional city employees whose services are necessary to the
Public Works and Utilities Departments in the event of emergency.
   (D)   The Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council, and shall
serve as Administrator until removed, in accordance with the Municipal Charter
of the city.
   (E)   The Administrator shall sit with the City Council at all meetings of
the City Council and shall have no vote therein. The City Administrator shall
attend any other meetings as directed by Council.
   (F)   The salary of the Administrator shall be such as shall be from time to
time fixed and determined by action of the City Council.
(Ord. 412, passed 5-23-2011)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Continuation
   
31.02   Powers and duties of Commission
   
31.03   Membership
   
31.04   General procedures
Tourism and Beautification Committee
   
31.15   Creation
   
31.16   Organization; meetings
   
31.17   Duties
   
31.18   Application, management and direction
   
31.19   Funds
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 CONTINUATION.
   There is continued a City Planning Commission, referred to in this
subchapter as “Commission,” for the city.
(Ord. 307, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 31.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   Except as otherwise provided by the City Council, the Commission may:
   (A)   Recommend and make suggestions to the Council and other public
authorities concerning the laying out, widening, extending, parking and
locating of public thoroughfares; parking of vehicles; relief of traffic
congestion; betterment of housing and sanitation conditions; and establishment
of districts for limiting the use, height area, bulk and other characteristics
of buildings and structures related to land development;
   (B)   Recommend to the Council and other public authorities plans for
regulating the future growth, development and beautification of the city in
respect to its public and private building and works, streets, parks, grounds
and vacant lots and plans consistent with future growth and development of the
city, in order to secure to the city and its inhabitants sanitation, proper
service of all public utilities, transportation facilities and
telecommunications utilities, including appropriate public incentives for
overall energy conservation and harbor, shipping and transportation facilities;
   (C)   Recommend to the Council and other public authorities plans for
promotion, development and regulation of industrial and economic needs of the
community in respect to private and public enterprises engaged in industrial
pursuits;
   (D)   Encourage industrial settlement within the city;
   (E)   Make an economic survey of present and potential possibilities of the
city with a view to ascertaining its industrial needs;
   (F)   Study needs of existing local industries with a view to strengthening
and developing local industries and stabilizing employment conditions;
   (G)   Do and perform all other acts and things necessary or proper to carry
out the provisions of this subchapter;
   (H)   Study and propose in general such measurers as may be advisable for
the promotion of public interest, health, safety, comfort, convenience and
welfare of the city and the area six miles adjacent;
   (I)   Make recommendations to the Council for the adoption of a
Comprehensive Plan for the city, or any part or element thereof. The official
Comprehensive Plan shall be effective only after its formal adoption by the
Council;
   (J)   Recommend to the Council ordinances intended to carry out the
purposes, principles and proposals expressed in the Comprehensive Plan;
   (K)   Advise and cooperate with other planning agencies within the state,
and upon request, or on its own initiative, furnish advice or reports to any
city, county, officer or department on any problem comprehended in city
planning;
   (L)   Promote public interest in and understanding of the Comprehensive Plan
and of planning and zoning in general;
   (M)   Make recommendations and an annual report on January 1 of each year to
the Council concerning the operation of the Commission and of the status of
planning and zoning within its jurisdiction;
   (N)   Make recommendations to the Council with regard to orderly development
of territory with the city; and
   (O)   Perform all other acts and thing necessary or proper to carry out the
provisions of O.R.S. 227.010 to 227.180 and other duties as may be prescribed
by ordinance or order of the Council.
(Ord. 307, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 31.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five voting members, each of whom
shall be a resident of the city and appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate advisory, non-voting members to provide
technical advice to the voting members.
   (C)   A term of office on the Commission shall be four years. The term of
office shall commence on January 1 and expire on December 31.
   (D)   Vacancies shall be filled by Mayor appointment for the remainder of
the unexpired term of the predecessor in office.
   (E)   A member may be removed by the Mayor during his or her term for
misconduct or nonperformance of duty after a public hearing before the Council.
   (F)   Members shall serve without compensation other than reimbursement for
duly authorized expenses.
   (G)   No two or more voting members of the Commission shall have the same
occupation. However, business persons engaged in different kinds of business
shall not be prevented by this division (G) from serving, and being retired
shall not be considered an occupation within the meaning of this division (G).
(Ord. 307, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 327, passed 2-10-1997)
§ 31.04 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt rules and procedures for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings,
recommendations and determinations, which records shall be a public record.
   (B)   The planning consultant shall provide staff services and
recommendations and determinations.
   (C)   The Commission shall select from its voting membership a Chairperson
and Vice-Chairperson to serve for one-year terms.
   (D)   Any discussion, other than one made at a public hearing of the
Commission, that concerns a specific case scheduled or likely to come before
the Commission and that is between a voting member and an applicant, an
applicant’s representative or any other person with a direct interest in the
matter, shall be made known and the substance of the discussion entered into
the record by the member at the beginning of the Commission’s public hearing on
the case.
   (E)   A member of the Commission shall not participate in any Commission
proceeding or action in which any of the following has a direct or substantial
financial interest: the member or the spouse, brother, sister, child, parent,
father-in-law, mother-in-law of the member, any business in which the member is
then serving or has served within the previous two years or any business with
which the member is negotiating for or has an arrangement or understanding
concerning prospective partnership or employment. Any actual or potential
interest shall be disclosed at the meeting of the Commission where the action
is being taken.
   (F)   The Commission shall complete its action on all applications and
requests coming before it under the zoning and subdivision ordinances, building
codes and Master Road Plan, within the period of time specified, unless a
shorter time is provided by order or ordinance.
(Ord. 307, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 327, passed 2-10-1997)
TOURISM AND BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE
§ 31.15 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Tourism and Beautification Promotion
Committee of the city, consisting of seven persons to be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to approval by the City Council, as herein provided.
   (B)   The term of office of all Committee members shall be three years; but
the terms of the first appointees to these positions shall expire on the
schedule below in order to provide for staggered terms in the future.
      (1)   Position #1 expires December 31, 1991 (next term January 1, 1992
through December 31, 1994).
      (2)   Position #2 expires December 31, 1991 (next term January 1, 1992
through December 31, 1994).
      (3)   Position #3 expires December 31, 1990 (next term January 1, 1991
through December 31, 1993).
      (4)   Position #4 expires December 31, 1990 (next term January 1, 1991
through December 31, 1993).
      (5)   Position #5 expires December 31, 1989 (next term January 1, 1990
through December 31, 1992).
      (6)   Position #6 expires December 31, 1989 (next term January 1, 1990
through December 31, 1992).
      (7)   Position #7 expires December 31, 1989 (next term January 1, 1990
through December 31, 1992).
   (C)   Existing members of the Tourism Committee and Beautification Committee
shall have first choice of appointments by the Council.
(Ord. 259, passed 12-5-1988)
§ 31.16 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Committee shall hold a meeting at least once a month and at other
times at a time and place designated by the Committee. Such meetings will be
announced and open to the public. Four members of the Committee shall
constitute a quorum.
   (B)   Any member missing three meetings without permission shall be
automatically removed from the Committee and replaced by Council action. The
Committee may have an alternate member without voting rights.
   (C)   The Committee shall organize by the election of a Chairperson,
Secretary and/or Treasurer from its members. The Chairperson shall preside over
all meetings; the Secretary shall keep minutes of each meeting, a copy of which
shall be filed in the city office and the Treasurer shall be responsible for
purchasing and the handling of any monies as authorized by the Council.
(Ord. 259, passed 12-5-1988)
§ 31.17 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Committee shall consist of the power and duty to advise
the City Council concerning the expenditure of city monies in the promotion of
tourism and beautification, and more specifically:
   (A)   To devote due time and attention to the discharge of the duties
imposed upon it by provisions of this subchapter and heightened awareness of
both residents and potential visitors of the recreational and scenic qualities
of the city surrounding Gorge areas;
   (B)   To recommend annually to the City Budget Officer and Budget Committee
a plan of expenditures based on anticipated transient assessment receipts;
   (C)   To recommend to the Council planned purchases and action deemed
appropriate to promote tourism and beautification in the community;
   (D)   To hold public hearings or to otherwise solicit public participation
whenever necessary, with respect to the Committee plan and program for tourism
and beautification promotion; and
   (E)   To make an annual report to the City Council at the time the budget
request is submitted and such other reports as from time to time may be
requested.
(Ord. 259, passed 12-5-1988)
§ 31.18 APPLICATION, MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTION.
   The actual application, management and direction of the program of tourism
and beautification promotion planned by the Committee shall be the
responsibility of the City Council, various elements of which it may choose to
delegate to city officers or others.
(Ord. 259, passed 12-5-1988)
§ 31.19 FUNDS.
   All funds budgeted and appropriated by the city for tourism and
beautification promotion shall be expended in the same manner as are other city
funds.
(Ord. 259, passed 12-5-1988)
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Adoption of State Attorney General’s Model Public Contract Rules
   
32.02   Smoking in city owned buildings
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL’S MODEL PUBLIC CONTRACT RULES.
   (A)   Adoption of Model Public Contract Rules. The 1990 version of the
Oregon Attorney General’s Model Public Contract Rules are hereby adopted as the
public contracting rules for the city.
   (B)   City Council as Public Contract Review Board. The City Council shall
function as the Public Contract Review Board. The duties of this Board are
prescribed in the 1990 version of the Oregon Attorney General’s Model Public
Contract Rules.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-26-1993)
§ 32.02 SMOKING IN CITY OWNED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY BUILDING. The City Hall building and Fire Station in its entirety.
      SMOKING. To smoke or carry any lighted cigar, cigarette or tobacco
product in any form.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in city buildings, with the exceptions listed in
division (C) below. Nothing in this section shall be construed to in any way
affect smoking regulations imposed by the Fire Chief or other laws, ordinances
or regulations.
   (C)   Smoking allowed in certain areas of City Hall building. The following
spaces shall be designated smoking areas:
      (1)   The area upstairs with the concrete floor immediately inside the
exterior door located at the southwest corner of the building;
      (2)   The area in the downstairs lobby with concrete floors; and
      (3)   The floor of the gymnasium between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m.
   (D)   Smoking prohibited/enforced.
      (1)   Signs prohibiting or permitting smoking shall be posted
conspicuously at every entrance and in prominent locations throughout the City
Hall building and Fire Station. The signs shall be of a form and size approved
by the City Council and contain a reference that regulation is by ordinance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface or destroy
any sign required by division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 314, passed 1-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons convicted of or otherwise found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of §
32.02 shall be fined $5 for a first offense, $25 for a second offense and $100
for third and all subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 314, passed 1-10-1994)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Definition of emergency
   
33.04   Authority of city
   
33.05   Declaration of emergency (O.R.S. 401.309)
   
33.06   Succession of authority
   
33.07   Regulation and control
   
33.08   Responsibility for emergency management
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Emergency Ordinance of the City of
Cascade Locks” and may be so pleaded and referred to.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a procedure to minimize injury to
persons, the environment and property, and to preserve the established civil
authority in the event a state of emergency exists within the incorporated
areas of the city.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.03 DEFINITION OF EMERGENCY.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Any human-made or natural event or circumstance causing or
threatening loss of life; injury to persons, the environment or property; human
suffering; or financial loss to the extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Such event shall
include, but not be limited to, fire, explosion, flood, severe weather,
drought, earthquake, volcanic activity, spills of oil or other hazardous
substances, disease, blight, infestation, utility or transportation service
disruptions, civil disturbance, riot, sabotage and war or any other such
emergency as defined under O.R.S. 401.025(4).
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.04 AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   Under the provisions of O.R.S. 401.035, the authority and responsibility for
responding to emergencies is placed at the local government level.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.05 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY (O.R.S. 401.309).
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the Mayor and City Council a state of
emergency exists, they shall declare in writing and publicize the existence of
same. At the earliest practical opportunity, a written declaration of emergency
shall be adopted by the Council and made a part of the city’s official records.
If circumstances prohibit the timely action of the Council, the Mayor may
declare a state of emergency, provided that approval of a majority of the
Council is sought and obtained at the first available opportunity. If
circumstances prohibit the timely action of the Council or Mayor, the City
Administrator may declare a state of emergency provided that approval of the
Council is sought and obtained at the first available opportunity.
   (B)   Upon that declaration of emergency, the Mayor is empowered to assume
centralized control of and have authority over all departments, divisions and
officers of the city in order to implement the provisions of this chapter. The
state of emergency declared pursuant to this section shall specify the factors
which warrant the exercise of emergency controls.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.06 SUCCESSION OF AUTHORITY.
   In the event that the Mayor is unavailable or unable to perform his or her
duties under the chapter, the duties shall be performed by:
   (A)   The Council President;
   (B)   The City Administrator; or
   (C)   The person designated by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.07 REGULATION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Whenever a state of emergency has been declared to exist within
incorporated city, the City Council is empowered to order and enforce the
measures listed herein below.
   (B)   However, if circumstances prohibit the timely action of the City
Council, the Mayor may order emergency measures provided that approval from a
majority of the Board of County Commissioners is sought and obtained at the
first available opportunity, or the Mayor’s order will become null and void.
   (C)   Such emergency measures may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Establish a curfew for the area designated as an emergency area
which fixes the hours during which all persons other than officially authorized
personnel may be upon the public streets or other public places;
      (2)   Prohibit or limit the number of persons who may gather or
congregate upon any public street, public place or any outdoor place within the
area designated as an emergency area;
      (3)   Barricade streets and roads, as well as access points onto streets
and roads, and prohibit vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or restrict or
regulate the same in any reasonable manner in the area designated as an
emergency area for such distance or degree of regulation as may be deemed
necessary under the circumstances;
      (4)   Evacuate persons from the area designated as an emergency area;
      (5)   Close taverns or bars and prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages
throughout city, or a portion thereof;
      (6)   Commit to mutual aid agreements;
      (7)   Suspend standard competitive bidding procedures to obtain necessary
goods, services and/or equipment;
      (8)   Redirect funds for emergency use;
      (9)   Order the suspension of the collection of tolls or fees on any road
or bridge in the city; and
      (10)   Order such other measures as are found to be immediately necessary
for the protection of life, the environment and property.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   For purposes of this chapter, in accordance with O.R.S. 401.305, the
emergency management office shall be the City Administrator’s Office. The City
Administrator or his or her designee shall be responsible for emergency
management functions within the city.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, association or entity that violates any
emergency measure taken by the City Council under authority of this chapter
shall be subject, upon conviction, to a fine of not more than $500 per offense.
   (B)   Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense for purposes
of imposition of penalty.
   (C)   Where the Oregon Revised Statutes provide for a penalty for the act,
commission or omission, the penalty prescribed herein shall be no greater than
prescribed by said Oregon Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-24-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Mandatory service
   
50.04   Recycling
   
50.05   Regulations and prohibited acts
   
50.06   Deposit of garbage and recyclables; use of containers
   
50.07   Collection services
   
50.08   Application for approval as collection contractor
   
50.09   Collection contractor
   
50.10   License for collection
   
50.11   Rates
   
50.12   Liability, indemnification, insurance
   
50.13   Complaints
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted for the safety, health, and
general welfare of the public. There is hereby established a uniform system for
the collection and disposal of solid waste, including recyclables. Such a
collection shall be provided by a solid waste collection contractor under
agreement with the city. All persons responsible for solid waste generation, as
hereafter set forth, including commercial business, shall be entitled and
required to utilize the services of the city's approved collection contractor.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivation shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of waste, such as furniture and other oversized
wastes which would typically not fit into contractor-provided containers.
   CITY. The City of Cascade Locks.
   COLLECTION CONTRACTOR or CONTRACTOR. The entity holding the valid current
letter of approval from the City of Cascade Locks to collect solid waste.
   COMMERCIAL (OR INDUSTRIAL) CUSTOMER. A nonresidential commercial or
industrial customer and those multiple-family complexes not selecting
residential service for each unit.
   COUNCIL. The legislative body of the City of Cascade Locks.
   DROP BOX. An all-metal container, with lidded or non-lidded cover, of not
less than ten cubic yards, or more than 50 cubic yards in capacity.
   ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD. A residence containing not more than one dwelling unit
and receiving individual unit pickup services.
   GARBAGE. Synonymous with “solid waste” (SW) and shall mean and include all
accumulations of waste matters discarded as of no further value to the owner,
such as kitchen and table waste, wrappings and small discarded containers, and
small dead animals weighing not over 15 pounds, but shall exclude all manure,
sewage, large dead animals, petroleum products, cleanings from private and
public catch basins, wash racks or stumps, white goods, bulky waste,
recyclables, yard waste, special or hazardous wastes, automobiles and vehicle
parts.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A collection contractor-provided 35-, 65- or 95-gallon
container for the collection of acceptable solid waste.
   GARBAGE UNIT. Secure and tight bundles, none of which shall exceed three
feet in the longest dimension, and shall not exceed 60 pounds in weight, or
such GARBAGE UNIT may be packed in small discarded boxes, barrels, or bags, or
in securely tight cartons or other receptacles reasonably easy to be handled
and loaded by one person onto a collection vehicle.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Special waste which has dangerous or hazardous qualities as
defined by state law.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste generated as a byproduct of manufacturing
operations, usually consisting of large quantities of paper, cardboard, metal,
plastics, scrap lumber and dunnage, and other materials incidental to and
connected with the manufacturing process and not otherwise included in the
definitions of “garbage,” “hazardous,” or “special wastes” herein above.
   MIXED PAPER. Includes the following: magazines, junk mail, phone books,
bond, or ledger grade, cardboard and paper board packaging. (This does not
include tissue paper, paper towels, frozen food containers, milk cartons, or
paper packaging combined with plastic wax or foil.)
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY UNIT. A residence containing five or more dwelling units.
Each dwelling within a MULTIPLE-FAMILY UNIT will be charged as a “single-family
unit” unless all of the containers are placed in one location for pickup. In
such case they will be charged on the commercial container rate. Individual
MULTIPLE-FAMILY UNITS must all be on single-family rate or the commercial
container rate.
   PERSON. Every person, firm, partnership, association, institution, or
corporation in the city generating garbage refuse or recyclables (except as
approved by the City Council and described herein) requiring disposal. The term
shall also mean the occupant and/or the owner of the premises for which service
herein mentioned is rendered.
   P.E.T. “Polyethylene terepthalate,” a recyclable plastic which includes
beverage bottles (like two-liter pop and liquor bottles), frozen food boil-in-
the-bag pouches and microwave food trays.
   RECYCLABLES. Newspaper, uncoated mixed paper, aluminum, glass, P.E.T., metal
food and beverage containers and such other materials that the city and
contractor determine to be recyclable.
   RECYCLING. The process by which waste materials are transformed into new
products in such a manner that the original products lose their identity. It
shall also include the collection, transportation, or storage of products by
others than the original user or consumer giving rise to the product being in
the stream of commerce for collection, disposal, RECYCLING, resource recovery,
or utilization.
   RECYCLING BIN. A contractor-provided container suitable for household
collection, storage and curbside set out of source-separated recyclables.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A container suitable for on-site collection, storage
and set out of source-separated recyclables at multi-family and commercial
locations.
   RESIDENCE. A building or portion thereof containing not more than one
dwelling unit.
   SINGLE-FAMILY UNIT. A residence containing not more than one dwelling unit.
   SOLID WASTE or WASTES. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and
semisolid wastes including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes,
industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes; provided, however that
SOLID WASTE shall not include special waste.
   SOURCE SEPARATION. The separation of different kinds of solid waste at the
place where the waste originates.
   SPECIAL WASTE.
      (1)   Chemical waste from a laboratory. (This is limited to discarded
containers of laboratory chemicals, lab equipment, lab clothing, debris for lab
spills or cleanup and floor sweepings.)
      (2)   Articles, equipment and clothing containing or contaminated with
poly-chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Examples are: PCB capacitors or
transformers, gloves, or aprons from draining operations, empty drums that
formerly held PCBs, etc.
      (3)   “Empty” containers of waste from commercial products or chemicals.
(This applies to a portable container which has been emptied, but which may
hold residuals of the product or chemical. Examples of containers are: portable
tanks, drums, barrels, cans, bags, liners, etc. A container shall be determined
"empty" according to the criteria specified at 40 C.F.R. 261.7.)
      (4)   Asbestos-containing waste from building demolition or cleaning.
(This applies to asbestos-bearing waste insulation materials, such as
wallboard, wall spray coverings, pipe insulation, etc.)
      (5)   Commercial products or chemicals: outdated, off-specification,
contaminated or banned. (This includes products voluntarily removed from the
marketplace by a manufacturer or distributor in response to allegations of
adverse health effects associated with product use.)
      (6)   Residue and debris from cleanup of spills or releases of a single
chemical substance or commercial product, or a single waste which would
otherwise qualify as a miscellaneous SPECIAL WASTE.
      (7)   Medical or infectious byproduct waste for a medical practitioner,
hospital, nursing home, medical testing laboratory, mortuary, taxidermist,
veterinarian, veterinary hospital or animal testing laboratory.
      (8)   Animal or fish waste and parts from slaughterhouses or processing
plants.
      (9)   Pumpings from septic tanks used exclusively by dwelling units
(single-family homes, duplexes, apartment buildings, hotels or motels).
      (10)   Sludge from a publicly owned sewage treatment plant serving
primarily domestic users (i.e., with no substantial industrial or chemical
influent).
      (11)   Grease trap wastes from restaurants or cafeterias not located at
industrial facilities.
      (12)   Wash water wastes from commercial laundries or laundromats.
      (13)   Chemical-containing equipment removed from service. (Example:
cathode ray tubes,
batteries, fluorescent light tubes, etc.)
      (14)   Waste produced from the demolition or dismantling of industrial
process equipment or facilities contaminated with chemicals from the process.
      (15)   Any hazardous waste and any radioactive, volatile, corrosive,
highly flammable, explosive, biomedical, infectious, biohazardous, or toxic
material as defined by applicable federal, state or local laws or regulations.
   STREET. A public or private way used for public travel, and includes street,
alley, avenue, road, boulevard, thoroughfare, public highway within the city.
   WHITE GOODS. Any large household appliance including refrigerators, stoves,
dishwashers, water heaters, washers, dryers, or other similar appliances.
   YARD WASTES. Includes leaves, grass, prunings and clippings of woody as well
as fleshy plants. Materials larger than two inches in diameter and three feet
in length shall not be considered YARD WASTE. Christmas trees will be
considered for collection as YARD WASTE.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.03 MANDATORY SERVICE.
   (A)   All persons residing or doing business within the city limits of
Cascade Locks shall be a customer and user of the city-approved solid waste
disposal program and shall subscribe and comply with the solid waste disposal
terms and conditions set forth in this chapter and the rules and collection
policies of the solid waste collection contractor designated by the city.
   (B)   No person may collect solid waste, transport the same upon or through
any street or public place or dispose of solid waste in the city unless
approved by the City Council to do so. Items of recyclable materials may be
transported to the collection area and removed by persons with city authority
to collect the same as an exception to the exclusive approval granted by this
chapter. Industrial waste not collectible by the collection contractor may also
be transported and disposed of by the entity that produced such waste or its
designee.
   (C)   All special wastes shall be collected, transported and disposed of in
accordance with applicable ordinances of the city and all state and federal
laws.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 RECYCLING.
   It shall be the policy of the city to encourage personal and group recycling
efforts. The City Council may allow the following group recycling efforts when
a written request and recycling program description is received and approved by
the City Council.
   (A)   Recycling centers. Groups involved in recycling efforts may establish
permanent recycling centers by complying with local land use regulations and
complying with city ordinances regulating the general health, safety, welfare
and well-being of the residents of Cascade Locks. Temporary recycling locations
may be established by receiving permission from the City Council. Public review
by the City Council will occur through the public hearing process described in
the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Funding for recycling. The city may from time to time provide funding
for community-wide recycling programs.
   (C)   Composting. A person may establish a compost pile or bin or box using
yard wastes and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes). Compost
facilities may be permitted when maintained in such a manner to not give off
offensive odors, drain into groundwater, leak onto the ground, or attract
insects or rodents.
   (D)   Coordination with collection contractor. The approved collection
contractor has the primary responsibility for collection and handling of
recyclable materials. Group recycling efforts should be coordinated with the
collection contractor.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or scatter any
refuse or garbage over or upon any premises, street (public or private) or
adjacent thereto, and either with or without the intent to later remove or burn
such refuse or garbage, or to suffer or permit, from accumulation of such
refuse and garbage, the premises owned, occupied or controlled by such person
to become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, or unsafe to public
health or a fire hazard.
   (B)   Hazardous and special wastes shall not be disposed of through the
city's solid waste collection system. The city's solid waste collection
contractor shall report all known or suspected violations of this section to
the City Administrator or his designee.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLES; USE OF CONTAINERS.
   Responsibilities of persons receiving services:
   (A)   The owner or person in charge of or in possession of any property or
premises within the City of Cascade Locks whereon garbage originates shall at
all times utilize contractor-provided containers for the disposal therein of
garbage and shall deposit or cause to be deposited therein such garbage, except
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such containers shall not be loaded to a weight capacity of more than
60 pounds and shall be kept in a sanitary condition with the insides and
outsides thereof clean and free from accumulating grease and decomposing
matter.
   (C)   No containers shall be kept or stored on any public street in the city
except that said containers may be stored and maintained in alleys adjacent to
and for the use of business establishments. In blocks in which there are
alleys, such containers shall be kept on private property in a convenient and
accessible location to such alley. In blocks which there are no alleys, such
containers shall be placed on private property in such location as is most
readily accessible to the street without interfering with the convenient,
sightly and sanitary enjoyment of such property.
   (D)   The owner or the person in charge of such property shall maintain the
place where said containers are located in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall at all times prevent said containers from being upset or spilled by any
means whatsoever.
   (E)   All solid waste, before deposit in the containers as hereinbefore
provided, shall be drained and wrapped in paper or other material in such
manner as to prevent, as nearly as possible, moisture from such garbage from
coming in contact with the sides or bottom of the container.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the person in
possession, charge, or control of any premises, his agents, authorized
employees of the city, or the franchised collector, to remove or lift the
coverings of any containers, and no other person shall tamper with or remove
any particle or material whatsoever from said containers.
   (G)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to haul, carry or dispose of garbage or refuse in the
city except as in this chapter provided.
   (H)   No hot ashes or hot clinkers shall be placed in any garbage containers
or container for collection or removal. All kitchen, table, cooking, animal and
vegetable waste and offal, before being deposited in containers as hereinbefore
provided, shall be drained and wrapped in paper or other material in such a
manner as to prevent, as nearly as possible, moisture from such garbage from
coming in contact with sides or bottoms of the containers.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 COLLECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   Residential recyclables collection. Any party may collect residential
recyclables. However, once recyclables are placed at the curbside or other
approved point of collection, then residential recyclables may be collected
only by the collection contractor.
   (B)   Yard waste collection. Any party may collect residential yard waste.
   (C)   Special collection.
      (1)   Special pickup services will be provided when authorized by the
City Administrator and the collection contractor, to those residences where
there are handicapped or elderly people who cannot move their containers to the
curb for collection. Residences which are geographically located so as to make
moving the containers to the curb an unreasonable physical hardship must apply
to the contractor for special collection service and submit documentation to
justify their application.
      (2)   The City Administrator may request the collection contractor to
pick up illegally stored or dumped solid waste from private property. The owner
shall be held responsible for paying for such pickup. The City Administrator
will attempt to contact the owner prior to ordering such collection service.
This contact shall be documented by the City Administrator.
   (D)   Discontinuing service during vacancy. Whenever any person leaves his
or her premises vacant for a period of more than one month and thus shall not
need solid waste collection services during said period, he or she may request
suspension of garbage collection and service fees therefore for said vacated
premises by giving written notice of said vacancy to the collection contractor
and in the written notice the person shall state the period of said vacancy and
the street address of the premises; provided, that upon receipt of said written
notice said services will be discontinued on the first calendar day of the next
succeeding month for not less than 30 days.
   (E)   All solid waste as hereinbefore defined will be collected within the
boundaries of the city as follows:
      (1)   Residential collection. Regular curbside solid waste, recyclables,
and yard waste collections from residential dwellings (single-family and
duplex) and mobile home parks shall be picked up once a week, with collection
to begin no earlier than 6:30 a.m. and terminate no later than 9:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday.
      (2)   Multiple-family units and commercial collection. Regular solid
waste collections from multifamily units, apartment houses, commercial and
business firms shall be picked up as required by volume, but shall not exceed
one pickup per day, five days per week, Monday through Friday. In areas where
the above establishments are within 300 feet of a residential zone, no
collection shall be made earlier than 6:30 a.m. and not later than 9:00 p.m.
      (3)   Saturday collections. The regular collection period between Monday
through Friday may be extended by one day to include Saturday if during that
particular week the official and/or authorized dump site and/or transfer
station has been closed in recognition of a holiday or during that particular
week a recognized holiday, as defined in the contractor's labor contract, falls
on one of the regular collection days of Monday through Friday.
   (F)   Anti-scavenging. Once residential recyclable materials and residential
yard waste materials have been set out on the curbside, or at such other
location as authorized by the city, ownership of those recyclables and yard
waste materials passes to the collection contractor. It shall be unlawful for
any person other than the collection contractor to remove or collect any such
recyclable materials or yard waste materials once they are set out on the
curbside or other approved location. However, any person may collect
recyclables delivered to such person at a location which has been approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL AS COLLECTION CONTRACTOR.
   A contractor may apply to the City Council to become the approved collection
contractor for the entire city. The written application shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Name and address of collection business;
   (B)   Type of vehicles and equipment available for use by the contractor;
   (C)   Type of vehicles and equipment to be used by the contractor;
   (D)   A history of the contractor's business, and references; and
   (E)   A rate card containing the rates proposed to be charged by the
contractor.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.09 COLLECTION CONTRACTOR.
   The contractor approved to provide municipal solid waste collection shall
have the exclusive right to collect, haul, store and transfer for compensation
all refuse, residential and commercial garbage and solid wastes over the
streets and highways of Cascade Locks, Oregon. An exception is granted for the
collection and recycling of newspaper and cardboard collection as expressly
permitted by the City Council. All garbage shall be collected by the City of
Cascade Locks collection contractor. The approval of the collection contractor
granted by the City Council is conditioned upon the following:
   (A)   The approval granted by the City Council shall be non-assignable. The
City Council reserves the right to determine if any other collection contractor
other than the current approved contractor should have the above described
collection rights and privileges.
   (B)   All trucks and collection vehicles used by the collection contractor
shall be so constructed, loaded, operated and maintained as to prevent wastes
from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping onto public or private
property. Said vehicles shall be designed and constructed to minimize the
escape of noxious odors. All of the above equipment shall be of metal
construction and must be approved by the Hood River County Sanitarian. Said
Sanitarian shall have the power and authority to grant exceptions for special
handling.
   (C)   The collection contractor must leave all premises, streets, and alleys
at the place of collection or loading in a neat and sanitary condition. All
material collected shall be deposited at a disposal site authorized by the
State of Oregon and other governmental regulation.
   (D)   The collection contractor shall be responsible for the collection of
all service fees from users in the city and the city shall bear no
responsibility for debt collection.
   (E)   The collection contractor shall participate each spring and fall in an
annual city clean-up effort during one week as designated by the City Council
and shall make trucks and equipment available to accomplish clean-up needs
during that period.
   (F)   The collection contractor shall abide by all laws governing the
collection, hauling and disposal of solid waste and comply with state
requirements on recycling as set forth in O.R.S. Ch. 459, Rules of the
Department of Environmental Quality, and other state and county agency rules
promulgated thereunder.
   (G)   The collection contractor shall keep sufficient books and records of
accounts and such books and accounts shall be subject to review by the City
Council upon written request.
   (H)   The collection contractor shall bill patrons for service provided on a
regular and timely basis no less often than quarterly.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.10 LICENSE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   The term of such collection contractor approval shall begin on the
date signed by the City Administrator and shall be a continuous ten-year
approval-to-operate period.
   (B)   On January 1 of each calendar year, the approval shall be considered
renewed for a full ten-year term, unless, prior to December 1 of any calendar
year, the City Council notifies the collection contractor in writing of its
intent to terminate further its approval. In that event, the collection
contractor shall continue to operate for the balance of the current approval
period (nine years). The City Council may terminate its approval with or
without cause; however, the City Council may later reinstate the continuing
renewal provision upon mutual agreement with the collection contractor and the
City Council.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.11 RATES.
   The City Council of the City of Cascade Locks shall have exclusive authority
to determine reasonable and proper rates to be charged for the collection of
garbage, refuse, recycling, and solid waste and to fix the maximum rate which
may be charged therefore. The applicant granted approval to collect or haul
solid waste must conform to the rate schedule as outlined in the application
unless approval is received from the City Council for a rate change. Rate
changes may be granted from time to time, but no more often than on an annual
basis by resolution of the City Council. A portion of the approved rate will be
a mandatory charge paid by all customers for recycling services provided by the
approved collection contractor. No relief from this portion of the rate will be
granted for personal or group recycling programs.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.12 LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE.
   The collection contractor shall be responsible for all services required
under this chapter and the city shall not be responsible nor liable for the
service provided. The collection contractor shall indemnify and hold the city
harmless from all claims, demands, causes of action or suits concerning the
collection service covered by the collection contractor.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
§ 50.13 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints made by customers of the collection contractor shall be
in writing and addressed to the collection contractor. Said complaint must set
forth the complaint and why the complainant feels the provisions of this
chapter are being violated. If the complainant is not satisfied by the response
of the collection contractor, within 15 days of the date of the making of the
complaint, the customer may refer the complaint to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council will hold a hearing on the complaint and give notice
to both parties ten days prior to the date set for the hearing. Upon such
hearing, the City Council shall determine if the collection is being performed
as this chapter requires. If the City Council determines that such service is
not being performed as required, then the Council shall have the power to
require compliance with its original approval and ordinance within the shortest
period possible, consistent with the nature of the complaint. Failure of the
collection contractor to comply with the Council directive within the stated
period of time shall be grounds for revocation of the Council's approval and
the Council may exercise other remedies as well as enforcement provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
(Ord. 315, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 457, passed 7-24-2023)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of public sewers required
   
51.03   Connection charges
   
51.04   Buildings sewers and connections
   
51.05   Use of the public sewers
   
51.06   Unauthorized discharges
   
51.07   Special waste handling fee
   
51.08   Protection from damage
   
51.09   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.10   Recovery of damages
   
51.11   Monthly rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM SPECIFICATIONS. All references to the form ASTM shall mean the Standard
Specifications or Methods of the American Society for Testing Materials of the
serial designation indicated by the number and, unless otherwise stated, refer
to the latest adopted revision of said specification or method.
   B.O.D. Denoting biochemical oxygen demand, shall mean the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under a standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the property line
or right-of-way line and connection with the public sewer service connection.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. The fee levied by the city to cover the cost of
inspection and construction of the public sewer lateral to the property which
is to be serviced, and for a portion of the construction cost of the lateral
sewers and other administrative costs.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, dispensing of food; and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow and conditions normally prevailing in
public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A public sewer which has been constructed to the
property line or right-of-way line from a public sewer lateral or main for the
sole purpose of providing a connection for the building sewer.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All city-owned facilities for collecting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The City Public Works Superintendent of the city or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007)
§ 51.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any unsanitary
sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters; except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage within the corporate limits of the
city, or any area under the jurisdiction of said city.
   (D)   All newly constructed dwellings, buildings and any other structure
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or commercial purposes shall
install suitable toilet facilities. All new structures in which plumbing or
toilet facilities are constructed shall be connected with the city sewer system
before the structure is occupied or used. No new septic systems shall be
permitted within the city except as a replacement system for an approved septic
system in existence at the time of the adoption of this chapter. During the
period of construction, approved temporary portable toilet facilities may be
used.
   (E)   Hook-up of existing buildings:
      (1)   The requirement that existing houses, buildings or structures used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other services be served by the
city sewer are as follows:
         (a)   Situated within the city and abutting a street, alley or right-
of-way in which a public sanitary sewer line is located; and
         (b)   The sewer is available to the property by being within 300 feet
of the structure to be served, situated on the property. The measurement of 300
feet does not include crossing another’s private property to reach the sewer
line.
      (2)   Properties where the structure is served by an approved and
functioning septic system are exempt from the requirement to hook up to the
sewer system until such time as the current septic system or any of its main
components fails. Upon failure of the septic system, or any of its main
components, if both criteria in divisions (E)(1)(a) and (E)(1)(b) above are met
by the structure, the property owner would be required to immediately notify
the city and hook up to the city sewer system. If the criteria in divisions (E)
(1)(a) and (E)(1)(b) are not met when an existing septic system fails, the
owner of the property may repair or replace the failed septic system if the
required permits and approvals are obtained.
   (F)   An owner may file written objections with the City Recorder against
being required to install toilet facilities or to hook up to the public sewer
system within 14 days of being ordered to do so by the city. If it is
determined by the City Planner that the property is larger than one-half acre
and that there is a reasonable likelihood of the property being re-divided in
the future, the owner shall submit a shadow plat showing all property lines,
topography, current and planned structures on the property, location of current
and planned septic systems, a plan for re-division of the property into lots
conforming with the standards for the zone in which the property is located and
such other information as the City Planner may require. The shadow plat shall
demonstrate that the property can be divided in the future in a manner
consistent with the zoning and the surrounding street system and any existing
or proposed structure or septic system will not preclude the future development
of the property to urban standards and densities. An application under this
provision shall be processed as a City Administrator review in accordance with
Community Development Code 8-6.20.030. Written objections filed by an owner
shall be considered by the City Council, who shall review the matter within 40
days after the objections are filed. The decision of the Council shall be
final, and no appeal shall be taken therefrom by said owner, except as is
provided by law.
   (G)   In the event any property owner, who by this chapter is required to
connect to the city sanitary sewer, fails or refuses to connect thereto, the
city, through its Public Works Department or by employment of an independent
contractor, may, at its option, cause said property to be connected to the said
sanitary sewer; and the total cost of said connection shall be charged to the
property owner, and said connection expenses shall be a lien on the real
property served by the connection.
   (H)   It shall be the responsibility of each sewer user to maintain the
sewer line from the building to the point where that sewer line connects with
city sewer at the owner’s property line. Maintenance shall include, but not be
limited to, repair and/or replacement of broken lines, removal of obstructions
in line, realignment of pipe to provide the necessary gravity flow, replacement
of seals at joints and all other acts necessary to maintain a sanitary and
properly operating system. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed
to change the requirements of §
51.05. All sewer lines that have been repaired, replaced or realigned, or have
in any way necessitated the breaking of connections on the line, must be
reinstalled to the specifications of said §
51.05 and be re-inspected and approved before the line is covered.
   (I)   If a building sewer line requires maintenance to meet the minimum
standards required by this chapter or to abate a nuisance or unsanitary
condition, the sewer user shall be given notice, in writing, that the sewer
line must be repaired within seven days. If the sewer user refuses to perform
the necessary maintenance in the time allotted, the city may, at its option,
perform the repair using either city personnel or contractors and charge the
costs of maintenance, plus 25% overhead, to the sewer user. Said expense shall
constitute a lien on the real property served and, if not paid within one year,
plus interest set by resolution, said lien may be foreclosed in the same manner
as any other city lien for improvement or service.
   (J)   In the event a sewer user has failed to take corrective action as is
required under division (H) above, and this failure is causing a nuisance or a
health hazard to the residents of the area, the city may terminate water
service to the building served by the sewer line in question to reduce or
eliminate the health hazard until the line is repaired.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   All houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, which are required to connect to the
public sewer under the provisions of this chapter, shall pay a connection
charge for each separate service connection provided to the property.
   (B)   All persons desiring or required to connect to the initial sewer
system or extensions thereof under the provision of this chapter shall, when
applying for a sewer connection, pay sewer connection fees as set by
resolution, plus the city’s actual expense incurred in making the connection
from the private property line to the city’s collection system. The applicant
for connection shall deposit with the city a basic connection fee plus that sum
which the Public Works Superintendent or his or her designated representative
estimates as the city’s cost for the connection being made. If the estimate is
less than the actual cost of connection, the difference shall be paid by the
applicant within 30 days from date of billing. If the estimate is more than the
actual cost, the balance will be refunded to the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council within its judgment may provide that area or
areas with the city not now served by the sewerage system desiring to be served
by sewer facilities on said properties, all in accordance with plans and
specifications as approved by the Engineer of the city and in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the State Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) and installed in a manner satisfactory to and approved by a
person authorized to inspect said sewer installations by the city; and if said
sewer installation is done by private persons other than the city, and all of
the cost and expenses of installing said sewer and making the connections to
the improvements located on the respective parcels of land or parts of land
served by said sewer, then, in that event, each residence and each unit of
multiple residences connecting to said sewer shall forthwith pay when they are
actually connected to the municipal sewer system of the city, a sewer
connection charge of the same amount as prescribed by this division (C)(1),
plus $100 for each additional living unit or separate commercial unit which
will be served by the connection.
      (2)   It being further provided that, in the event a new service
connection to the present sewer facilities of the city, or in the event of an
extension of the sewer system to serve a user who may be a large water user,
then and in that event the Council, as provided, shall fix the connection
charge to be paid by the said sewer users; said Council to take into
consideration the gallonage of water to be used by said business, and any and
all other factors which may affect the ultimate use of the sewage works of the
city.
      (3)   In all those areas where sewer expansion is done by private persons
under supervision of the city, as hereinabove provided for in this section, the
city and the persons doing the work shall agree as to the time within which
said sewer extension work shall be done; and, upon completion of said work and
acceptance thereof by the city, said sewer mains, laterals and connections
shall be turned over to the city free and clear of any and all expenses for the
construction and installation thereof. All sewer facilities shall be designed,
approved and installed in accordance with the most recent copy of the city’s
Public Works Design Standards as adopted by the City Council. All such sewer
facilities shall be located within public right-of-way or public utility
easements with widths and provisions as required by the city. The person,
persons or company doing the work, before turning over the sewers, mains and
laterals to the city, shall prepare a map or plat showing all of the property
served by said facilities and the lots, parts of lots or parcels of ground
actually hooked up to said sewers. Each of the owners of said lots, parts of
lots or parcels of land shall, when connecting to the sewer, pay to the city a
connection charge for the type of property served, as provided for in this
chapter.
      (4)   It is further provided that all other properties served by said
sewer installation, but which do not have a service connection running from the
sewer mains or laterals to the property lines, shall, when connecting to the
public sewer system, pay a service connection charge as provided in this
section.
   (D)   In the event a future expansion of the city sewerage system be made by
the city itself, the connection charge shall be as in this section.
   (E)   If a person extends a sewer line to serve his or her property, and
intervening properties are near or front on that new line and are thereby
required to hook-up to the sewer line, the person extending the line shall be
eligible for reimbursement for the pro rata share of the original cost of the
line extension accruing to each additional property hooking up to sewer in
accordance with the following process.
      (1)   The person extending the line shall submit to the city for review
and approval by the City Engineer, a certification of the actual costs of
building the sewer line including a determination of the average cost per foot
of the line construction for that portion between the person’s property and the
original location of the sewer line. Additional improvements, such as pump
stations or trunk line upgrades, that benefit all properties will be factored
into the total cost based on proportional benefit.
      (2)   The city and person extending the sewer line shall enter into a
reimbursement agreement indicating the city will facilitate the reimbursement
to the person extending the line the costs, without interest, of an amount
proportional to the benefit received by each intervening property to be paid
when sewer service is provided to each property.
      (3)   The city will determine the actual amount to be paid based on the
approved average cost per foot, or in the case of the property not directly
fronting on the sewer line, an appropriate proportional share.
      (4)   The city will assess each intervening property its share of the
reimbursement cost at the time and as a condition of hooking up to the sewer
line. The reimbursement amount will be forwarded to the original person
installing the sewer line within 30 days, less a 3% handling fee. The city will
not be responsible for any payment until payment has been received from the
private party.
      (5)   The term of any improvement agreement shall be limited to ten years
when the total reimbursement amount is less than $45,000; and may be extended
when the contract is in excess of that amount, at the discretion of the
Council, for a period up to 20 years. The person entering into such an
agreement with the city shall be responsible for any escrow or related fees
incurred during the term of the contract.
   (F)   If at any time any improvement which is connected to the municipal
sewer system is destroyed by fire, or is torn down and no longer connected to
the sewer system, the owner thereof shall file a certificate with the City
Recorder stating the date of destruction or removal of said improvements and
pay up all sewer service charges from the date of said destruction or removal;
and thereafter there shall be no monthly service charge made to said property
until new improvements are placed on said premises and connected to the sewer
system.
   (G)   The City Recorder, upon receipt of a certificate of destruction or
removal of improvements to property connected to the municipal sewer system,
shall present such certificate at the next Council meeting, and the Council
shall then consider the matter; and, upon adoption of a resolution removing
said property from the sewer service charge rolls, the Recorder shall make
proper notation in the proper records of the city and remove said property from
the monthly sewer charges until the property is again hooked up to the
municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 BUILDINGS SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereto;
and no person, firm or corporation shall make any connection to any part of the
sewer system without first making an application and securing a permit. The
city is not required to issue a permit for a connection to its system for any
reason stated as policy by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For a service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent to the Superintendent’s judgment. The initial hookup to
the sewer system shall not require an inspection fee. Those permits applied for
after the initial system hookups must be accompanied by a fee set by
resolution, which shall be paid to the City Recorder. No permit shall be issued
until the connection charge specified in §
51.03 has been paid.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation.
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings or
new building sewers only when they are found, on examination and testing by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter and the State Plumbing
Code.
   (E)   The building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe conforming to
Federal Specification WW-P-401, Class B, rubber ring joints, cement pipe with
rubber ring joints conforming to Federal Specification SS-P-331a or no-hub cast
iron with neoprene seal at joints. Plastic pipe conforming to state
specifications adopted in June, 1969 may be utilized.
   (F)   Building sewer connections shall be made on the house side of the
septic tank to the existing pipe. When connecting cast iron soil pipe to
asbestos-cement of clay pipe, a special approved adapter shall be used.
Connection of the building sewer to the city sewer at the property line shall
be with the approved adapter.
   (G)   The first fitting at the connection with the public sewer and the
building sewer shall be an A.C. cast iron or PVC tee. The tee branch shall
extend vertically to within six inches of finished ground surface and shall
include a sewer clean out box and the lid shall be used for inserting a test
plug for water testing the building sewer and as an auxiliary cleanout.
Backfilling around the riser shall be done in such a manner so as not to damage
the pipe.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
three inches. The slope of such three-inch pipe shall not be less than one-
quarter inch per foot, unless approved by the Superintendent. In no case shall
slope of four-inch pipe be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
   (I)   Building sewers serving buildings with basements shall, whenever
possible, be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (J)   The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as is possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
curved pipe no greater than 45-degree long radius bends. No 90-degree radius
elbows shall be used. All pipe shall be laid on a four-inch granular base of
three-fourths minus rock, pea gravel, sand or combination thereof.
   (K)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (L)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent.
Pipelaying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with regulations of
the State Department of Environmental Quality. No backfilling of the trench
shall be done until receipt of written approval from the city.
   (M)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   (N)   The applicant for building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. After final approval and testing of the building sewer by
the Superintendent, the owner shall make the final connection to the building
drain, as defined in §
51.01, unless otherwise authorized by the Superintendent. A 30-minute internal
hydrostatic test will be required on all building sewers before connection is
made to the building drain. All water, plugs and other facilities for making
the test shall be furnished by the applicant. Minimum head over the top of the
pipe shall be two feet, and maximum allowable leakage shall be four gallons per
hour per 100 feet.
   (O)   No plumbing contractors shall be allowed to make connection of private
sewers to the sewage works of the city on behalf of any owners of property
therein without first posting with the city a bond in the sum of $5,000,
indemnifying the city and the inhabitants thereof against any loss or damage
which the city or the inhabitants thereof might suffer by reasons of the
actions of said contractors in making said connections.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see
51.99
§ 51.05 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process water may be discharged, upon approval of the Superintendent, to a
storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public
sewers:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°C;
      (2)   Any gasoline, grease, oils, paint, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstructions to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewer works;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
material at the sewage treatment plant; and/or
      (7)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance, including the contents of septic tanks and cesspools, without
written consent of the Superintendent.
   (D)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount; or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located so as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection, and shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (E)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
having any of the following shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent:
         (a)   A one-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 milligrams
per liter;
         (b)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in §
51.01;
         (c)   Containing more than 350 milligrams per liter of suspended
solids; or
         (d)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the city.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to the proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and of the State Department of Environmental
Quality, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing.
   (F)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible at
all times.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made above shall be determined in accordance
with standard methods for the examination of water and sewage, and shall be
determined at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has
been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected.
   (I)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   The City Administrator is authorized to levy a fee set by resolution per day
for each unauthorized discharge of sewage. An UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE means lack
of connection permit, discharge of higher strength sewage (above standards in §
51.05(E)) or not allowed under §
51.05(C). An inspection shall be made by the Superintendent of Public Works of
any unauthorized discharge and a written report given to the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 SPECIAL WASTE HANDLING FEE.
   (A)   The city may enter into an agreement with a commercial or industrial
business to allow discharge of higher strength sewage containing concentrations
of BOD and TSS found in §
51.06(E) to the city sewer system. A portion of such agreement may set times
for discharge, pretreatment conditions and fees for handling such higher
strength sewage. The fee for handling such waste shall include plant operative
costs calculated in increments of BOD and TSS, plus 25% of that cost.
   (B)   The city is not obligated to allow discharge of higher strength sewage
to its system.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007)
§ 51.08 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person or persons shall unlawfully, maliciously, willfully or, as the
result of gross negligence on his, her or their part, break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, facility, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sanitary sewer system of the city. This
section does not apply, however, to any employee of the city during the time he
or she is engaged in his or her official employment, nor to any person or
persons authorized to work in any manner thereon.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspections, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, at such times
and during such hours as the Council shall approve.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007)
§ 51.10 RECOVERY OF DAMAGES.
   Any person or persons who, as the result of violating any of the provisions
of this chapter, cause any expenses, loss or damage to the city shall
immediately become liable to the city for the full sum of such expense, loss or
damage. The Council may, at its discretion, instruct the City Attorney to
proceed against any such person or persons, in any court of competent
jurisdiction, in a civil action to be brought in the name of the city, for the
recovery of the full sum of any such expense, loss or damage sustained by the
city.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 MONTHLY RATES.
   Monthly rates for sewer service, connection and other fees shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
51.06 shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,250, or by imprisonment for not more
than 100 days, or both.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
except §
51.06, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$500 per day, or imprisonment of not to exceed ten days, or both.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-8-2007; Ord. 426, passed 10-28-2013)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Regulating Water Service and Prohibiting Cross-Connections
   
52.01   Statutory authorization
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Purpose
   
52.04   Application and responsibilities
   
52.05   Cross-connections regulated
   
52.06   Backflow prevention assembly requirements
   
52.07   New construction
   
52.08   Retrofitting
   
52.09   Lawn irrigation
   
52.10   Thermal expansion
   
52.11   Wholesale customers
   
52.12   Mobile units
   
52.13   Installation requirements
   
52.14   Effects of backflow assembly installation
   
52.15   Fire systems
   
52.16   Plumbing Code
   
52.17   Access to premises
   
52.18   Annual testing and repairs
   
52.19   Responsibilities of backflow prevention assembly testers
   
52.20   Cost of compliance
   
52.21   Termination of service
   
52.22   Notification of water treatment
   
52.23   Emergency clause
Water Utility Service
   
52.35   Definitions
   
52.36   Service and operation; rates
   
52.37   New customer service
   
52.38   Installation location and timing
   
52.39   General policies for charges and fees
   
52.40   Other charge consideration
   
52.41   Application for service
   
52.42   Construction and control standards; general liability
   
52.43   Service line regulations
Fire Department Fee on Property Served by City
   
52.55   Fire Department fee on property served by city
 
   
52.99   Penalty
REGULATING WATER SERVICE AND PROHIBITING CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Pursuant of O.A.R. Chapter 333-66-0070, it is the responsibility of the
water purveyors for the city to protect its drinking water by instituting and
enforcing a cross-connection program. Water suppliers shall undertake cross-
connection control programs to protect the public water system from pollution
and contamination. The water supplier’s responsibility for cross-connection
control shall begin at the water supply source, include all public treatment,
storage and distribution facilities under the water supplier’s control, and end
at the point of delivery to the water user’s system.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. If a word
or term used in this subchapter is not contained in the following list, its
definition or other technical terms used shall have the meanings or definitions
listed in the most recent edition of the Manual of Cross-Connection Control
published by the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research, University of Southern California (“USC”).
   APPROVED AIR GAP (AG). A physical separation between the free-flowing
discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and the overflow rim of an
open or non-pressurized receiving vessel. An APPROVED AIR GAP shall be at least
twice the diameter of the supply pipe measured vertical above the overflow rim
of the vessel and in no case less than one inch and in accord with State
Plumbing Specialty Code.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY, BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. An
assembly to counteract backpressure and/or prevent back-siphonage, such as a
reduced pressure principle backflow assembly (RPBA), reduced pressure principle
detector backflow prevention assembly (RPDA), double check valve backflow
prevention assembly (DCVA), double check detector backflow assembly (DCDA),
pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage prevention assembly (PVB) or spill-
resistant pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage prevention assembly (SVB) of a
make, model, orientation and size approved by the State Department of Human
Services.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (AVB). A device consisting of an air inlet valve
or float check, a check seat and an air inlet port(s). This device allows air
to enter the water line when the line pressure is reduced to a gauge pressure
of zero or below. This device is designed to protect against a non-health or a
health hazard under a backsiphonage condition only.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the city’s
water supply system that may actually or potentially become a cross-connection.
   BACKFLOW. The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases or substances into the water system.
BACKFLOW occurs due to a differential pressure existing between two different
points within a continuous fluid system and may occur due to either
backsiphonage or backpressure.
   BACKPRESSURE. An elevation of pressure downstream of the distribution system
that would cause, or tend to cause, water to flow in the opposite direction.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. A drop in distribution system pressure below atmospheric
pressure (partial vacuum), that would cause, or tend to cause, water to flow in
the opposite direction.
   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY TESTER. A person who has successfully completed
and maintains all requirements as established by the State Department of Human
Services to be a tester in the state.
   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW CONNECTION SPECIALIST or SPECIALIST. A person who has
successfully completed and maintains all requirements as established the State
Department of Human Services to be a specialist in the state.
   CITY. The City of Cascade Locks.
   CITY WATER SYSTEM. The City of Cascade Locks water system, which shall
include its wells, pumping stations, reservoirs, supply trunk or feed lines,
service lines, meters and all other appurtenances, device lines and things
necessary to the operation of the system and to supply water service to
individual property or premises and shall include the city’s potable water with
which the system is supplied.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a public water supply system of
any substance which may be detrimental to health and/or quality of water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement where a potable water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other non-potable or unapproved
water supply system or auxiliary system, sewer, drain conduit, swimming pool,
storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, swamp coolers or any other device which
contains, or may contain, contaminated water, sewage, gases or other liquids of
an unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the public water system as a result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper
connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover devices or other
temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of which, backflow
could occur, are considered to be CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Health (high risk) or non-health (low risk) hazard
classification that shall be attached to all actual or potential cross-
connections.
   DHS. The Oregon Department of Human Services.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Works Superintendent or his or her designee.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (DCVA). An assembly of two
independently acting approved check valves, including tightly closing resilient
seated shutoff valves attached at each end of the assembly and fitted with
properly located resilient seated test cocks. This assembly is designed to
protect against a non-health hazard.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical,
chemical or biological nature to the public potable water system or the
consumer’s potable water system that would be a danger to health.
   NON-HEALTH HAZARD (POLLUTION). An impairment of the quality the water to a
degree that does not create a hazard to the public health, but does adversely
affect the aesthetic qualities of such water for potable use.
   O.A.R. The Oregon Administrative Rules.
   POINT OF USE ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention within the
consumer’s water system at the point at which the actual or potential cross-
connection exists.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer’s potable
water system, but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as
defined. The maximum intensity of pollution to which the potable water system
could be degraded under this definition would cause a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage to the system or its
appurtenances.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic use.
   PREMISES. Any piece of property to which water is provided, including, but
not limited to, all improvements, mobile structures and structures located on
it.
   PREMISES ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention at the service
connection between the public water system and the premises.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (PVB). A device
consisting of one or more spring loaded check valves and an independently
operating air inlet valve installed as a unit between two tightly closing shut-
off valves. The air inlet valve is internally loaded to the open position.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP). An assembly
containing two independently acting approved check valves, together with a
hydraulically operating mechanically independent pressure differential relief
valve, located between the check valves and at the same time below the first
check valve. The unit shall include properly located resilient seated test
cocks and tightly closing resilient seated shutoff valves at each end of the
assembly. This assembly is designed to protect against a non-health hazard or
health hazard.
   RESIDENT. A person or persons living within the territory served by the
city.
   RETROFITTING. To furnish a service connection with parts or equipment made
available after the time of construction or assembly installation.
   THERMAL EXPANSION. The pressure created by the expansion of heated water.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the water supply of the city
from contamination or pollution due to any existing or potential cross-
connections and to comply with O.A.R. 333-061-0070, 333-061-0071, 333-061-0072,
333-061-0073 and 333-061-0074 as presently in effect or as hereafter amended.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.04 APPLICATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   This subchapter applies throughout the city and to every premises and
property served by the city water system. It applies to any premises, public or
private, regardless of date of connection to the city water system. Every
owner, occupant and person in control of any concerned premises is responsible
for compliance with the terms and provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.05 CROSS-CONNECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   No cross-connection shall be created, installed, used or maintained
within the territory served by the city, except in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Director shall carry out or cause inspections to be carried out to
determine if any actual of potential cross-connection exists. If found
necessary, an assembly commensurate with the degree of hazard will be required
to be installed at the service connection.
   (C)   The owner, occupant and person in control are responsible for all
cross-connection control within the premises.
   (D)   The use of any type of chemical spray attachment connected to the
premises plumbing, including garden hose fertilizers and pesticide applicators,
is prohibited within the city’s water system without proper protection from the
potential of backflow occurring.
   (E)   The use of any type of radiator flush kits attached to the premises
plumbing is prohibited within the city’s water system without proper protection
from backflow occurring.
   (F)   All premises which appear on Table 1 of O.A.R. Chapter 33-061 will be
required to have a RP assembly at the service connection.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.06 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A specialist employed by or under contract with the city shall
determine the type of backflow assemblies to be installed within the city’s
water service area. All assemblies shall be installed at the service connection
unless it is determined by the specialist and approved by the Director that it
should be installed at the point of use.
   (B)   An assembly shall be required in each of the following circumstances,
but the Director is not limited to just these circumstances:
      (1)   When the nature and extent of any activity at a premises, or the
materials used in connection with any activity at premises or materials stored
at premises could contaminate or pollute the potable water supply;
      (2)   When a premises has one or more cross-connections as that term is
defined in this subchapter;
      (3)   When internal cross-connections are present that is not
correctable;
      (4)   When intricate plumbing arrangements are present that make it
impractical to ascertain whether cross-connections exist;
      (5)   When the premises has a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (6)   When entry to the premises is restricted so that inspections for
cross-connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency to assure that
cross-connections do not exist;
      (7)   When materials are being used such that, if backflow should occur,
a health hazard could result;
      (8)   When an appropriate cross-connection survey report form has not
been filed with the Director;
      (9)   Any and all used water returns systems;
      (10)   If a point-of-use assembly that is protecting the city’s
distribution system has not been tested or repaired as required by this
subchapter, the installation of a reduced pressure principle assembly will be
required at the service connection at the premises owner’s expense;
      (11)   When there is upon the premises an auxiliary water supply that is
or can be connected to the city’s or supply system;
      (12)   All multi-story buildings and any building with a booster pump or
elevated storage tank;
      (13)   There is piping or equipment for conveying liquids other than
potable city water and that piping or other equipment is under pressure and
installed and operated in a manner that could cause a cross-connection;
      (14)   All services two inches or larger;
      (15)   When installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly is
deemed by a specialist to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of these
regulations; and
      (16)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies or devices
which do not meet the requirements of approved backflow prevention assemblies
required by O.A.R. 333-061-0070, but were approved assemblies or devices for
the purpose described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall be allowed to remain in service, so long as they
perform satisfactory and pass backflow test requirements. Whenever such
existing device is moved from its present location, or the degree of hazard
changes, or requires more than minimum maintenance, the device or assembly
shall be replaced by a backflow prevention assembly that meets current
requirements.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.07 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In all new nonresidential construction, an approved backflow assembly
shall be installed at the service connection. The type of the assembly will be
commensurate with the degree of hazard as determined by a specialist.
   (B)   When a building is constructed on commercial premises and the end use
of the building is not determined of could change, a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly shall be installed at the service connection to
provide protection of the public water supply in the event of the most hazard
use of the building.
   (C)   In all new construction where a backflow prevention assembly is
required must be tested immediately upon installation.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.08 RETROFITTING.
   Retrofitting shall be required on all service connections where an actual or
potential cross-connection exists and wherever else the city deems retrofitting
necessary.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.09 LAWN IRRIGATION.
   All lawn irrigation systems may be protected by an atmospheric pressure
vacuum breaker (AVB) or a pressure vacuum breaker backsiphonage prevention
assembly (PVB) when properly installed. These devices do not provide adequate
protection if they are subject to flooding, back pressure, or it compressed air
is used to winterize the system. In these situations, double check valve
assemblies shall be used. In the event any system is equipped with an injector
system or has submerged heads, a reduced pressure principle will be required.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.10 THERMAL EXPANSION.
   It is the responsibility of the property owner, lessee and person in control
of the property to eliminate the possibility of damage from thermal expansion,
if a closed system has been created by the installation of a backflow
prevention assembly.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.11 WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
   Any customer that has a contract for water services with the city must have
an active, ongoing cross- connection program. The cross-connection program must
be approved by the Director. The Director reserves the right to require a
reduced pressure principle assembly at the interconnect.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.12 MOBILE UNITS.
   (A)   Any mobile unit or apparatus which uses the city’s water, or water
from any premises within the city’s system, shall first obtain written
permission and pay all required fees.
   (B)   Water can only be obtained from the hydrant specified by the city.
   (C)   Fees will be set by Council resolution.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.13 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All backflow prevention assembly installations shall follow the requirements
set forth in O.A.R. 33-061-0070 and 333-061-0071, as amended. The type of
backflow prevention assembly required shall be commensurate with the degree of
hazard that exists and must, at all times, meet the standards of the DHS; all
backflow prevention assemblies required under this section shall be of a type
and model approved by the DHS.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.14 EFFECTS OF BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY INSTALLATION.
   The city shall in no way be responsible or held liable for any decrease in
water pressure or other negative effect cause by the installation of a backflow
assembly.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.15 FIRE SYSTEMS.
   An approved double check detector assembly shall be the minimum protection
on fire sprinkler systems using piping material that is not approved for
potable water use and does not provide for periodic flow through during each
24-hour period. A reduced pressure principle detector assembly (RPDA) must be
installed if any solution other than the potable water can be introduced into
the fire sprinkler system.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.16 PLUMBING CODE.
   As a condition of water service, customers shall install, maintain and
operate their piping and plumbing systems in accordance with the State
Specialty Plumbing Code, as amended. If there is a conflict between this
subchapter and the Plumbing Code, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.17 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Authorized city personnel shall have access during reasonable business hours
(Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.) to all
parts of a premises and within the structure to which water is supplied, to
determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of these regulations, exist. Every effort will be made to
schedule an appointment within ten days to check such backflow systems unless
it is deemed an immediate threat to the city water system. When such a
condition becomes known, the Director of the Utility shall deny or immediately
discontinue the service to the premises by a physical break in service until
the condition has been corrected. However, if any owner, occupant or person in
control refuses authorized personnel access to a premises, or to the interior
of a structure, during these hours for inspection, a reduced pressure principle
assembly must be installed at the service connection to that premises at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.18 ANNUAL TESTING AND REPAIRS.
   The owner of the premises served by the city assume all responsibility for
testing, maintenance and repair of the installed approved backflow prevention
assembly, and shall have any and all assemblies tested immediately upon
installation. All backflow assemblies are required to be tested by a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester annually (one time each year) or more often
in those instances where successive inspections indicate failure. All such
assemblies found not functioning properly shall be promptly repaired or
replaced immediately at the expense of the owner, occupant or person in control
of the premises. In the event an assembly is moved, repaired or replaced it
must be retested immediately. If an assembly is not promptly repaired or
replaced, the Director may deny or discontinue water service to the premises.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.19 RESPONSIBILITIES OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTERS.
   (A)   All backflow assembly testers operating within the city shall be
certified in accordance with all applicable regulations of the DHS.
   (B)   Persons certified as backflow prevention assembly testers shall agree
to abide by all requirements of the United States Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) and have completed confined space entry training
to enter any confined space within the city.
   (C)   No person shall operate as a backflow prevention assembly tester
within the city without first being annually registered with the Director.
   (D)   At the time of registration, recertification and/or upon the
Director’s request, each person certified as a backflow prevention assembly
tester shall furnish evidence to show that he or she is insured and bonded to
perform services, has a current valid DHS backflow assembly tester
certification and have proof of gauge accuracy verification within the past
year.
   (E)   All test reports must be turned into the city within ten working days
following the completion of the test.
   (F)   Approved backflow assembly device testers may be required to notify
the Director in advance when the test is to be undertaken so that city
representatives may witness any or all tests to be performed.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.20 COST OF COMPLIANCE.
   All cost associated with purchase, installation, inspections, testing,
replacement, maintenance, parts and repairs of the backflow prevention assembly
are the financial responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.21 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   Failure on the part of any owner, occupant or person in control to install
an approved backflow device, conduct an annual test on a backflow device, or to
discontinue the use of all cross-connections and to physically separate cross-
connections in accordance with this subchapter is sufficient cause for the
immediate discontinuance of public water service to the premises.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.22 NOTIFICATION OF WATER TREATMENT.
   Whenever any water user or the owner of the premises obtaining water from
the city water system treats the water in any way or adds any chemical to the
water before the water exits the premises plumbing, he or she shall notify the
city in advance of doing so.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 52.23 EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   (A)   In as much as this subchapter is necessary for the immediate
preservation of health, peace and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist and this subchapter shall be in full force and effect immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor.
   (B)   This subchapter shall become effective on May 24, 2006.
(Ord. 387, passed 6-12-2006)
WATER UTILITY SERVICE
§ 52.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT or PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association,
social or fraternal organization, corporation, trust, estate, receiver,
syndicate, brand of government or any group acting as a unit either by
themselves, jointly or through a servant, agent or employee.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the city or his or her
designee.
   PREMISES. A building or group of buildings occupied by a family unit, or
business entity and used by residential business or commercial purposes and/or
any parcel of land.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 52.36 SERVICE AND OPERATION; RATES.
   (A)   Rates. Rates for the use or consumption of water or the provision of
any service related thereto shall be set from time to time by resolution for
the Council.
   (B)   Fire protection service lines.
      (1)   Services for fire protection must be fitted with such fixtures only
as are needed for fire protection and entirely disconnected from those used for
other purposes.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to use any fire line for any other purpose
than fire protection. Any unlawful use of a fire line shall subject the
violator to the penalties prescribed in §
52.99.
   (C)   Special construction. Whenever water is requested by an applicant for
construction purposes the city may supply said water through the most
convenient hydrant, measuring the amount used by the installation of a
temporary hydrant meter. There shall be a refundable deposit in the amount of
$700 to insure the value of said meter and an installation charge of $30 which
is nonrefundable.
   (D)   Inspection of premises. The City Administrator shall have free access
at all reasonable times to all parts of building or premises supplied by water
from the city’s mains for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of water
used, shutting off or turning on the water through the service connection,
checking for cross-connections, checking compliance with codes and for any
other reasonable cause and it shall be unlawful for any person to hinder,
obstruct or unnecessarily delay such actions.
   (E)   Emergency powers. Upon the declaration by the City Council that a
water emergency situation exists, the City Administrator shall have the
authority to take such steps as he or she shall deem necessary to preserve and
protect the city water supply and system facilities. Any action taken by the
City Administrator pursuant to powers granted him or her in this section shall
be subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 NEW CUSTOMER SERVICE.
   The procedures and policies of §§
52.37 through
52.41 shall be adhered to in all cases, except when application of the rule
would work a severe and unfair burden on a particular applicant that can be
clearly demonstrated is peculiar to his or her particular situation. Such cases
may be granted modification or waiver of a particular policy upon specific
written approval of the City Administrator. The city is not obligated herein to
undertake any project, or meet any time deadline or in any way obligate itself
to providing service for any reason.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 52.38 INSTALLATION LOCATION AND TIMING.
   (A)   Location and premises.
      (1)   All extensions shall be within the urban growth boundary as
designated in the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   An applicant for new service shall own or control the land at the
terminus of the main extension.
   (B)   Main installation and location.
      (1)   The city at its own discretion shall determine what party shall be
responsible for installation of all mains and appurtenances. Generally, the
city shall be the installer, except in those instances where all land being
served is under the ownership and/or control of the applicant, (i.e., new
subdivision).
      (2)   Physical location of mains and all other appurtenances shall be the
decision of the City Administrator.
      (3)   Service lines installation. Generally service lines will be
installed at the same time as the main only when a new connection or paving is
imminent or if specifically requested by an applicant. In these cases, the
regular connection fee may be appropriately charged a developer at the same
time as the main charge.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 52.39 GENERAL POLICIES FOR CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Main charge and connection fee.
      (1)   (a)   Both these cost items are generally applicable to obtaining
water service, but are determined separately and independent of one another.
The main charge is based on the city’s average construction cost of a six-inch
main including intersections, fire hydrants, engineering, inspection and other
related expense.
         (b)   The connection fee is based on the city’s cost of installing a
service line and meter from the main to the curb line.
      (2)   (a)   When a main suitable for serving the applicant’s premises is
in place at the time of request for service, then the main charge shall be
computed by multiplying the footage of the parcel to be served where bypassed
by the main by a factor of 50% the current average per foot construction cost
of a six-inch main. Tax lot divisions will be determinate as to the footage
involved in computing main charges. Both the main charge and the connection
fees shall be payable at the time application for service is made. When a main
must be extended to serve the applicant’s premises, the main charge shall be
computed by multiplying the “front” footage of all parcels of land bypassed by
the main (not only the land served) by a factor of 50% the current averaged per
foot construction cost of a six-inch main (e.g., an extension from the
intersection serving a house on lot A with 50 feet of frontage and a vacant lot
B across the street would be assessed on 100 feet or 100% of the averaged cost
for said extension.) Tax lot division will be determinate as to the footage
involved in computing main charges. Both the main charge and connection fee
shall be payable at the time application for service is made.
         (b)   When such footage amounts to less than 50 feet, the main charge
for that service will be computed as if there were 50 feet of frontage.
         (c)   When property has mains bypassing two or more sides the main
charge shall be based on an average of the lot frontage so served.
         (d)   When a main serves property, but does not completely bypass the
parcel, if in the city’s judgment it is a reasonable expectation that the city
will at some time be required to extend the main further, then the main charges
for service to that property shall be assessable on the total linear footage,
as if the main bypassed the entire parcel.
         (e)   When a main serves property, but does not completely bypass the
parcel’s frontage and it is the city’s determination there is no reasonable
expectation that the city will be required to extend the main further, then the
main charge shall be based on the actual frontal footage of main installed
(regardless of size) but in no case shall be less than a 50-foot assessment.
         (f)   When a main crosses property other than through the public
right-of-way, main charges shall be computed the same as a typical in-street
extension, i.e., the owner or applicant would pay main charges on 200 feet of
frontage for a 100-foot line extension.
   (B)   Conversion from private line to standard main. Customers converting
over from a private line to a standard main shall pay regular main charges and
connection fees when the main has been extended at their request; in other
instances no charges or fees will be assessed. This privilege for changing over
to a standard service at no cost applies only to the connections which exist at
the time the main is extended. Any new connection or service, even if to the
same parcel of land, will be assessed regular charges and fees.
   (C)   Reimbursement contract. A person having paid a main charge on property
other than his or her own, may enter into a contract with the city to have main
charges as collected by the city returned to him or her on a proportional basis
when new services connect to the extension; collection and reimbursement is to
be made at the rate current at the time of connection. The term of this
contract shall be limited to ten years when the amount of the contract is less
than $45,000 and may when the contract is excess of that amount be extended, at
the discretion of the Council, for a period up to 20 years. The person entering
into such an agreement with the city shall be responsible for any escrow or
related fees incurred during the term of the contract.
   (D)   City contract option. Though the city budget be sufficient, if the
city is unable to undertake the project at a given point in time due to lack of
cash on hand, manpower, equipment, commitment to other projects or for any
other cause the city deems reasonable, then the city may at its discretion
contract for the work to be done. In this instance the normal charges and fees
would apply plus an additional fee may be imposed to cover any cost overage
between the regular charges and fees and the actual cost of construction
(inclusive of all related costs) of that specific job.
   (E)   Main charge assessed once. Any property having paid a main charge
after the date of this subchapter shall not be so assessed again at a later
date. In instances such as a new subdivision where the city would generally
have had no financial involvement in serving the premises therein, the city
would make no charge, but rather the cost of the water facilities installed
would be reflected in the purchase price of a lot.
   (F)   Dollar assessment by resolution. Actual dollar amounts for main
charges and connection fees shall be set from time to time by resolution. A
yearly review is required each January.
   (G)   Other financing allowed. There is no intent by these regulations to
preclude the L.I.D. (Local Improvement District) option or any private
arrangement made between individuals.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 52.40 OTHER CHARGE CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Systems development charge. A systems development charge may be
imposed whenever requirements for water are evidenced by request of a metered
service two inches in size or over. The City Administrator in consultation with
the Superintendent of Public Works and the developer shall make a determination
on a case-by-case basis as to a reasonable amount to be approved by the
Council.
   (B)   Over-size mains. When the need for an over-size main is principally
attributable to a specific development, then the developer shall pay the actual
cost of the difference between standard six inch and the main installed.
   (C)   Excavating existing paved surface. An applicant requesting any main or
service line extension or installation which involves cutting, excavating and/
or replacement of any paved surface shall be charged the actual cost of such
cutting and repair in addition to other applicable charges and fees.
   (D)   Special situations.
      (1)   Financing extensions of mains which cross through or by land which
has no reasonable expectation of being served by the extension or which is
already served off another main or private lines, and installation of any
additional facilities needed to develop particular areas of land are the
responsibility of the developer. The developer may request in writing that the
city participate in the financing of those portions of such projects through
waiver of certain main charges or other appropriate methods. The City Council
shall review any such requests in light of the availability of funds, the size
of the project, overall system needs and the extent of benefit to surrounding
property policies as set forth in this subchapter and other pertinent factors.
The Council may grant the request as presented or for any lesser amount of
assistance, but in no way shall be obligated to honor any such request.
      (2)   Whether or not city funds are involved in the initial financing of
any project, the City Council may, where appropriate, establish geographic
areas of benefit and impose a utility service charge to be collected at the
time of connection to the water system which would be over and above the normal
main charge and connection fee as set herein. Such charges would serve to
offset the initial cost making water available to certain areas of the city,
and would be used under a reimbursement contract to repay proportionally the
developer and/or city.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 52.41 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Required information and format.
      (1)   Each applicant for water service shall sign an application form
provided by the Water Department giving them the following information:
         (a)   Date of application;
         (b)   Location of premises to be served;
         (c)   Date service is to begin;
         (d)   Purpose for which services is to be used;
         (e)   Address to which billing is to be mailed;
         (f)   Class and size of the meter service, where applicable; and
         (g)   Such other information as the Water Department may reasonably
require.
      (2)   The application shall contain a statement that all charges are
assessable as liens against the premises for which said service is installed,
and all accounts for such service and use of water shall be kept only in the
name of the owner of the premises for which such service is installed. Upon
such charges become delinquent and unpaid for a period of 30 days, the city
may, at its discretion, cause the water to be shut off from such premises until
such charges are paid. Statements of such charges may be mailed to any agent of
the owner, including the occupant of the premises upon the written request of
the owner, but any such mailing of the statement of the charges of the service
and use of water to anyone other than the owner shall not release the property
or premises for which such service is installed from any liability of such
charges.
      (3)   The application shall also contain a signature line for the owner
of the property, if different from the applicant.
   (B)   Contractual obligations. The application provided for in division (A)
above shall contain a contract on the part of the person making the
application, to pay for the water applied for at the rate and in the manner
specified in such contract. It shall reserve to the city the right to charge
and collect the rates and enforce the penalties provided for in this
subchapter, in the manner herein provided. The application shall also reserve
to the city the right to change the rates at any time by resolution, to
temporarily discontinue the service with notice to the customer, and shall
specify that said contract is subject to all the provisions of any ordinance or
resolution of the city in relation to this subject, and shall further provide
that the city shall not be held responsible for any damage for water or other
cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliance on the premises supplied
with water, by the owner or occupant of said premises, and that the fact that
the agents of the city have inspected the plumbing and appliances shall not be
pleaded as a basis of recovery in case of damage to the premises, and shall
provide that in case the supply of water shall be interrupted or fail for
reason of accident or any other cause whatsoever, the city shall not be liable
for damages for such interruption or failure, nor shall failures for
interruption if for any reasonable period of time be held or constitute a
breach of contract on the part of the city or in any way relieve the customer
from performing the obligations of this contract. All contracts shall take
effect from the day they are signed and rates shall be charged from the day
premises are connected with the city’s water supply and turned on to such time
as the city is notified that service is no longer desired and the water turned
off.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 CONSTRUCTION AND CONTROL STANDARDS; GENERAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for the repair and maintenance of the
water distribution system.
   (B)   Property owners shall be responsible for all installation, maintenance
and repair of any system facilities between the meter or turn off valve and
points of delivery.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 52.43 SERVICE LINE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Technical conformity.
      (1)   Water will not be furnished where there are defective or leaking
faucets, closets or other fixtures, or where there are water closets or urinals
without self-closing valves, or tanks without self-acting float valves, and
when such are discovered the supply may be withdrawn.
      (2)   The tap and ferrule and stopcock, at the curb, will be furnished by
the city and remain the property of the city, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere therewith.
      (3)   Within the basement wall a stop and waste cock, protected from
frost, must in all cases be placed, by means of which the service pipes in the
building may be drained at night during the freezing weather. A tap and ferrule
shall be provided on the customer’s line to allow the customer on/off control
of water to the premises.
      (4)   The service pipes from the mains to the walls of the building must
be not less than two feet below the grade.
      (5)   All persons connecting to the city services shall be required to
use only pipe which meets all applicable standards of the State Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Service line location.
      (1)   Service lines shall generally extend at right angles from the main
to a point immediately inside the curb line, or where no curb exists to a point
designated by the City Administrator in accordance with accepted standards on
street width.
      (2)   A service line crossing private property other than that being
served shall not be allowed unless special circumstances warrant and approval
of the City Administrator is obtained.
      (3)   A valve or meter shall not be installed in a driveway area, nor
shall a driveway be constructed over an existing valve or meter.
   (C)   Storage adjacent to valve or meter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to store, maintain or keep any goods, merchandise, material or refuse
within a distance of six feet from any water valve or other appliance in use of
any water connection of the city.
   (D)   Service pipes. The service pipes shall be so arranged that the supply
to each separate house or premises may be controlled by a separate stopcock,
placed within and near the line of the street curb, and one person must pay for
all the water used through said service, for his or her own use or for the use
of others to whom it may be accessible.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
52.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT FEE ON PROPERTY SERVED BY CITY
§ 52.55 FIRE DEPARTMENT FEE ON PROPERTY SERVED BY CITY.
   (A)   Fee. A Fire Department fee is hereby imposed on all water service
accounts served by the city water utility. Said fee shall be initially set and
periodically adjusted by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Use of proceeds. All monies generated by the fee shall be used solely
for the payment of costs associated with fire prevention and suppression,
including those associated with personnel, materials and services, capital
purchases and savings for future capital expenditures, and the implementation
of any intergovernmental agreement(s) for the delivery of fire suppression
services and the administration of said contract by the city.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.43 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment in the
county jail for a term not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Accounting/administrative requirements
   
53.04   Billing procedures
   
53.05   Utility security deposit
   
53.06   Operational requirements
   
53.07   Employees prohibited
   
53.08   Customer’s responsibility
   
53.09   Relocation of electric facilities
   
53.10   Point of delivery
   
53.11   Cost of reconnection/safety work
   
53.12   Temporary service
   
53.13   Recovery of damages
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Electrical energy is furnished within the city limits and to certain
areas outside the city limits.
   (B)   The policies set out in this chapter apply to any account holder
whether that is a person, firm, and corporation or legal entity supplied with
electrical service by the city electrical utility.
   (C)   It is the intent of the city to provide through ordinance and
resolutions, a helpful guide to the customer, the many segments of the
electrical and building industries, and the utility, and to achieve efficient,
effective, uniform, equitable treatment, and safe electrical service for all.
The city respectfully requests cooperation from everyone concerned in attaining
a high quality of electrical service, while ensuring the solvency of this vital
public utility.
   (D)   Policies, maintenance, repair and installation procedures contained in
the city ordinances are founded on standards for safety, economy and
efficiency, in the distribution of electrical energy. Some are a requirement of
service, others are optional and others are recommended. The use of such words
as "shall," "may," "required," and the like indicates the status of the rule.
"Shall," for instance, is a requirement. "Should" is a recommendation. "May" is
at the discretion of the city or customer.
   (E)   Staff personnel of the city are available for advice and consultation
relative to utilization of electrical energy, service requirements and related
situations in new, existing or reconstructed installations.
   (F)   In case of any conflict between any provisions of any rate schedule
and the service policies set out in this chapter, the provision of the rate
schedule shall apply.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSIBILITY. Free of obstruction, natural or manmade. There shall be no
instance where a temporary obstruction can become a permanent obstruction.
   ACCOUNT. A formal record of the debits and credits relating to the customer
who is receiving city-related services.
   ACCOUNT SET-UP FEE. A nonrefundable charge to cover the costs of
establishing a customer account, activating the service, and the reading of the
meter (read-in).
   ADMINISTRATOR. When used in this chapter, shall be held and construed to
mean the City Administrator of the city.
   ANNEXED AREAS. Areas to be added to the city's service area after the
effective date of the ordinance establishing this chapter.
   BILLING DEMAND. Shall be the maximum average kilowatt load used by the
customer for any period of 30 consecutive minutes during the month for which
the bill is rendered as indicated by a demand meter and as adjusted for power
factor.
   BUILDER (DEVELOPER). A holder of an account, either temporary or permanent,
that services a construction location or buildings that are under construction
or recently completed.
   CITY. Means the City of Cascade Locks and its service area.
   CLASS OF SERVICE. The type of service rendered by the city to a customer
under a particular rate schedule.
   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. A holder of an account servicing a commercial business
location.
   CONTRACTOR. Refers to a party doing electrical work as defined by state law.
   COST. Refers to the total cost to the city to construct and install a
facility or provide a service, including labor, equipment, and materials plus
overhead.
   CUSTOMER. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, or governmental
agency supplied with electric service by the city.
   DISCONNECT. Action by a customer to stop service from the city or action by
the city to stop supplying electric service to a customer.
   ELECTRIC SERVICE. Availability of electrical energy at a point of delivery
for use by a customer, whether the energy is actually used or not.
   ENERGY. Electrical energy measured in kilowatt-hours.
   HEATING SEASON. A billing period for a residential customer of the utility
any portion of which occurs between December 1 and February 15.
   KILOWATT (KW). A unit of power equal to 1,000 watts or 1.341 horsepower.
   KILOWATT-HOUR (KWH). The amount of energy delivered in one hour when
delivery is at a constant rate of one kilowatt.
   LATE FEE. A fee which the city assesses a customer in the event the
customer's bill is not paid on or before the fifteenth day of the month. Should
the fifteenth fall on a weekend or a holiday, then payment is due and to be
receipted in the City Hall Office on the next business day by 5:00 p.m.
   LANDLORD. An owner of one or more residential properties that is rented on a
monthly or longer basis for residential purposes.
   LINE EXTENSION.  A branch from, or a continuation of, an existing primary or
secondary distribution circuit, to serve permanent new points of delivery.
   LOAD (DEMAND). The power requirement usually measured in kilowatts, of a
system or piece of equipment, at a given instant or the average rate of energy-
use during any designated short period of time.
   LOAD FACTOR. The ratio of average kilowatt load to kilowatt demand during
any designated period, expressed in percent.
   METER. The instrument used for measuring the energy or power delivered to a
customer.
   MINIMUM MONTHLY BILL.
      (1)   The MINIMUM MONTHLY BILL shall be the greater of either:
         (a)   The basic customer service charge; or
         (b)   Fifty percent of the highest metered demand of the previous 11
months as adjusted for power factor.
      (2)   Higher minimum charges may be required to cover special investments
as established by special contract.
   MONTH. An interval of approximately 30 days between consecutive meter
reading dates; not necessarily a calendar month.
   N.E.C. National Electrical Code.
   N.E.S.C. National Electrical Safety Code.
   PEAK DEMAND. The maximum rate of energy use, measured in kilowatts.
   PERSON. Shall be held to mean and include natural persons of either sex,
associations, partnerships, and corporations, whether acting by themselves or
by a servant, agent, or employee, the singular number shall be held and
construed to include plural, and the masculine pronoun to include feminine.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. That point designated by the city where the city's
facilities and those of the customer are connected.
   PRIMARY SERVICE. Service delivered at the primary distribution voltage.
   PRIMARY VOLTAGE. Any voltage above 750 volts, phase to phase.
   RACEWAY. The approved type of enclosure, conduit, gutter, and the like, used
for protection of conductors.
   RATE SCHEDULE. A formal statement of the charges and conditions for a
particular class or type of service in a given area or location.
   READ-IN. The first meter reading to commence service to a new customer or
reconnected customer.
   READ OUT. The last meter reading to terminate service to an existing
customer.
   READILY ACCESSIBLE. Normally and easily reached during regular daytime
working hours, not subject to being under lock and key, fenced-in, or within a
restricted area.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER BELONGING TO A PROTECTED CLASS. A person who is a
residential customer of a utility who receives state or federal heating
assistance and who is:
      (1)   A low-income senior citizen;
      (2)   An active duty member of the Armed Forces of the United States;
      (3)   A customer whose household includes a seriously ill individual or a
person with a disability;
      (4)   A customer whose household includes a child under the age of 12
months;
      (5)   A customer who belongs to a household where the member of the
household whose earnings are the primary source of support for the household
has died within the past six months; or
      (6)   A customer who belongs to a household where the member of the
household whose earnings are the primary source of support for the household
has lost a job within the past six months.
   SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. An alternating current system connecting the
secondaries of distribution transformers to the service drop or service
lateral.
   SECURITY DEPOSIT. A deposit to guarantee payment for service and a method of
establishing credit with the city.
   SELLER. The person who is also the operator of a cogeneration or small power
production facility.
   SERVICE CONDUCTORS. The supply conductors, which extend from the
transformers to the service equipment on premises being supplied with electric
service.
   SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The necessary equipment to control and meter electric
energy furnished by the utility at its point of delivery to a customer.
   SECONDARY VOLTAGE. Any voltage of 750 volts or less, phase to phase.
   SERVICE DROP. The conductors from the distribution system to the point of
attachment on a customer's building or other support.
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility which:
      (1)   Produces energy solely by the use of biomass, waste, a renewable
resource or any combination thereof;
      (2)   Is owned by a person who is not primarily engaged in the generation
or sale of energy, other than the energy produced from the small power
production facility; and
      (3)   Has a power production capacity, which, together with any other
facilities located at the same site, is not greater than 80 megawatts.
   TEMPORARY SERVICE. Refers to electrical service of short-term or transient
nature, or service to temporary construction operation. A charge shall be made
for temporary service and a contract may be required.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.03 ACCOUNTING/ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following rules, regulations and procedures shall be followed in the
determination of application for electrical service, billing, handling, of
delinquencies, contractual relationship between the customer and city, and
accounting of service charges.
   (A)   Application for service. Any person desiring to purchase electric
current from the city shall make application therefore upon a printed form to
be furnished for that purpose, completed and signed by the applicant and filed
in the office of the Administrator. The application shall contain a description
of the premises where such electric current is desired and the voltage and
rating in amperes, watts, or horsepower of all devices as may be required by
the Administrator.
   (B)   Validity of application.
      (1)   The application is merely a request for service and does not in
itself bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions, nor does it
bind the customer to take service; but if the service is connected, the
application shall become a contract between the customer and the city, and the
customer shall be required to pay monthly minimum charges according to the
applicable rate.
      (2)   No application for electric service shall be accepted, or no new
service shall be furnished to an account holder whether be a person, firm or
corporation who has any delinquent bill, fee or charge with the city until such
bill, fee or charge has been paid in full.
   (C)   Contract. The application provided for in this section shall become a
contract on the part of the person making the same, to pay for the electric
current, at the rate, in the manner, and at the time as hereinafter specified
by the city. The contract shall provide that the city shall have the right to:
      (1)   Charge and collect the rates, fees and other charges as set by the
city.
      (2)   Change the rates, fees and other charges at any time at the
discretion of the city.
      (3)   Disconnect at any time, without notice to the customer.
      (4)   Install meters to register the electric current consumed or the
maximum load or both.
   (D)   Exemption. Said contract shall further provide that the city, its
agents and employees shall not be held responsible for any damage by fire or
other causes resulting from defective wiring or appliances on the premises
supplied with electric current by the city.
   (E)   Validity of contract. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as requiring the city or the Administrator to enter into any contract
or to furnish electric energy to any person applying therefore. The
Administrator is hereby authorized and empowered to refuse to enter into any
such contract or to furnish such electric energy.
   (F)   Term of contract. All contracts shall take effect from the day service
is connected and rates shall be charged and bills rendered from the day the
premises are connected to the city's electrical system. All contracts shall be
binding for the period specified in the contract and shall continue in effect
until 30 days after written notice of discontinuance to administrator is
delivered to his or her office, and until all charges for electrical energy,
fines, and penalties have been paid in full.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.04 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rate schedule. All rate schedules set out in the provisions of or
resolutions dealing with electric utilities shall be based on one month's
service. Normally, meters shall be read and bills rendered at intervals of one
month. A month may be from 27 to 32 consecutive days, but shall not necessarily
be a calendar month. The city reserves the right to read meters and render
bills for longer or shorter periods.
   (B)   Minimum monthly billing. If the calculated bill for energy consumption
and demand is less than the minimum monthly bill (as defined in §
53.02), then the city shall charge the minimum monthly bill. Minimum monthly
billing shall apply only to customers that have demand billings (e.g. public or
commercial accounts).
   (C)   Meter reading. If for any reason, the city is incapable of a meter
reading for any particular period, it may estimate the reading and render a
bill based on this estimate. In the event of appreciable error of any estimate,
the city shall revise such estimate on the basis of the best evidence
available.
   (D)   Payment due date. All charges for electrical energy furnished by the
city shall be due by the fifteenth day of the month. Should the fifteenth fall
on a holiday or a weekend, then payment is due and to be receipted in the City
Hall Office on the next business day by 5:00 p.m.
   (E)   Cancellation or termination of contract. The city shall have the
right, at its option, in addition to all other rights and remedies at law or in
equity, to cancel or terminate the contract under which service is being
supplied or to discontinue the delivery of electric energy with or without
cancellation or termination of such contract in the following situations:
      (1)   Upon the customer's failure to pay, when due, any and all bills
rendered by the city, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Amounts owing on current accounts;
         (b)   Amounts owing on closed accounts;
         (c)   Amounts owing on security deposits; or
         (d)   Amounts owing on account set-up fees.
      (2)   For fraudulent use of service.
      (3)   Theft or illegal diversion of electric energy.
   (F)   Delinquent accounts/late fees. If the city does not receive full
payment on or before the fifteenth day of the month, as designated in §
53.04(D), at 5:00 p.m., the account shall be considered late and delinquent,
and the city shall assess a late fee to this account. The city shall set the
amount of the late fee by resolution.
   (G)   Payment arrangements.
      (1)   If the customer does not plan to make full payment of the amount
due, the customer may contact the city to make payment arrangements. Approval
for any arrangements must come from the Finance Director or designated
representative. Factors to be considered if payment arrangements are to be
approved include:
         (a)   The city's needs.
         (b)   The customer's past payment record and probable ability to meet
payment schedule in light of circumstances causing delayed payments (e.g.
unemployment, illness, and the like).
         (c)   The size of the bill and length of time outstanding.
      (2)   If the customer is not satisfied with the decision of the Finance
Officer, the customer may appeal to the City Administrator. The decision of the
City Administrator is final.
   (H)   Failure to adhere to payment arrangements. If payment arrangements are
made and the customer fails to adhere to them, disconnection of service shall
be made without further notice before noon of the day following the promised
payment date unless that day falls on weekends and holidays. The city shall not
terminate residential service on, or the day prior to, a weekend or holiday.
   (I)   Door hanger/red tag list. The city shall print a door hanger/red tag
list on the last working day of the month, listing those accounts still unpaid.
   (J)   Door hanger/red tag. The city shall write a door hanger tag and place
said tag on the door of the dwelling or business of all accounts on the door
hanger/red tag list that has not made a payment arrangement. A door hanger tag
fee, as set by resolution, shall be assessed by the city at the time the tag is
written.
      (1)   The city shall keep a record of the time and date of placement of
all notices on door hanger tags and the placement of such tag shall constitute
a presumption of notice allowing the city to disconnect service, whether or not
actual notice was provided the home or business owner by placement of such tag.
      (2)   The door hanger tag shall state that the third day following
placement of the tag is the final due date and the customer must pay the amount
due in full by 5:00 p.m. (including the tag fee and late fee) or disconnection
shall occur before noon on the following day unless the date falls on a Friday
or holiday, in which case disconnection shall occur before noon on the next
city business day.
      (3)   If the customer pays the amount stated as due on the door hanger
red tag (including the tag fee and late fee) before the tag is hung, city staff
shall make a reasonable effort to recall the tag so that it is not hung at the
account service location.
   (K)   Restrictions on residential terminations.
      (1)   Physical disabilities. The city shall not terminate service of a
residential customer or refuse to restore service on request if the city had
been advised in writing by a licensed physician, or public or private agency
providing physical or mental health care, that termination of service would
significantly endanger the physical health of the customer or any member of the
customer's household. However, the city reserves the right to install a service
limiter type meter while such certification is in effect.
      (2)   Exceptions. The termination of electric service to a residential
customer belonging to a protected class may not occur if the termination would
occur:
         (a)   During the heating season;
         (b)   On any date for which the National Weather Service forecasts
that the temperature of a location both within this state and the service
territory of the utility will exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit for a period of 12
or more hours; or
         (c)   On any date for which the National Weather Service forecasts
that the temperature of a location both within this state and the service
territory of the utility will be less than 32 degrees Fahrenheit for a period
of 12 or more hours.
   (L)   Designation of third party to receive notice. The city shall offer its
customers the option to designate a third party to receive the notice of
disconnection of service. The customer is responsible for notifying the city of
this option upon initiation of service.
   (M)   Information on financial assistance. The city shall inform residential
customers who cannot pay their bills of the names and telephone numbers of
appropriate units within the State Department of Human Resources or other
social service agencies which may help the customer determine what federal,
state or private aid may be available to that customer.
   (N)   Requirements for restoration of service. If a customer's service has
been properly disconnected under provisions of this chapter, the city shall not
reconnect electrical service at the same or any other place at which the
customer resides without payment in full of any delinquent fees and charges,
together with a new deposit and any reconnection charges. The city shall only
receive payment during regular business hours. If the Administrator determines
that, based on past history or current circumstances, the customer does not
have a sufficient amount on deposit as security with the city, the city may
assess an additional amount for security deposit equal to the previous highest
month's bill.
   (O)   Payment responsibility. When a change of occupancy or other legal
responsibility for payment for electrical service occurs, the owner (as
applicable) and/or customer, shall give the city notice of such change within
two working days prior to such change. The outgoing customer shall be
responsible for payment of all services and charges. The owner shall be
responsible for any unpaid past due amount, only if the owner agrees in writing
that they shall be responsible for said bill.
   (P)   Closing (final bill). Closing bills are due and payable to the city on
presentation. The city reserves the right to read the meter for a final bill
within a period of two working days after the date requested by the customer
and will use best efforts to read or disconnect on the day requested. The city
may disconnect any current electrical service for any customer who fails to pay
or honor payment arrangements on a closed account being held by the city.
   (Q) Penalty on delinquent accounts. The city shall charge a penalty of a
certain percentage as set by resolution on the delinquent portion of all
utility accounts in excess of $500 or more to the customer, beginning on the
thirtieth day following the original due date.
   (R)   Returned check charges. The city may collect a charge as described by
resolution for each check returned by a bank to the city.
   (S)   Rates and fees. The City Council shall set all rates charged for
electrical energy, connection, reconnection and other fees by resolution.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.05 UTILITY SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   A utility security deposit is established in order to secure payment of city
utility services rendered, including electric, water, sewer, CATV, broadband,
and any other utility the city may offer.
   (A)   Amount of deposit. The city shall set the amount of a utility security
deposit by resolution. In the event that the total monthly bill for an account
exceeds this deposit amount for a period of three months within a six-month
period, or if the balance due is over this deposit amount more than three times
in a six-month period and the customer has demonstrated any type of delinquency
with regards to the payment of this account, the Administrator may require an
additional amount be paid so that a larger utility security deposit is being
held for that account. If the customer fails to pay the additional deposit
amounts as required, this shall result in disconnection of services to the
account.
   (B)   Payment of deposit. The city requires the payment of the utility
security deposit in full prior to connection of any services to a new account.
The City Administrator or designated representative may make payment
arrangements for the deposit using guidelines approved by Council. The city
shall not accept or use security deposits to pay amounts due on active
accounts. If a customer fails to pay a due bill and it is necessary to turn off
services, the city shall not restore such services to said customer until she
or he has paid in full all outstanding bills due on all utility services and
all re-connect fees.
   (C)   Requirement for deposit. The city requires a utility security deposit
on each account, regardless of the number or type of utility services it
provides to that account.
   (D)   Variations to requirement for deposit.
      (1)   Commercial customers. A commercial customer who has a security
deposit with the city for an account at a commercial location, shall not be
required to pay a deposit on additional commercial location accounts. Security
deposits on residential accounts of persons who also hold accounts that qualify
as commercial do not qualify to be used for a commercial account deposit.
Residences where home-based businesses are operated shall not be considered
commercial locations, unless the area of the residence being used for the
commercial operation has electric and water meters that are separate from the
electric and water meters that service the residential portion of the location.
      (2)   Builders and developers. A builder or developer who has a security
deposit with the city for an account at one temporary construction location or
permanent development site, shall not be required to pay a deposit on up to
four additional temporary location accounts or permanent development site
accounts. Each additional deposit may also cover a maximum of five accounts.
Security deposits on residential accounts of persons who also hold accounts
that qualify as builder or developer do not qualify to be used for additional
commercial or builder or developer accounts.
      (3)   Landlords. A landlord shall not be required to pay a deposit on
rental location accounts.
      (4)   Residential Customers-A. A residential customer who has a security
deposit with the city for their residential account and is building a new home
in the city that they shall move into when it is completed shall be required to
pay an additional deposit on the account for the new home. When the customer
moves into the new residence and closes the old account, the city shall apply
the security deposit to the final billing. If the amount of the refund exceeds
the final bill, the city shall return the remainder of the refund to the
customer after the next regularly scheduled check run. Non-payment of the
closed account shall result in disconnection of services at the new account
location.
      (5)   Residential Customers-B. A residential customer who has a security
deposit with the city for their residential account and is moving to another
location is required to pay an additional deposit on the account at the new
location. When the customer closes the old account, the city shall apply the
security deposit to the final billing. If the amount of the refund exceeds the
final bill, the city shall return the remainder of the refund to the customer
after the next regularly scheduled check run. Non-payment of the closed account
may result in disconnection of services at the new account location.
   (E)   Grandfathered transition customers.
      (1)   Current utility account customers who have a $150 deposit with the
city paid before November 2004, with the understanding that they would receive
a refund of said deposit after 12 months of a good payment record, shall
receive said refund as per their original agreement with the city.
      (2)   Current utility account customers who do not have a security
deposit with the city or shall have that deposit refunded due to the deposit
refund policy that was repealed in November 2004, shall also be required to
provide a security deposit to the city, prior to resumption of service, under
this policy when one of the following events occurs:
         (a)   The city disconnects an account on two occasions for non-payment
of balances due (a dishonored check qualifies as non-payment) that was used to
make payment on that utility account.
         (b)   The customer closes the account and opens a new account at
another service location within the city's service area.
   (F)   Utility security deposit refund. When an account is closed out, the
city shall apply the security deposit to the final billing. If the amount of
the refund exceeds the final bill, the city shall return the remainder of the
refund to the customer after the next regularly scheduled check run.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.06 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Interruptions and outages. The city shall exercise reasonable
diligence in supplying satisfactory and continuous electric service, but cannot
and does not guarantee a constant and uninterrupted supply of energy. Whenever
necessary for the purpose of making repairs or improvements to its system, the
city shall have the right to temporarily suspend the delivery of electrical
energy but, in such case, the city shall give reasonable notice if
circumstances permit. Whenever an interruption of service can be foreseen, the
city shall attempt to schedule its activities with its customers' needs. Any
interruption shall be of as short a duration as practical under safe operating
conditions.
   (B)   Customer liability. The city shall not be liable for any damage, or
claim of damage, attributable to any interruption or outage of electric
service. If the customer's service fails beyond the point of delivery, he or
she shall endeavor to determine the cause of service failure before calling the
city. If a service person is sent out at the customer's request, and it is
determined that the customer's equipment is at fault, a charge for the service
call as established by resolution may be made.
   (C)   Customer to notify city. The customer is encouraged to materially
assist the city in fulfilling its purposes by promptly notifying the city of
any defects, trouble, or accidents affecting the supply of electricity, or in
the event service is unsatisfactory for any reason.
   (D)   City inspection and responsibility. Inspection of electrical wiring
and equipment for compliance with codes and regulations other than those of the
city is the responsibility of the appropriate governmental body having
jurisdiction. The person desiring electrical service must obtain the
appropriate approvals and certificates prior to connection of the city's
service.
      (1)   The Administrator may, before connecting any premises with the
city's circuits or furnishing electric current therefrom, cause the wiring,
appliances and fixtures to be carefully inspected, and until such wiring,
appliances and fixtures are put on proper condition, satisfactory to the
Administrator, or his or her representatives, decline to connect the service
wires with the city's circuit, and he or she shall have the power at any time
to disconnect the service from any premises where the wiring, appliances or
fixtures shall become or are found to be defective or dangerous until the same
are repaired to the satisfaction of the Administrator or his or her
representative.
      (2)   The city shall have the right, but shall not be obligated to
inspect the customer's wiring or equipment before service is supplied and at
any future time as determined by the city. However, nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as placing upon the city any responsibility for the
inspection of, the condition of, or the maintenance of the customer's wiring,
energy-consuming devices or other equipment.
      (3)   The city shall not be held liable for any loss or damage to persons
or property resulting from defects beyond the point of delivery caused by the
customer's installation or equipment or the delivery of energy thereto.
   (E)   Connection to system. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than
the Administrator, or his or her authorized representative or agent of the
city, to connect any house, building, premises, wire, appliance or other device
to the city's electrical system for the purpose of obtaining electrical energy
or for any other purpose whatever.
   (F)   Unauthorized pole attachment prohibited. A person must obtain written
permission from the city before he or she attaches any equipment or material of
any description to any utility pole, guy wire, electrical equipment, hardware
or other property of the city. The city may charge fees as established by
resolution for this coordination work.
   (G)   Right to trim trees. City employees may trim trees on private property
if such trees, in the judgement of the Administrator or his or her
representative, shall create a hazard to electric service lines on the same or
adjacent properties. If the property owner refuses permission to trim trees,
they shall be liable for all damages and costs to repair any portion of the
electrical system damaged by such trees.
   (H)   Changes to customer electrical load. It shall be unlawful for any
customer to add devices requiring electrical energy, which is beyond the
capacity of the existing service (to his or her premises). In the event the
customer desires to change his load materially, he or she shall notify the
city, sufficiently in advance, so that the city may, if economically feasible,
provide the facilities required. In the event that the customer fails to notify
the city and, as a result, the city's equipment is damaged, the customer may be
liable for the cost of such damage.
   (I)   Unlawful connections. It shall be unlawful for any customer to connect
his or her service with that of any other person, or to in any way supply any
other person or premises with electric current through his or her service,
without first filing a written application for such connection or use at the
office of the Administrator and receiving a written permit for said connection.
   (J)   Ownership of meters and other improvements. All meters, wires and
other facilities or equipment furnished and installed by the city, within or on
the customer's premises shall be and remain, the property of the city and may
be removed by the city.
   (K)   Meter installations. The city shall determine and designate all meter
locations. The city shall spot the meter in a readily accessible location
outside the building so the center of the meter, or top row of multiple meter
installations is 5½ feet (plus or minus six inches) above finished ground level
or walkway at that point, unless the city specifically approves an alternate
location. The city must approve any exceptions before installation.
   (L)   Accessibility. All customers shall provide readily accessible and safe
access to all utility meters, poles, lines, transformers, and the like on their
property. The customer is responsible for keeping obstructions away from all
electrical system parts. Customers shall not place meters under porches,
carports or breezeways, over open pits, moving machinery, hatchways, in the
path of falling water, where vegetation, or where animals limit accessibility,
or where the meter may be subjected to excessive vibration or possible
mechanical damage. In cases of remodeling or subsequent construction, including
building of fences or other enclosures, the customer shall maintain ready
accessibility to the city's meter and equipment. The city does not consider a
key as acceptable for obtaining access to a meter.
   (M)   Failure to provide accessibility. If a customer fails to establish and
maintain ready and safe accessibility to all utility system parts on or
adjacent to their point of delivery, service drop meter, then the city shall
carry out the following procedures:
      (1)   Notice to customer. The city shall give written notice to the
customer that shall include the date, time and reason why city utility
employees were unable to maintain that portion of the city's utility system on
or adjacent to the customer's property. The city shall give this notice within
three working days of determination that a problem exists at a specific
location. The customer shall have two working days from receipt of this notice
to make the city utility system accessible to city utility employees. In the
interim, the city shall bill energy consumption, demand and other charges to
the customer based upon an estimate as determined by the city.
      (2)   Second notice to customer. If the accessibility problem persists,
the city shall provide a second notice to the customer that the initial problem
has not been corrected or has reoccurred and continues to prevent city
employees from carrying out their duties. The city shall give the customer
another three working days to correct the problem and assess a service charge
as set by resolution. The city shall continue to bill energy consumption,
demand and other charges to the customer based upon an estimate as determined
by the city.
      (3)   Failure to heed notice. The city shall disconnect those customers
from its system at the point of delivery when the customer has failed to heed
the two notices above and make all city utility system parts readily and safely
accessible to city utility employees, to the satisfaction of the utility
department manager.
   (N)   Meter seals. At the time of installation, the city shall seal the
meter and no person shall tamper with or break the seal without prior
authorization from the city. The city shall consider any tampering with the
meter or unauthorized breaking of the seal as evidence of fraud.
   (O)   Separate meters for different rate classifications. If the customer
desires to use electricity for purposes classified under different rates, the
city shall install separate meters to measure the current supplied at each rate
and charge for the electricity passing through each meter at prices specified
in the rate schedule for such separate uses.
   (P)   Meter failure. Should any meter fail to register correctly the amount
of energy or power used by the customer, the city shall estimate the amount of
such use from the best available evidence.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Unlawful employee compensation. It shall be unlawful for any
inspector, agent or employee of the city ask, demand, receive or accept any
personal compensation for any service rendered to consumers of electric
current, or other persons, in connection with supplying or furnishing
electrical energy by the city.
   (B)   Promise of service. No promise, agreement or representation of any
employee or agent of the city, with reference to the furnishing of electric
energy, shall be binding on the city, unless the same shall be in writing
signed by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 CUSTOMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Wiring and equipment. The customer shall install, own, and maintain
all wiring and equipment beyond the point of delivery, except meters and
special facilities installed or furnished by the city. The customer's wiring
shall conform to all requirements of legally constituted authorities having
jurisdiction, including county codes or ordinances, ordinances and resolutions
of the city, the National Board of Fire Underwriters, the Oregon Bureau of
Labor, and the National Electrical Code.
   (B)   Equipment required by city. The customer shall furnish and install an
underwriter's approved meter socket, or sockets, as specified by the city, for
the installation of the city's metering equipment. If instrument transformers
are required, the customer shall furnish and install mounting brackets, a
suitable enclosure, and necessary conduit, as specified by the city. It shall
be the customer's responsibility to provide suitable protective devices such as
fuses, circuit breakers, and relays, to adequately protect his or her
equipment. For the protection of three phase motors, the installation of three
thermal over-current devices and, in addition, dual element delay fuses or
circuit breakers of suitable rating are considered necessary. The city reserves
the right to refuse or discontinue service to customer's equipment or wiring,
where such equipment or wiring is in hazardous condition, or not in conformity
with lawful codes and local regulations. The city shall not be held liable for
any loss or damage to person, or property, resulting from defects beyond the
point of delivery, or in the customer's installation of equipment, or the
delivery of energy thereto.
   (C)   Protection of city property. The customer shall take all reasonable
and proper precautions to prevent damage to city property and facilities on his
or her premises. In the event that the property of the city is damaged because
of the customer's negligence, the city may collect the cost of repairs or
replacements from the customer.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.09 RELOCATION OF ELECTRIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   Overhead lines. In the event any customer requests his or her delivery
point be moved to a new location on an existing structure, the city may remove
and reconnect its overhead service drop at the new delivery point, without cost
to the customer. If relocation of a pole or other equipment is required, the
customer shall pay for all materials, labor, and overhead required to serve the
new delivery point. Where underground service is provided, the customer shall
not relocate the delivery points without permission from the city and written
agreement by the customer to assume all costs of relocation.
   (B)   Relocation feasibility. In the event a customer wants either overhead
or underground facilities relocated, the city may move the facilities if the
move is feasible operationally, necessary rights-of-way can be obtained, and
the customer agrees to pay in advance an amount sufficient to cover all costs
of the relocation. Persons requesting relocations of facilities must make
satisfactory arrangements for the transfer or relocation of equipment owned by
any other utility and any third party which may be involved, including any
underground service facilities.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.10 POINT OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   Location. All of the equipment on the customer's side of the point of
delivery shall belong to and be the responsibility of the customer, except
meters and metering equipment and any other equipment provided by the city.
   (B)   Notice in advance of installation. The customer is responsible to
advise the city at the earliest time possible of his or her service
requirements in advance of installing service entrance equipment. The city
shall meter each point of delivery separately.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.11 COST OF RECONNECTION/SAFETY WORK.
   Except for the initial installation of a service, the city shall charge the
customer a fee set by resolution for each trip made if a reconnect is requested
by the customer. Work performed by the city to provide electric safety on
customer's premises shall not be subject to this charge.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.12 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   The city may provide service to temporary construction as follows:
   (A)   The city shall bill for energy used for temporary single phase service
for construction of a single family residence or duplex at the residential
rate, in addition to the charge for installation and removal.
   (B)   The city shall bill for energy used for temporary single phase and/or
three phase service, if available, for construction of apartments, offices,
schools, churches, commercial and industrial buildings or similar facilities
and to provide energy for fruit stands, fairs, field offices, Christmas tree
lots, and the like at the applicable rate schedule in addition to the charge
for installation and removal.
   (C)   Contracts covering temporary service in the underground network where
overhead service is not available may contain service and cost provisions
separate and distinct from other temporary service requirements.
   (D)   Customer's terminal and intermediate support installations for
receiving temporary service must maintain N.E.S.C. clearances, be structurally
safe and provide an adequate support at the point of the attachment.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 RECOVERY OF DAMAGES.
   Any person or persons who, as the result of violating any of the provisions
of this chapter, cause any expenses, loss, or damage to the city shall
immediately become liable to the city for the full sum of such expense, loss,
or damage. The Council may, at its discretion, instruct the City Attorney to
proceed against any such person or persons, in any court of competent
jurisdiction, in a civil action to be brought in the name of the city for the
recovery of the full sum of any such expense, loss, or damage sustained by the
city.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons found guilty of theft of service or fraudulent use of
service or willfully damaging any portion of the electrical system shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $500, or by
imprisonment for not more than 100 days, or both. Any person or persons
violating any other of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $50 per day. The city shall
file a separate complaint for each day a violation continues beyond
notification given under this chapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-26-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   IMPOUNDMENT
      
76.   TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
70.03   Definitions
Pedestrians
   
70.15   Use of sidewalks
   
70.16   Right angles
   
70.17   Obedience to traffic lights
Administration
   
70.30   Power of the Council
   
70.31   Duties of City Administrator
   
70.32   Public danger
   
70.33   Standards
   
70.34   Authority of law enforcement and emergency crew officers
Schedule of Fines
   
70.45   Schedule of parking fines
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be cited as “Cascade Locks Uniform Traffic Ordinance.”
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 70.02 APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Violation of a provision of the Oregon Vehicle Code, as amended, being
O.R.S. Chs. 801 through 826 is an offense against the city.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to those definitions contained in the state laws enumerated in §
70.02, for the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. As used
in this title, the singular includes the plural and the masculine includes the
feminine.
   BICYCLE. A non-motorized vehicle designated to be ridden, propelled by human
power and having one or more wheels the diameter of which are in excess of ten
inches or having two or more wheels where any one wheel has a diameter in
excess of 15 inches.
   BUS STOP. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use by
buses loading or unloading passengers.
   HAZARDOUS VEHICLE. For purposes of this title, the following, by way of
illustration and not limitation, shall be deemed to be HAZARDOUS to the traffic
or public safety:
      (1)   Vehicles blocking a public or private right-of-way;
      (2)   Vehicles leaking fluids other than water;
      (3)   Vehicles blocking fire hydrants or emergency access routes; and
      (4)   A vehicle left in a location or condition that constitutes an
immediate and continuous hazard to the safety of persons using the streets or
alleys of the city.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. For purposes of this title, the term LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall mean:
      (1)   The City Administrator or any person designated by the City
Administrator to enforce ordinances within the boundaries of the city; and
      (2)   Any certified peace officer acting in a capacity as such and
authorized either by statute, the City Council or the City Administrator to
enforce law and/or ordinances within the boundaries of the city.
   LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified hours
or specified days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including tractors,
fork-lift trucks, motorcycles, road-building equipment, street-cleaning
equipment and any other vehicle capable of moving under its own power,
notwithstanding that the vehicle may be exempt from licensing under the motor
vehicle laws of the state.
   PARK or PARKING. The condition of:
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is stopped while occupied by its operator with
the engine turned off; and
      (2)   A motor vehicle that is stopped while unoccupied by its operator
whether or not the engine is turned off.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person on the public right-of-way except:
      (1)   The operator or passenger of a motor vehicle or bicycle; and
      (2)   A person leading, driving or riding an animal or animal-drawn
conveyance.
   ROLLERSKATING. The use of any solid wheeled shoe skate or snap-on, lace or
gripping device to hold a shoe or foot in place while propelling any wheel on a
shoe. ROLLERSKATES as defined includes rollerblades.
   SKATEBOARDING. The use of any propelled riding device making use of wheels
of any size except wheelchairs. SKATEBOARDING means any movement of such
devices under its own power after being propelled or the application of a force
to cause it to move in any direction.
   STAND or STANDING. The stopping of a motor vehicle while occupied by its
operator with the engine running except stopping in obedience to the
instructions of a traffic officer or traffic-control device or for other
traffic.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STREET and OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. Have the following
meanings:
      (1)   STREET. The terms “highway,” “road” and “street,” when used in this
title or in the Oregon Revised Statutes chapters incorporated herein, shall be
considered synonymous, unless the context precludes such construction. STREET,
as defined in this title and the Oregon Revised Statutes chapters incorporated
by reference herein, includes alleys, sidewalks and parking areas and
accessways owned or maintained by the city.
      (2)   OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
         (a)   Property whether publicly or privately owned and whether
publicly or privately maintained, upon which the public operates motor vehicles
either by express or implied invitation other than streets as defined in this
section.
         (b)   OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL shall include, but not be
limited to, parking lots, service station lots, shopping center and supermarket
parking lots, and other accessways and parking areas open to general vehicular
traffic, whether or not periodically closed to public use.
   TAXICAB STAND. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for use
by taxicabs.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. A device to direct vehicular or pedestrian traffic,
including, but not limited to, a sign, signaling mechanism, barricade, button
or street or curb marking installed by the city or other authority.
   TRAFFIC LANE. That area of the roadway used for the movement of a single
line of traffic.
   VEHICLE. As used in this title includes bicycles.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.15 USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   A pedestrian shall not use a roadway for travel when a sidewalk is
available.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 RIGHT ANGLES.
   A pedestrian shall cross a street at right angle, unless crossing within a
crosswalk.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LIGHTS.
   At an intersection where a pedestrian control light is in operation, no
pedestrian shall start to cross the street except when the walk signal is
illuminated. Where only vehicle control lights are in operation, no pedestrian
shall start to cross the street except when the green light is illuminated.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.30 POWER OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall, by resolution, exercise
all municipal traffic authority for the city, except those powers specifically
and expressly delegated herein or by another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of one-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of parking meter zones;
      (5)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage;
      (6)   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law;
      (7)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones; and
      (8)   Revision of speed limits in parks.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 70.31 DUTIES OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator, or the Administrator’s designee, shall exercise the
following duties:
   (A)   Implement the ordinances, resolutions and motions of the Council and
his or her own orders by installing traffic-control devices. The City
Administrator may authorize the placement of traffic- control devices. Such
installation shall be based on the standards contained in the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, United States Department of
Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, latest edition, to and include
the state supplements thereto concerning standard practices and interpretations
and additional traffic signs as they are now constituted;
   (B)   Establish, maintain, remove or alter the following classes of traffic
controls:
      (1)   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes;
      (2)   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right turns, left turns or U-turns, and the time when the
prohibition applies; and
      (3)   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form or
permissible parking (e.g., parallel or diagonal).
   (C)   Issue oversize or overweight vehicle permits;
   (D)   Enforce all provisions of this title; and
   (E)   Establishing residential parking zones pursuant to §
73.04.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 70.32 PUBLIC DANGER.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the City
Administrator, or the Administrator’s designee, may install temporary traffic-
control devices deemed by him or her to be necessary.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 70.33 STANDARDS.
   The regulations of the City Administrator shall be based upon:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations and rules promulgated by the State Highway
Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic-control standards.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 70.34 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND EMERGENCY CREW OFFICERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officers, or any other city
official designated by the City Administrator, to enforce the provisions of
this title.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other public emergency, law enforcement
officers and emergency service crew members may direct traffic as conditions
require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
SCHEDULE OF FINES
§ 70.45 SCHEDULE OF PARKING FINES.
   (A)   The initial schedule of fines for certain violations of the provisions
of this title shall be as follows:
 
Violation                                      Fine
Illegal parking in a designated handicap space $450
Parking in violation of §                     $20
71.01
Parking in violation of §                     $25
73.05
Parking in violation of §§                   $15
73.01(A) or (B)
All other parking violations                   $25
 
   (B)   Fines for violation of this title may be set or amended by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 427, passed 10-28-2013)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as may be limited by Charter, violations of any state statute
made offenses against this city are punishable to the same extent as provided
in the statutes.
   (B)   Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of §§
71.01 through
71.03,
72.01 through
72.07 and
74.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding exceed $100 for each violation.
   (C)   Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of all other
provisions of this title not enumerated above or by §
70.45 are punishable by a fine not to exceed $50 for each violation.
   (D)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this title constitutes a
separate offense for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to and alteration of control devices
   
71.02   Control devices; evidence of lawful installation
   
71.03   Existing control devices
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO AND ALTERATION OF CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall disobey the instructions of a traffic officer or a
traffic-control device.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall install, move, remove, obstruct, alter
the position of, deface or tamper with a traffic-control device.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 CONTROL DEVICES; EVIDENCE OF LAWFUL INSTALLATION.
   The existence of a traffic-control device shall be prima facie evidence that
the device was lawfully authorized and installed.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 71.03 EXISTING CONTROL DEVICES.
   Traffic-control devices installed prior to the adoption of the ordinance
codified in this title are lawfully authorized.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Rules of the road
   
72.02   Crossing private property
   
72.03   Emerging from vehicle
   
72.04   Unlawful riding
   
72.05   Clinging to vehicles
   
72.06   Play streets
   
72.07   Damaging or obstructing public ways
   
72.08   Obstructing streets
   
72.09   Removing glass and debris
   
72.10   Funeral procession
   
72.11   Careless driving
§ 72.01 RULES OF THE ROAD.
   In addition to state law, the following shall apply to the operation of
vehicles upon the streets of the city.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless the
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other
traffic, and shall yield the right-of-way to moving traffic and pedestrians:
when the vehicle involved is a truck, then in addition to the foregoing a
person acting as a traffic controller shall be present for the purpose of
controlling vehicular traffic.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle in the traffic lane shall have the right-of-
way over an operator of a vehicle departing from a parking space.
   (C)   No operator of a vehicle shall pull away from a curb or other parking
area without giving an appropriate turn signal when other traffic may be
affected.
   (D)   Where a stop sign is erected at or near the entrance to an
intersection, the operator of a vehicle approaching shall bring the vehicle to
a stop before crossing a stop line or crosswalk; or, if none, then before
entering the intersection. Stopping at a point which does not yield an
unobstructed view of traffic on the intersecting street shall not constitute
compliance with the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Notwithstanding an indication by a traffic-control device to proceed:
      (1)   No operator of a vehicle shall enter an intersection unless there
is sufficient space on the opposite side of the intersection to accommodate his
or her vehicle without obstructing the passage of other vehicles; and
      (2)   No operator of a vehicle shall enter a marked crosswalk, whether or
not at an intersection, unless there is sufficient space on the opposite side
of the crosswalk to accommodate his or her vehicle without obstructing the
passage of pedestrians.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a vehicle shall proceed from one street to an intersecting
street by crossing private property. This provision shall not apply to the
operator of a vehicle who stops on the property for the purpose of procuring or
providing goods or services.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 EMERGING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle into a traffic lane without
first ascertaining that it can be done in safety.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No operator shall permit a passenger and no passenger shall ride on a
vehicle upon a street except on a portion of the vehicle designed or intended
for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to a person riding within a
truck body in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person shall alight from a vehicle while the vehicle is in motion
upon a street.
   (C)   No person riding upon a bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled or other device shall attach the device, or himself or herself to a moving
vehicle upon a street; nor shall the operator of a vehicle upon a street
knowingly allow a person riding on any of the above vehicles or devices to
attach himself, herself, the vehicle or the device to the vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall use the streets for traveling on skis, toboggans,
sleds or similar devices, except where authorized.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon a bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
skateboard or other device shall attach the device, or himself or herself to a
moving vehicle upon a street. Nor shall the operator of a vehicle upon a street
knowingly allow a person riding on any of the above vehicles or devices to
attach himself, herself, the vehicle or the device to his or her vehicle.
Exceptions may be made to this section, upon authorization of the police
officer, for the purpose of conducting parades or displays.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PLAY STREETS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street during the hours when it has
been designated and is being used as a play street, except drivers having
business on such street or whose residences are along such street, and then
such driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving on such street.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 DAMAGING OR OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or roadside
planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall place dirt, wood or other material in the
gutter or space next to the curb of a street with the intention of using it as
a driveway.
   (C)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or
device moved by a motor vehicle upon a curb or sidewalk without first obtaining
authorization and posting bond if required. A person who causes damage shall be
held responsible for the cost of repair.
   (D)   No person shall place or deposit, or allow to be placed or deposited,
any dirt, gravel, mud, junk, debris or tree, grass or shrubbery clippings or
other unauthorized material on any street, parking area or sidewalk area. (This
includes the operation of any kind of vehicle or equipment that results in the
placing, depositing or allowing said materials to be placed on a street,
parking area or sidewalk area.)
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall obstruct the free movement of vehicles or
pedestrians using the streets.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in such a manner or location
that it constitutes a hazardous vehicle or an obstruction on the street.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other
debris to be upon a street shall remove the glass and other debris from the
street.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (A)   A permit shall not be required to conduct a funeral procession.
   (B)   The procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the most
direct route which is both legal and practicable.
   (C)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
   (D)   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
   (E)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (F)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 72.11 CARELESS DRIVING.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on other property open to public
travel in a careless manner. As used in this section, A CARELESS MANNER means
in a manner that endangers or would be likely to endanger any person or
property.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Method of parking
   
73.02   Prohibited parking and standing
   
73.03   Prohibited parking
   
73.04   Residential parking zones
   
73.05   Use of loading zone
   
73.06   Leaving vehicle unattended
   
73.07   Action by law enforcement officer
   
73.08   Extension of parking time
   
73.09   Exemptions
Snow Emergencies
   
73.20   Declaration of snow emergency
   
73.21   Snow emergency signs
   
73.22   Allowing vehicles to stall on snow emergency routes
Bus and Taxicab Stands
   
73.35   Standing or parking of buses and taxicabs
   
73.36   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Prohibited Parking
   
73.50   Unlawful parking; towing authorized
   
73.51   Placement of citations
   
73.52   Outstanding warrants; impound or arrest
   
73.53   Illegal stopping, standing or parking
   
73.54   Registration search; notice to owner
   
73.55   Claiming vehicles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches
of the edge of the curb, except, upon the authority of the City Administrator,
where the street is marked or signed for angle parking.
   (B)   Where parking space markings are placed on a street, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle other than in the indicated direction and, unless the
size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance impossible, within a single
marked space.
   (C)   The operator who first begins maneuvering his or her motor vehicle
into a vacant parking space on a street shall have priority to park in that
space, and no other vehicle operator shall attempt to deprive him or her or his
or her priority or block his or her access.
   (D)   Whenever the operator of a vehicle discovers that his or her vehicle
is parked close to a building to which emergency fire, police or medical
personnel have been summoned, the operator shall immediately remove the vehicle
from the area, unless otherwise directed by emergency crew members at the
scene.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 PROHIBITED PARKING AND STANDING.
   In addition to the state motor vehicle laws prohibiting parking, no person
shall park or stand:
   (A)   A vehicle upon a bridge, viaduct or other elevated structure used as a
street or within a street tunnel unless authorized;
   (B)   A motor truck having a gross vehicle weight of five tons or greater in
any residential area of the city and on Wa-Na-Pa Street between Oneonta and
Venture Streets, with the exception of delivery trucks which may be parked
while attended for a time long enough to effectuate delivery;
   (C)   Any motor vehicle within 25 feet of an intersection;
   (D)   A vehicle in any alley other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of persons or materials but in no case for a period in excess of 30
consecutive minutes;
   (E)   A motor truck as defined by O.R.S. 801.355, a truck tractor as defined
by O.R.S. 801.575 and/or a semi-trailer as defined in O.R.S. 801.475, which is
allowed to idle or is equipped with an on-board motor, such as a refrigeration
device motor, which is running on a street between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. of the following day in front or adjacent to a residence, motel,
apartment house, hotel or other sleeping accommodation if the idling or
operation of the motor disturbs the sleep of anyone in the area and that person
files a complaint with a law enforcement agency;
   (F)   A vehicle upon a parkway or freeway, except as authorized;
   (G)   No trailer or semi-trailer with a bed or box in excess of five feet in
width and eight feet in length shall be parked upon any residential public
street for a period longer than four hours unless it is loading or unloading
except with the express written permission of the City Administrator or his or
her designee. This prohibition shall not apply to trailers or semi-trailers
owned or operated by governmental units or public or private utility companies;
   (H)   An unlicensed motor vehicle or trailer on any public street or right-
of-way;
   (I)   An un-mounted camper on any public street or right-of-way;
   (J)   A vehicle in a designated fire lane; and/or
   (K)   A vehicle, or personal property, for more than 48 hours in one
location on a public street or other public property or for more than 48 hours
within the same block or for more than 48 hours within 200 feet of any one
parking location, except that a recreational vehicle is limited to a maximum of
24 hours.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No operator shall park and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be parked upon
a street for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
   (C)   Displaying advertising from the vehicle;
   (D)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized by the
City Administrator; and/or
   (E)   Sleeping or residing in the vehicle.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RESIDENTIAL PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Administrator, pursuant to §
70.31(E) may establish residential parking zones. The purpose of residential
parking zones during specific time periods within specific geographic areas
used predominately for residential purposes. Permits may be issued by the city
to allow for the parking of vehicles within the zone during the restricted
hours.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall establish procedures and standards for
the issuance of permanent and temporary permits to residents that will allow
the residents and their guests to park their vehicles within residential
parking zones during the restricted hours. At a minimum, the Administrator
shall establish rules which establish the criteria for issuance, surrender and
revocation of permits, evidence of proof residence and vehicle ownership, terms
of the permit, standards for display of permits and allow for the issuance of
temporary permits to residents for the parking of nonresident vehicles for
temporary periods upon a showing of reasonable need for such permits.
   (C)   The City Administrator may cause to be installed and maintained,
pursuant to §
70.31, official signs for residential parking zones which clearly identify the
parking restrictions for nonresidents and the exception to those restrictions
for permit holders within the residential parking zones.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Provide false information in connection with an application for a
permanent or temporary permit;
      (2)   Fail to surrender a permit, when requested to do so, when the
person is no longer entitled to the permit;
      (3)   Use a permit when the permit holder is no longer entitled to the
permit;
      (4)   Use or allow the use of a permit in conjunction with a vehicle
other than the vehicle for which the permit was issued; and
      (5)   Use or allow the use of a temporary permit in a manner inconsistent
with the terms and limitation of the permit.
   (E)   The City Administrator is authorized to revoke any permit when the
permit holder is found to be in violation of the provisions of this section,
and, upon written notification thereof, the permit holder shall surrender the
permit to the Administrator. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of
this section.
   (F)   Any rule or regulation implemented may be appealed to the City Council
within 30 days of its adoption.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time,
other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or materials, in
a place designated as a loading zone when the hours applicable to that loading
zone are in effect. In no case when the hours applicable to the loading zone
are in effect shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed the
time limits posted. If no time limits are posted, then the use of the zone
shall not exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   No operator or person in charge of a motor vehicle shall park it or allow it
to be parked on a street, or other property open to public travel, or on a new
or used car lot without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the ignition key from the vehicle and effectively setting the brake.
If the vehicle is attended, the ignition key need not be removed.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 ACTION BY LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Whenever a law enforcement officer finds a motor vehicle unattended with the
ignition key in the vehicle in violation of §
73.06, the law enforcement officer is authorized to remove the key from vehicle
and deliver the key to the City Administrator.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.08 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   Where maximum parking limits are designated by sign, movement of a vehicle
within a block shall not extend the time limits for parking.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.08,
73.20 through
73.22,
73.35 and
73.36, regulating the parking or standing of vehicles, shall not apply to a
vehicle of the city, county or state or public utility while necessarily in use
for construction or repair work on a street, or a vehicle owned by the United
States while in use for the collection, transportation or delivery of mail or a
vehicle of a disabled person, properly permitted, parking in compliance with
the provisions of O.R.S. 811.635 to 811.637.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 73.20 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Administrator or his or her designee finds, on the
basis of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by
the National Weather Service of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather
conditions will make it necessary to restrict or prohibit parking on city
streets for snow plowing or other purposes, the City Administrator or his or
her designee may declare a snow emergency, which shall put into effect a
parking prohibition on the city or public rights-of-way of all city streets.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by announcement of the City Administrator or his or her
designee in accordance with this subchapter. While the prohibition is in
effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any
portion of a public street right-of-way, however, nothing in this section shall
be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is otherwise
forbidden by any other provision of law.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SNOW EMERGENCY SIGNS.
   At the time of declaration of snow emergency, signs announcing the snow
emergency and stating that parking is prohibited shall be placed or uncovered
at appropriate locations within the city, calculated to provide notice to
motorists and vehicle operators that parking on the public right-of-way shall
be prohibited and that vehicles parked in violation of said prohibition may be
towed at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.22 ALLOWING VEHICLES TO STALL ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this subchapter, on any part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect, the person operating such vehicle shall take immediate
action to have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of such snow
emergency route.
   (B)   No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway of
a snow emergency route except for the purpose of securing assistance during the
actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or garage, gasoline station
or other place of assistance and return without delay.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS
§ 73.35 STANDING OR PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle upon a
street in a business district at a place other than a bus stop or taxicab
stand, respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the operator
of a taxicab from temporarily stopping his or her vehicle outside a traffic
lane while loading or unloading passengers.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.36 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a taxicab in a taxicab
stand, or a bus in a bus stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle
may temporarily stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading passengers, when stopping does not interfere with a bus or taxicab
waiting to enter or about to enter the restricted space.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITED PARKING
§ 73.50 UNLAWFUL PARKING; TOWING AUTHORIZED.
   Any vehicle found on any street, avenue, public place, city-owned or city-
operated property, parked unlawfully or in such a manner as to be a hazardous
vehicle under conditions then existing, or left on any street, avenue, public
place, city-owned or city-operated property indefinitely by reason of wreckage,
damage, theft, abandonment or neglect, may be towed to such storage area as a
law enforcement officer may direct.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.51 PLACEMENT OF CITATIONS.
   If no person is in charge of such vehicle, but if the vehicle is not in a
position as to be a hazardous vehicle or as to prevent the proper parking of
another vehicle, the law enforcement officer may place a traffic citation in or
on the vehicle or have the vehicle towed as provided for in §
73.53. If the vehicle is occupied the citation shall be served upon the
occupant.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.52 OUTSTANDING WARRANTS; IMPOUND OR ARREST.
   In cases where a warrant is on file charging a traffic violation, the
vehicle involved in such violation shall, if unoccupied, be impounded and a
citation applied as herein above provided; but if the owner or person lawfully
in possession is present, the officer shall place that person under arrest. The
owner or person entitled to possession shall obtain a clearance from the City
Administrator of such warrant before obtaining possession of the vehicle.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.53 ILLEGAL STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
   In the event any vehicle shall be found standing, stopped or parked in or
upon any street, avenue, public place, city-owned or city-operated property in
violation of and contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter applicable
to standing, stopping or parking of vehicles, such vehicle may be given a
citation and be removed by a law enforcement officer to such place as may be
designated by the City Administrator and there kept until application for its
redemption shall be made by the owner or his or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.54 REGISTRATION SEARCH; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   If within three days after impoundment no one appears to establish ownership
or the right to possession of the vehicle, the law enforcement officer shall
search the motor vehicle registration records and the vehicle for the name and
address of the owner or person entitled to possession and send notice to such
person if the name and address are discovered. Notice shall disclose the
whereabouts of the vehicle and the reason for its impoundment.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 73.55 CLAIMING VEHICLES.
   When any vehicle has been towed, the owner or person entitled to possession
thereof may obtain possession upon showing adequate evidence of a right to its
possession and paying the charges due for towing and storage, and a fine in the
amount of not less than $35 in any case where a vehicle was parked in a
hazardous manner, and a fine in the amount of not less than $20 in all other
cases. The vehicle shall only be released to a licensed and insured driver if
the vehicle is to be driven from the tow site.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Skateboard and roller skate operating rules
Bicycles
   
74.15   Bicycle equipment
   
74.16   Bicycle operating rules
   
74.17   Impounding of bicycles
Bicycle Trail and Footpath Regulations
   
74.30   Operating vehicles
   
74.31   Parking vehicles
Off-Road Vehicles
   
74.45   Definitions
   
74.46   Operation of off-road vehicles
Mobile Homes
   
74.60   Occupancy unlawful
   
74.61   Temporary occupancy permit
   
74.62   Interpretation
Travel Trailers
   
74.75   Definition
   
74.76   Occupancy permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 SKATEBOARD AND ROLLER SKATE OPERATING RULES.
   (A)   In addition to observing all other applicable provisions of this
title, other pertinent city ordinances and state law, a person using a
skateboard or rollerskates shall:
      (1)   Not skate upon a sidewalk in front of any business or commercial
establishment;
      (2)   Not skate upon any private property without the knowledge and
consent of the owner;
      (3)   Not skate upon any travel portion of any street or road if there is
a paved sidewalk or pedestrian path;
      (4)   Yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on sidewalks or paths;
      (5)   On a two-way street with no sidewalk, skate to the extreme right.
On a one-way street with no sidewalk, ride to the extreme curbside of the
traffic lane and with the direction of travel designated for that lane. On the
traffic lane of any street, yield the right-of-way to all motor vehicles and
immediately take whatever steps are necessary, including stopping and moving
out of the traffic lane, to avoid interfering in any way with motor vehicle
traffic or creating a dangerous situation;
      (6)   Not ride abreast of another skater or bicycle or in any manner
other than single file when on any street, road or sidewalk;
      (7)   Not skate in a careless or reckless manner which endangers, or
would be likely to endanger, himself, herself, another or any property; and
      (8)   Not skate on any city park property or other public property except
when using areas or facilities specifically designated for or approved for
skateboarding and/or in-line skating. When using any such facility, skaters
shall strictly comply with any and all posted rules for the facility. The City
Administrator and any other officer or official of the city shall have the
authority to exclude, either permanently or for a specific period of time, any
individual or individuals who fail to follow these rules, and failure to obey
any such order to stop using the facility and/or leave the park shall
constitute another and separate offense.
   (B)   The parent of any minor found skateboarding or rollerskating in
violation of this section may be cited under this section.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
BICYCLES
§ 74.15 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   A bicycle operated upon the streets shall be equipped as required by state
law. In addition, a bicycle shall be equipped with a brake capable of sliding
at least one tire when applied on dry, level, clean pavement. No bicycle shall
be equipped with a siren or whistle.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.16 BICYCLE OPERATING RULES.
   In addition to observing all other applicable provisions of this title and
state law, a rider of a bicycle upon a street shall:
   (A)   Not ride upon a sidewalk within a business district;
   (B)   Yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on sidewalks;
   (C)   On a two-way street, ride to the extreme right except when preparing
for a left turn. On a one-way street, ride to the extreme curbside of the
traffic lane and with the direction of travel designated for that lane. If the
curb lane is designated for “left turn” or “right turn” only, and the operator
is not intending to turn, he or she shall operate in the through lane;
   (D)   Not carry a package, bundle or article which prohibits him or her from
having full control of the bicycle and unhindered vision;
   (E)   Not ride abreast of another bicycle or in any manner other than single
file, except on designated bicycle paths;
   (F)   Not operate a bicycle in a careless or reckless manner which endangers
or would be likely to endanger himself, herself, another or any property.
Racing or trick riding shall be included in this offense; and
   (G)   Not leave a bicycle, except in a bicycle rack. If no rack is provided,
he or she shall leave the bicycle so as not to obstruct any roadway, sidewalk,
driveway or building entrance. Nor shall he or she leave the bicycle in
violation of the provisions relating to the parking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.17 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to leave a bicycle on public or private property
without the consent of the person in charge or the owner thereof.
   (B)   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of four hours
may be impounded by a law enforcement officer.
   (C)   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation of
this section may be immediately impounded by a law enforcement officer.
   (D)   If a bicycle impounded under this section is licensed, or other means
of determining its ownership exist, the law enforcement officer shall make
reasonable efforts to notify the owner.
   (E)   A bicycle impounded under this section which remains unclaimed shall
be disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of
abandoned or lost personal property.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
BICYCLE TRAIL AND FOOTPATH REGULATIONS
§ 74.30 OPERATING VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon or across a bicycle trail or
footpath, except to enter or exit a driveway, intersecting street or in case of
an emergency, state, county or city workers repairing, replacing or improving
the streets or mailmen delivering mail by carrier. No person shall drive a
motor vehicle, upon or across except after yielding right-of-way to all
bicycles and/or pedestrians in the trail or path.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.31 PARKING VEHICLES.
   No person shall stand or park a motor vehicle upon a bicycle trail or foot
path except in case of an emergency, except in areas intended for both parking
and bicycle/pedestrian traffic, or except as stated in §
74.30.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 74.45 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in §
74.46, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-ROAD AREAS. Any area that is not a road, or a road which is closed to
off-road vehicles and posted as such; except that areas commonly held open to
vehicular use, such as parking lots and race tracks, shall not be considered
off-road areas.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. Every self-propelled motor vehicle designed or capable of
traversing on or over natural terrain including, but not limited to,
snowmobiles, mini-bikes, motorcycles, four-wheel drive trucks, pickups, all
terrain vehicles, jeeps and half-tracks. The definition of OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
does not include, unless used for purposes prohibited by §
74.46, implements of husbandry; nor does it include military, fire, emergency,
law enforcement vehicles or maintenance, construction or farm equipment used
for legal purposes.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 74.46 OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate an off-road vehicle on any
non-road area which the operator does not own, unless:
      (1)   The operator possesses written permission from the owner, contract
purchaser or lessee of the non-road area;
      (2)   The operator possesses written evidence of membership in a club or
association to which the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the non-road
area has given written permission and a copy of which has been filed with the
City Administrator;
      (3)   The owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the non-road area has
designated the non-road area as open for recreational purposes in accordance
with O.R.S. 105.668 to 105.700 by filing such consent and other information
necessary to identify the area with the City Administrator; or
      (4)   The owner, contract purchaser or lessee has designated the non-road
area as being open to off-road vehicle use by posting notice thereof in a form
and manner prescribed by the City Administrator.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Falsify the written permission required by division (A)(1) above;
      (2)   Falsify the evidence of club or association membership or the
written permission required by division (A)(2) above;
      (3)   Falsify the filing or consent required by division (A)(3) above; or
      (4)   Post the notice or remove the posted notice required by division
(A)(4) above without the consent of the owner, contract purchaser or lessee.
   (C)   All off-road vehicles must be equipped with spark arrestor and muffler
system, which must be sufficient so as not to create unreasonable noise which
will likely interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of neighboring properties.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOBILE HOMES
§ 74.60 OCCUPANCY UNLAWFUL.
   No individual may sleep in a mobile home or recreational vehicle, including
campers with or without a vehicle, unless the vehicle is parked in a designated
recreational vehicle park, the home or vehicle has been sited pursuant to a
duly issued building permit or the individual has obtained a temporary
occupancy permit from the city.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.61 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator or his or her designee is authorized to issue a
temporary occupancy permit for up to two weeks, allowing an individual(s) to
occupy and sleep in a mobile home, recreational vehicle or camper temporarily
parked in the yard, driveway or upon the property of a residence, in which the
individual has access to sanitation and kitchen facilities.
   (B)   No more than two temporary occupancy permits within a 12-month period
may be issued by the City Administrator for the temporary occupancy on property
to the same real property owner.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 74.62 INTERPRETATION.
   In the event this subchapter conflicts with another section of a city
ordinance, the other section of the city ordinance shall control.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
TRAVEL TRAILERS
§ 74.75 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of human occupancy, a TRAVEL TRAILER includes all vehicles or
modular units originally having wheels for transporting, used for living or
sleeping purposes except those which qualify for or having obtained a mobile
home placement permit for permanent occupancy.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 74.76 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   The City Administrator is authorized to issue a temporary occupancy permit
for up to two weeks allowing a travel trailer, where there is adequate access
to sanitation and kitchen facilities, to be temporarily parked on residential
property not within a recreational vehicle park within the city. Any such
occupancy permit is revocable by the City Council without hearing. The
revocation shall give the occupant a minimum of 24 hours to vacate the travel
trailer or move the travel trailer. The occupancy permit shall be on a form
approved by the City Council. No more than two such permits per owner shall be
issued by the City Administrator in any one calendar year for property
belonging to the same real property owner. If an individual desires to obtain
additional occupancy permits, he or she must petition the City Council to
authorize the City Administrator to issue the additional permits. The City
Council shall only authorize additional permits following an open hearing at
which the Council finds that such additional permits would not create a health
or safety danger to the applicant or neighbors, that a temporary emergency
exists and that the additional permit will not create a public nuisance. The
Council shall continue to have the additional authority prescribed in this
title. Any permit issued pursuant to the terms of this section may be revoked
on 24 hours’ notice if, upon inspection by the City Administrator or his or her
designee or city/county health authorities, it is determined that such
inhabited travel trailer is lacking in proper sanitary facilities, is a menace
to public health or is causing or creating a public nuisance. The occupancy
permit allowed in this section shall be in addition to any time allowed in a
recreational vehicle park by separate ordinance.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
CHAPTER 75: IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
75.01   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
75.02   Failure to comply with traffic citation
   
75.03   Owner responsibility
   
75.04   Registered owner presumption
   
75.05   Impoundment of vehicles
   
75.06   Impounding of vehicles operated by drivers who are intoxicated,
unlicensed or uninsured
§ 75.01 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this title, the officer finding the vehicle shall take
its license number and any other information displayed on the vehicle which may
identify its owner, and may conspicuously affix to the vehicle a traffic
citation for the operator to answer to the charge against him or her or pay the
penalty imposed within five business days during the hours and at a place
specified in the citation.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 75.02 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATION.
   If the operator does not respond to a traffic citation affixed to such
vehicle within a period of five business days, the Court Clerk may send to the
owner of the vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed, a letter
informing him or her of the violation and warning him or her that in the event
the letter is disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant for his or her
arrest will be issued.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 75.03 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle placed in violation of a parking restriction shall be
responsible for the offense, except where the use of the vehicle was secured by
the operator without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 75.04 REGISTERED OWNER PRESUMPTION.
   In a prosecution of a vehicle owner charging a violation of a restriction on
parking, proof that the vehicle at the time of the violation was registered to
the defendant shall constitute a presumption that he or she was then the owner
in fact.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 75.05 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is placed in a manner or location that constitutes
an obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, a law enforcement
officer shall order the owner or operator of the vehicle to remove it. If the
vehicle is unattended, the officer may cause the vehicle to be towed and stored
at the owner’s expense. The owner shall be liable for the costs of towing and
storing, notwithstanding that the vehicle was parked by another or that the
vehicle was initially parked in a safe manner, but subsequently became an
obstruction or hazard.
   (B)   The disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under authority of this
section shall be in accordance with the provisions of O.R.S. 819.100 through
819.215, relating to impoundment and disposition of vehicles abandoned on the
city streets. An impounded vehicle shall not be released until all outstanding
fines and charges have been paid. An impounded vehicle shall only be released
to a licensed and insured driver if the vehicle is to be driven from the
impoundment site.
   (C)   The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude the issuance of a
citation for violation of a provision of this title.
   (D)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   (E)   Whenever a law enforcement officer observes a vehicle parked in
violation of a provision of this title, the officer, instead of or in addition
to issuing a citation, may cause the vehicle to be impounded. A vehicle so
impounded shall not be released until all outstanding fines and charges have
been paid. Vehicles impounded under authority of this division (E) shall be
disposed of in the same manner as provided in division (B) above.
   (F)   Whenever a motor vehicle, two-wheel trailer, utility trailer, mobile
trailer, camper trailer, camper or recreation vehicle is found to have been
parked upon a street or right-of-way within the city for more than 48 hours, it
shall be the responsibility of the City Administrator or his or her designee to
make diligent inquiry to determine the ownership of said vehicle or trailer and
to advise the owner, if found, of the requirements and remedies of this title.
      (1)   (a)   If ownership cannot be determined by routine inquiry in the
neighborhood where such vehicle or trailer is found, the law enforcement
officer shall examine said vehicle or trailer for its license number, motor
number, serial number, make and style and any other information which could aid
in the identification of the owner of said vehicle or trailer.
         (b)   This information shall be conveyed, for purposes of identifying,
to the Department of Motor Vehicles of the state for registration of said
vehicle or trailer, if any.
      (2)   If the owner of such vehicle or trailer is identified, the owner
thereof shall be notified by personal service or certified return-receipt mail
that said vehicle or trailer will be impounded by the Police Department 24
hours after the receipt by the owner of said notice unless the vehicle is
removed by the owner within that period. If written return-receipt is not
obtained, it shall be presumed that the owner has received notification when a
period of seven days expires from the date of mailing of said notice by
certified mail. In addition to said notification by personal service or
certified mail, notification shall be placed by the law enforcement officer on
said vehicle or trailer.
      (3)   If ownership of such vehicle or trailer cannot be determined after
the accomplishment of the steps set out in division (F)(1) above, the law
enforcement officer shall place upon said vehicle a notice visible to the
public stating that said vehicle or trailer shall be removed and impounded by
the city after the expiration of 24 hours from the time of posting of said
notice unless said vehicle or trailer is removed.
      (4)   Vehicles impounded under authority of this division (F) shall be
disposed of in the same manner as provided in division (B) above.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 75.06 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES OPERATED BY DRIVERS WHO ARE INTOXICATED,
UNLICENSED OR UNINSURED.
   (A)   A police officer may, without prior notice, impound said vehicle until
such time as a person with a right of possession to the vehicle lawfully claims
it and is able to have it lawfully removed from the city’s custody, if the
police officer reasonably believes that a person:
      (1)   Is driving an uninsured vehicle in violation of O.R.S. 806.010;
      (2)   Is driving while his or her driver’s license is suspended in
violation of O.R.S. 811.175 and 811.182;
      (3)   Is operating a motor vehicle without driving privileges in
violation of O.R.S. 807.010(1) or (2); or
      (4)   Is driving a motor vehicle without a license or driver’s permit in
his or her possession in violation of O.R.S. 807.570(1)(a)(1996); or
      (5)   Is operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicants in violation of O.R.S. 813.010.
   (B)   In the event a police officer impounds a vehicle pursuant to the
provision of division (A) above, notice consistent with the provision of O.R.S.
819.180(2) shall be sent within 48 hours (excluding weekends and holidays) to
any owner(s), lessor or security interest holder(s) as shown by the records of
the appropriate Department of Motor Vehicle.
   (C)   Any person seeking the release of a vehicle impounded pursuant to the
provision of division (A) above shall provide the city with proof of insurance
and licensure. In addition, except as provided in division (D) below, any
person lawfully entitled to the release of the vehicle shall pay, prior to
release of said vehicle, any and all accrued towing and storage charges as well
as an administrative fee to the city in the amount of $75 to cover the
administrative costs of this program.
   (D)   In the event a person wishes to contest the impoundment of a vehicle
seized pursuant to division (A) above, he or she must file a request for a
hearing within 48 hours of their receipt of notice of the impoundment.
      (1)   A hearing shall thereafter be scheduled within 72 hours (not
including weekends or holidays) of the receipt of the request by the city.
Notice of the hearing shall be sent to the city to all owner(s), lessors or
security interest holders as their names appear in the records of the
appropriate Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   At the time of the hearing, the city shall have the burden of
proving by a preponderance of evidence that the city had reasonable grounds to
believe that the vehicle was subject to impoundment for violation of O.R.S.
806.010, 811.175, 811.182, 807.010(1) and (2), 807.570(l)(a) and/or 813.010.
      (3)   In the event the Municipal Court determines that the city had
reasonable grounds to impound the vehicle, the Court will require that all
costs associated with the towing and storage of the vehicle (including the
administrative fee set out above) to be paid prior to the release of said
vehicle.
      (4)   In the event the Municipal Court finds that the seizure of the
vehicle was improper, the Court shall order the immediate release of the
vehicle to the owner or other person with a right of possession, with the costs
associated with the towing and impoundment of the vehicle being borne by the
city.
      (5)   In the event a vehicle seized pursuant to division (A) above is not
reclaimed by a party entitled to its possession within 30 days of its seizure,
the city may thereafter dispose of the vehicle consistent with the terms of
O.R.S. 819.210 to 819.215, as applicable.
(Ord. 357, passed 2-25-2002)
CHAPTER 76: TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN
Section
   
76.01   Adoption by reference
§ 76.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Cascade Locks Transportation System Plan is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 356, passed 11-26-2001)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   INOPERABLE AND DISCARDED VEHICLES
      
93.   CEMETERIES
      
94.   NOISE
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
97.   ARTIFACTS AND HISTORICAL MATERIALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Keeping of animals within the city limits
   
90.03   Prohibited actions
   
90.04   Exceptions
   
90.05   Licensing
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXHIBITION OF FIGHTING. A public or private display of combat between two or
more animals in which the fighting, killing, maiming or injuring of animals is
a significant feature. EXHIBITION OF FIGHTING does not include demonstrations
of the hunting or tracking skills of an animal or the lawful use of animals for
hunting, tracking or self-protection.
   EXOTIC, WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS. Includes any animal, of any size, age or
sex, which, because of its size, vicious nature, poisonous bite or sting or
other characteristics, would constitute a danger to human life or property if
not kept or maintained under the immediate control of the owner. EXOTIC, WILD
OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Any cat other than the Felis catus;
      (2)   Any non-human primate;
      (3)   Any wolf, coyote or other canine not of the species Canis
familiaris, or half or less than half of the species Canis familiaris;
      (4)   Any shark, dogfish, piranha or similar carnivorous fish;
      (5)   Any poisonous reptile and crocodilian or lizard whose average adult
length is greater than two feet, any snake whose average adult length is
greater than six feet, any snake whose average adult length is greater than six
feet or any snapping turtle;
      (6)   Any bat;
      (7)   Any skunk, weasel, badger, fox, mammals of the raccoon family or
wolverine;
      (8)   Any boar or wild pig;
      (9)   Any bear;
      (10)   Any kangaroo;
      (11)   Any eagle, hawk, osprey, buzzard or similar predatory bird; and
      (12)   Any poisonous or stinging insect or arachnid.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cattle,
sheep, goats, chickens, geese and other poultry, ostriches and emus, pigeons,
swine, rabbits, llamas, swine, bees and fur-bearing animals bred and maintained
commercially or otherwise, of any size, age or sex.
   NUISANCE. Any noise, smell or visual object that annoys or irritates
neighboring property occupants, and interferes with the peaceful enjoyment of
their property.
   OFFICER. Any person appointed by the City Administrator for the purpose of
enforcement within the city.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, keeps, harbors, possesses
or has in his, her or its control an animal or animals.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   PETS or PET ANIMALS. Are:
      (1)   Of the species Felis catus;
      (2)   Of the species Canis familiaris;
      (3)   A fish kept in a tank;
      (4)   A nonpoisonous reptile;
      (5)   A gerbil, hamster, guinea pig, mouse, rat, squirrel, chipmunk,
ferret or similar rodent-like creature kept in a cage; and
      (6)   An amphibian less than one foot in length such as a frog, toad,
salamander or chameleon.
   WILDLIFE. Any mammal, bird, reptile, insect or arachnid that is indigenous
to this area that was not bred and raised in captivity.
(Ord. 375, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 90.02 KEEPING OF ANIMALS WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Pets and pet animals may be kept within the city limits as personal or
family pets, with a limitation of a total of five dogs and cats in any
combination, and a limitation of five pet rabbits per household.
   (B)   Commercial breeding kennels are not allowed within the city limits.
   (C)   No livestock may be kept within the city limits.
   (D)   No exotic, wild or dangerous animals may be kept within the city
limits.
   (E)   Anyone keeping livestock or other animals prohibited within the city
limits at the time that this chapter is adopted may continue that use under the
following conditions.
      (1)   The number of animals at the time of adoption of this chapter shall
not be increased after the adoption of this chapter by the addition of any new
animals.
      (2)   If the number of animals increases due to birth after the adoption
of this chapter, the additional animals must be removed from the property
within two weeks of the normal weaning period for that animal species.
      (3)   Animals that expire may not be replaced.
      (4)   If the animals are removed from the property for a period of six
months, the exception to this chapter will no longer apply.
(Ord. 375, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any wildlife that is located within the city
limits.
   (B)   No person shall keep any exotic animal which is located within the
city limits.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to
wildlife and exotic animals in a humane environment under trained supervision
for which a permit has been issued for a wildlife caretaker, a carnival, circus
or special event.
   (D)   No person shall treat any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (E)   Except as the Oregon Wildlife Commission by rule may provide
otherwise, no person shall chase, harass, molest, worry or disturb any
wildlife.
   (F)   No person shall keep any animal in a manner that creates or causes
offensive odors or in any other way constitutes a danger to public health.
   (G)   No person shall take part in animal fighting. It shall be unlawful for
any person to:
      (1)   Own or train an animal with the intention that the animal engage in
an exhibition of fighting;
      (2)   Promote, conduct, participate in or be present as a spectator at an
exhibition of fighting or preparations thereto;
      (3)   Keep or use or in any way be connected with or interested in the
management of, or receive money for the admission of any person to any place
kept or used for the purpose of an exhibition of fighting; or
      (4)   Knowingly suffer or permit any place over which he or she has
possession or control to be occupied, kept or used for the purpose of an
exhibition of fighting.
(Ord. 375, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exceptions to the above policies:
   (A)   Animals of any kind that are professionally trained for support and
assistance to persons with disabilities are allowed within the city limits;
   (B)   A person who has been professionally trained and has obtained a permit
as a wildlife caretaker or for a carnival, circus or special event, may
maintain wildlife or exotic animals in a humane environment temporarily within
the city limits for a maximum of seven days per animal per year. Information
that provides documentation of training and issuance of such a permit, along
with the duration of the event, shall be delivered to the City Recorder before
the animals are brought into the city. Such facilities are subject to
inspection by the County Animal Control Officer at all times (24 hours, seven
days a week) without notice;
   (C)   Veterinary facilities for pet animals;
   (D)   Boarding or day care facilities for pet animals that do not create a
nuisance for neighboring property occupants, and that are subject to inspection
by the County Animal Control Officer at all times (24 hours, seven days a week)
without notice;
   (E)   Active 4-H or FFA livestock animal projects may be maintained for the
duration of the project within the city in a manner that is humane and
appropriate for that type of animal and that does not create a nuisance for
neighboring property occupants. The livestock facilities must be a minimum of
100 feet from any dwelling on neighboring properties. Information on the type
and number of animals, the location where the animals will be housed and the
duration of the project must be submitted to the City Recorder before the
animals are brought into the city; and
   (F)   Up to three hens may be kept on parcels less than an acre in size. Ten
hens may be kept per acre on parcels that are an acre or more in size. This
exception does not include roosters.
(Ord. 375, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 90.05 LICENSING.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Council that dog and animal control within
the city be handled by Hood River County in a uniform manner, the same as in
unincorporated areas of the county and that prior city ordinances pertaining to
animal and dog control be repealed in order to have a uniform county wide dog
control ordinance.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts, in its entirety, Hood River County Ordinance
No. 355, dated October 16, 2017, or as may hereafter be amended or replaced by
Hood River County, and providing for the licensing and regulating of conduct,
care, and treatment of certain animals; prohibiting activities; establishing
procedures; and providing penalties. Adoption of the county ordinance, which is
by this reference incorporated herein in its entirety, shall supersede any
prior city ordinances relating to the same subject matter. Any and all city
ordinances pertaining to the same subject matter are hereby repealed.
   (C)   Any dog licensed by Hood River County shall be deemed to be licensed
within the city and the city shall not require additional licensing fees.
   (D)   The city shall coordinate with Hood River County to assist with the
licensing and collection of fees for Hood River County and shall designate city
staff or other city agency to assist with the licensing, collection of fees, or
other requirements of the ordinance.
(Ord. 451, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.04 shall result in a fine not to exceed $500 for each violation. Each day,
starting at 12:01 a.m., shall constitute a new violation and shall result in a
separate fine.
(Ord. 375, passed 6-13-2005)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Administration
   
91.001   Title
   
91.002   Jurisdictional power
   
91.003   Scope
   
91.004   Continuation
   
91.005   Definitions
   
91.006   Provisions additional to state and federal law
   
91.007   Fire Department to administer
   
91.008   Supervision of fire prevention
   
91.009   Fire Marshal and assistants
   
91.010   Fire and arson investigation; Fire Marshal authorized to require
building alterations
   
91.011   Rules and regulations
   
91.012   Adoption of state statutes
   
91.013   Adoption of Oregon Fire Code
   
91.014   Maintenance of fire protection system buildings
   
91.015   Appeals
   
91.016   Charges for copies of Fire Department records
Enforcement
   
91.030   Fire hazard
   
91.031   Eliminating fire hazard
   
91.032   Illegal occupancy
   
91.033   Authority at fires or other emergencies
   
91.034   Building imminently dangerous
   
91.035   Obstructing exits
   
91.036   Temporary fire watch patrol
   
91.037   Access roadways for fire apparatus
   
91.038   Water supply
Permits and Fees
   
91.050   Permit
   
91.051   Building permits
   
91.052   Permits and fees required
   
91.053   Permit fees
Certificates of Fitness
   
91.065   Certificate of fitness
   
91.066   Certificate required
Explosives, Blasting Agents, Ammunition and Fireworks
   
91.080   Scope
   
91.081   Permits required; exemptions
   
91.082   Where storage of ammunition not permitted
   
91.083   Fireworks
   
91.084   Investigation of violations and receiving, storing or destroying
explosives, blasting agents, ammunition or fireworks
   
91.085   Blasting
Commercial Building Inspection Program
   
91.100   Purpose
   
91.101   Definitions
   
91.102   Inspection program established
   
91.103   Inspections, violations and certificate of inspection
   
91.104   Change of use or occupancy and revocation
   
91.105   Fees
   
91.106   Enforcement
   
91.107   Fee schedule
   
91.108   Collection of delinquent accounts
   
91.109   Waiver of fees
   
91.110   Adjustment of accounts
 
   
91.999   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION
§ 91.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Fire Regulations” and may be so cited
and pleaded and is referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.002 JURISDICTIONAL POWER.
   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the jurisdictional powers of the
city for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety
and welfare, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed for that
purpose.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.003 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to both public and
private property, and shall be binding upon public officers and employees and
all other persons except as may be otherwise specifically provided herein. This
chapter shall apply to all new structures and their occupancies including
buildings, structures, equipment and the like and, except as otherwise
specified, to existing structures, and their occupancies including buildings,
structures, equipment and the like which constitute a hazard to life or to
property.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.004 CONTINUATION.
   The provisions of this chapter, insofar as they are substantially the same
as existing ordinances and/or ordinances relating to the same subject matter,
shall be construed as restatements and continuations and not as new enactments.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   ENTITY. Includes a corporation, foreign corporation, nonprofit corporation,
profit and nonprofit unincorporated association, business trust, estate,
partnership, trust, two or more persons having a joint or common economic
interest, any state, the United States and any foreign government.
   FIRE CODE. The Fire Code adopted by the State of Oregon, including any state
amendments.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.006 PROVISIONS ADDITIONAL TO STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   This chapter shall be applicable in addition to the measures of fire
prevention as set forth in the laws and regulations of the state and the United
States.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.007 FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ADMINISTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the City
Administrator, the Fire Chief or his or her designee, unless otherwise
specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.008 SUPERVISION OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for all fire
prevention in the city and for the enforcing of the various provisions of this
chapter or any subsequent amendments to the same.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.009 FIRE MARSHAL AND ASSISTANTS.
   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, shall serve as the Fire Marshal of
the city.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.010 FIRE AND ARSON INVESTIGATION; FIRE MARSHAL AUTHORIZED TO REQUIRE
BUILDING ALTERATIONS.
   Whenever the Fire Marshal shall find that the means of egress from a
building or portion thereof, or that the means of preventing the origin or
spread of fire or of extinguishing fire in any building or portion thereof, are
insufficient or inadequate, he or she is hereby authorized and empowered to
direct and require that any such building or portion thereof be rearranged,
altered or repaired to be sufficient and adequate in such respects.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.011 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Marshal, with the approval of the Fire Chief, is authorized to make
and enforce such rules, regulations and policies for the prevention and control
of fires and fire hazards, as may be necessary to carry out the intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.012 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   (A)   In accordance with O.R.S. 476.030(3) from the statutes, rules and
regulations administered by the State Fire Marshal, the city hereby adopts and
incorporates into this chapter by reference the following provisions of the
Oregon Revised Statutes: O.R.S. 476.005, 476.010, 476.060, 476.070, 476.090,
476.150 through 476.290, 476.715 through 476.990(5), 479.015, 479.170, 479.190,
479.195, 479.210 through 479.300, 479.990(6), 480.110, 480.120, 480.124,
480.127, 480.140, 480.152, 480.154, 480.158, 480.160, 480.290, 480.310 through
480.340, 480.410 through 480.430, 480.450, 480.990(5), (7) and (8).
   (B)   Where reference is made to the State Fire Marshal in the Oregon
Revised Statutes mentioned in division (A) above, the term CITY FIRE MARSHAL
shall be substituted for it.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.013 ADOPTION OF OREGON FIRE CODE.
   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, and as a supplement thereto,
in order to regulate those conditions hazardous to life and property from fire
or explosion that are not specifically addressed by this chapter, the city
hereby adopts, with the exceptions noted below, the Oregon Fire Code, including
Appendices and state amendments, is hereinafter referred to as the “Fire Code.”
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.014 MAINTENANCE OF FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM BUILDINGS.
   The owners of buildings shall be responsible for assuring that the fire and
life-safety systems required by the Building Code and the Fire Code are
maintained in an operable condition at all times. Unless otherwise required by
the Fire Chief, annual tests of such systems shall be conducted by approved
persons. A written record shall be maintained and shall be forwarded to the
Fire Marshal and be available to the inspection authority.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.015 APPEALS.
   Any situation requiring an appeal of a decision made by the Fire Marshal or
Fire Chief, shall be made in writing to the City Administrator within 14 days.
Items that must be included are the specific sections in question, the Fire
Marshal’s decision and a suggested remedy for evaluation by the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.016 CHARGES FOR COPIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT RECORDS.
   (A)   Upon written application, under the Public Records Law, being O.R.S.
Ch. 192, accompanied by the fee as set by resolution, the Fire Marshal may
furnish photocopies of fire incident reports, non-confidential fire
investigation reports, fire prevention inspection reports and other Fire
Department related information.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as applying to any city,
county, state or federal agency or subdivision thereof, or any nationally
recognized nonprofit agency engaged in the suppression or prevention of fire,
which shall make a request for fire safety, cause or loss information.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.030 FIRE HAZARD.
   FIRE HAZARD means any thing or act which increases or may cause an increase
of the hazard or menace of fire to a greater degree than that customarily
recognized as normal by persons in the public service regularly engaged in
preventing, suppressing or extinguishing fire; or which may obstruct, delay,
hinder or interfere with the operations of the Fire Department of fire or the
egress of occupants in the event of fire.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.031 ELIMINATING FIRE HAZARD.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, occupying, using or having charge or
control of any premises, or any part of any premises, who creates or maintains
a condition or situation which constitutes a fire or explosion hazard, or who
fails to promptly comply with the written notice of the Fire Department, shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   In case of fire resulting directly or indirectly from such failure or
neglect to promptly comply with the notice of the Fire Department, the person,
firm or corporation so notified shall be liable in a civil action for the
payment of all expenses incurred by the city in extinguishing any fire
resulting from such failure or neglect.
   (C)   The amount of such expense shall be fixed by the Fire Chief. When
collected, such sum shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation occupying, using or having charge of
any premises, or any part of any premises, who creates or maintains any
condition or situation which constitutes a fire or explosion hazard and who
fails to correct such unsafe condition, or fails to abate or to commence
abatement of the violation of any provision of this chapter within 30 days
after receiving written notice from the Fire Department or other city
enforcement officer to do so, shall be charged and required to pay a re-
inspection fee of $100. If violations remain uncorrected at the time of the
first re-inspection, a $200 re-inspection fee will be applied. If violations
remain uncorrected at the time of the second re-inspection, a $400 re-
inspection fee for the third and subsequent re-inspections will be applied if
violations remain uncorrected at that time.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation so charged for re-inspection fees who
does not feel that the charges are appropriate may appeal such charges in
writing to the City Administrator.
   (F)   The amounts of all such charges assessed pursuant to this section
shall be paid to the City Recorder, for deposit into the General Fund of the
city.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.032 ILLEGAL OCCUPANCY.
   It is a violation of this chapter to use or occupy a building in a manner
other than the approved use as recorded in the files in a manner not authorized
by city code.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.033 AUTHORITY AT FIRES OR OTHER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal or any of his or her assistants, the Fire Chief, or
any member of the Fire Department in charge of firefighting at a fire, or the
police or any member of the Sheriff’s Department in charge of police officers
attending a fire, may immediately, summarily and without being required to give
any notice whatsoever, cause the use and/or occupancy of all or any portion of
a building or structure which is found to be in danger of fire resulting from
the spread of an existing fire to be discontinued and may close said building
or structure or part thereof during such period of danger, and prevent the use
and occupancy thereof. Such officer may use such force as he or she may find
reasonably necessary to protect human life. It is unlawful for any person to
refuse to leave such building, structure or portion thereof when ordered to
vacate the same under authority of this section.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or the police, or their authorized representatives,
shall be in charge of the scene of an emergency involving the saving of life
and/or property from fire or other disaster, emergency medical services,
hazardous materials incidents or other emergency aid and shall have the power
and authority to direct such operation as may be necessary in the reasonable
performance of their duty.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.034 BUILDING IMMINENTLY DANGEROUS.
   (A)   If the Fire Marshal finds that for any reason, a building, structure,
piece of equipment or process is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it
is being used or is a fire hazard, as defined in this chapter, the Fire Marshal
shall immediately, summarily and without being required to give any notice
whatsoever, cause the use and/or occupancy of all or any portion of such
building or structure in which such fire hazard exists to be discontinued and
may close said building or structure or part thereof by posting of notice or by
barricade or other means, and prevent the use or occupancy.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to refuse to leave such building,
structure or portion thereof when ordered by the Fire Marshal to vacate the
same.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal may require vacation of the adjoining buildings,
closing up of entrances, barricading of the sidewalk and streets or any other
precaution including disconnection of utility services, immediate dismantling
or removal of installations, materials or substances and the wrecking of all or
any portion of the building or structure that he or she may find necessary as
an emergency measure to safeguard human life.
   (D)   Summary action under this section and any appeal therefore shall be in
addition to any other procedures applicable under this chapter.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the mandatory directives to the Fire Marshal contained
in this division (E), the Fire Marshal may, in the exercise of his or her
authority, and in lieu of ordering the vacation of such building or structure,
impose alternative interim measures, including, but not limited to, the
imposition of a fire watch as established in §
91.036, when, in the opinion of the Fire Marshal, such interim measures will
reduce such hazard so that it is no longer imminently dangerous so that persons
may temporarily occupy such building or structure, until such hazard has been
abated.
   (F)   The owner, the owner’s agent or the occupant shall reimburse the city
for any expenditures by the Fire Marshal in precautionary measures under this
section or such expenditures shall be included as an additional item and be
spread as an assessment against the property.
   (G)   If a building or structure used for low income multi-family housing is
found to be imminently dangerous, as set forth in division (A) above, the Fire
Marshal shall not cause the use and/or occupancy of the building or structure
to be discontinued immediately, but shall report the matter to the Fire Chief
who shall report the matter to the City Administrator and Council for
consideration of rehabilitation and repair, provided that the Fire Marshal, in
the exercise of his or her discretion, finds that interim measures, including,
but not limited to, a fire watch, will reduce the hazard so that it is no
longer imminently dangerous until the Council has heard the matter.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.035 OBSTRUCTING EXITS.
   (A)   Closing up and obstructing. It is unlawful under any circumstances to
close up or obstruct stairs, exits or the approaches leading thereto in any
building. No exit door in any building shall be locked in any manner that will
prevent its being immediately operable by any occupant from the inside of the
building while such building or structure is in use.
   (B)   Fire Marshal actions. If the Fire Marshal determines that a required
exit, or exitway is not immediately available for use because of being locked,
blocked, chained, modified or otherwise limited in use and the present
occupancy of the building is such that the building is imminently dangerous, as
described in §
91.034 because of this condition, he or she shall immediately contact the
owner, manager or other person present and in charge of the building and order
the exit or exitway made usable. In the event that the Fire Marshal is unable
to locate a person in charge in the building, or in the event the person in
charge of the building fails to open the exit or exitway immediately to full
use, he or she shall cause the person to be cited as authorized by §
91.032 and determine if it is practical to cause the building to be vacated in
order to eliminate the imminently dangerous condition. If the Fire Marshal
determines that it is impractical considering the nature of the occupancy, the
time of day, the number of persons involved and the demeanor of the persons
involved, and that the exitway can be made usable, by summary abatement of the
exit or exitway limitation, he or she is authorized to cause the exitway or
exit to be made usable to the extent necessary to eliminate the imminently
dangerous condition. The owner, manager or other person in charge shall be
immediately notified of the action taken and ordered by the Fire Marshal to
secure the premises in full compliance with the city code.
   (C)   Illegal action. It is unlawful under any circumstances for any person
to stand, sit or otherwise occupy, so as to obstruct, any stairs, exits or the
approaches leading thereto in any building.
   (D)   Overcrowding. No person shall permit overcrowding or admittance of any
person beyond the approved capacity of any place of public assemblage. The Fire
Marshal, upon finding any overcrowding conditions or obstruction in aisles,
passageways or other means of egress; or upon finding any condition which
constitutes a serious menace to life, may cause the performance, presentation,
spectacle or entertainment to be stopped until such condition or obstruction is
corrected.
   (E)   Alternate remedy. As an alternative to the remedy specified in
division (D) above, the Fire Marshal may revoke the public assembly permit,
provided for in §
91.052(J)(3)(a) as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense in any two-year period, revoke the permit for
one day and/or performance, or until the condition is corrected;
      (2)   For the second offense in any two-year period, revoke the permit
for three days and/or performances, or until the condition is corrected;
      (3)   For the third offense in any two-year period, revoke the permit for
15 days and/or performances; and
      (4)   For the fourth and subsequent offenses in any two-year period,
revoke the permit for 30 days and/or performances.
   (F)   Appearance before Fire Chief. Any person, firm or corporation
aggrieved by the action of the Fire Marshal under division (E) above may appear
before the Fire Chief to show cause why the permit should not be revoked and
may appeal to the City Administrator following the guidelines in §
91.015. The permit shall remain valid, pending the decision of the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 TEMPORARY FIRE WATCH PATROL.
   (A)   In order to avoid relocating persons from, or the vacation of, any
structure, place of business or place of habitation that is imminently
dangerous, as described in §
91.034, the Fire Marshal or senior fire officer may, if he or she determines
that a reasonable level of fire and life safety can be obtained, order the
owner, agent or manager to provide either a licensed, bonded security agency or
an employee or volunteers, approved by the Fire Department, to perform as a
fire watch, making periodic patrols, as designated by the Fire Department, as a
condition of allowing continued occupancy of the structure, place of business
or place of habitation.
   (B)   If a licensed, bonded security agency or an employee fire watch patrol
or volunteers, approved by the Fire Department, are not available or able to
make such periodic patrols as ordered by the Fire Marshal or senior fire
officer, or if no owner, agent or manager is available, or if the owner, agent
or manager of such fire watch patrol does not comply with such orders of the
Fire Department, then the Fire Marshal or senior fire officer may order off-
duty Fire Department personnel back to duty to provide the fire watch patrol.
   (C)   As an additional alternative to implementing a fire watch patrol, the
Fire Marshal or senior fire officer may contract with a licensed, bonded
security company to provide such service, and the owner of the involved
property shall be responsible for all reasonable costs incurred by such
security company for such patrols.
   (D)   The owner of the structure, business or place of habitation shall be
responsible for paying all costs incurred by the Fire Department, and such
person shall pay this cost to the City Recorder who will reimburse the Fire
Department’s budget for this expense. If such costs are not paid within 30 days
of billing by the city, then an assessment for such costs shall be made by
ordinance and shall be entered in the docket of city liens, and, upon such
entry the same shall constitute a lien upon the property upon which the call
back fire watch patrol was provided, which lien shall be collected in all
respects, and shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per year from ten days
after the date of entry into the lien docket.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.037 ACCESS ROADWAYS FOR FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   Obstructing. The required width of access roadways shall not be
obstructed in any manner, including parking of vehicles. No parking signs or
other appropriate notice, or both, prohibiting obstructions may be required and
shall be maintained.
   (B)   Extent. All exterior doors, accessible by grade, of every facility,
building or portion of a building shall be within 150 feet of an approved means
of Fire Department access. Where Fire Department access cannot be provided,
approved fire protection system or systems shall be provided as required and
approved by the Fire Chief.
      (1)   When buildings are completely protected with an approved automatic
fire sprinkler system, the provisions of this section may be modified by the
Fire Chief.
      (2)   When access roads cannot be installed due to location on property,
topography, waterways, nonnegotiable grades or other similar conditions, the
Fire Chief is authorized to require additional fire protection.
   (C)   Fire protection alternate. Where the Fire Chief approves a fire
protection system, the Fire Chief may also modify the access requirements.
   (D)   Oversizing. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to require an
increase in the minimum access widths where such width is not adequate for fire
or rescue operations.
   (E)   Bridges. Where a bridge is required to be used as access under this
section, it shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the
applicable sections of the Building Code and using design live loading
sufficient to carry the imposed loads of the fire apparatus.
   (F)   Fire Chief authority. The Fire Chief of the Fire Department shall have
authority to remove on-street parking from any street less than 32 feet in
width when any of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The Fire Chief determines that site-specific conditions (such as
too-tightly- curved roadway alignment) render the travel lanes useless for
access of fire apparatus; and/or
      (2)   Actual emergency response experience clearly indicated that
emergency vehicles cannot provide service.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Water supply; generally. An approved water supply capable of supplying
required fire flow for fire protection shall be provided to all premises upon
which buildings or portions of buildings are hereafter constructed. When any
portion of the building protected is in excess of 250 feet from a water supply
on a public street, there shall be provided, when required by the Fire Chief,
on-site fire hydrants and mains capable of supplying the required fire flow.
Water supply may consist of reservoirs, pressure tanks, elevated tanks, water
mains or other fixed system capable of supplying the required fire flow. The
Fire Chief shall set the required fire flow. The location, number and type of
fire hydrants connected to a water supply capable of delivering the required
fire flow shall be provided on the public street or on the site of the premises
to be protected as required and approved by the Fire Chief. All hydrants shall
be accessible to the Fire Department apparatus by roadways meeting the
requirements of §
91.037. Hydrants installed and maintained by private property owners shall be
painted red.
   (B)   Timing of installation. When fire protection facilities are to be
installed by the developer, such facilities including all surface access roads
shall be installed and made serviceable prior to and during the time of
construction. When alternate methods of protection, as approved by the Fire
Chief, are provided, the above may be modified or waived.
   (C)   Approval and testing. All fire alarm systems, fire hydrant systems,
fire extinguishing systems (including automatic sprinklers), wet and dry
standpipes, basement inlet pipes and other fire protection systems and
appurtenances thereto shall meet the approval of the Fire Marshal as to
installation and location and shall be subject to such periodic tests as
required by the Fire Chief. Plans and specification shall be submitted to the
Fire Marshal for review and approval prior to construction.
   (D)   Automatic fire pumps. Where required by the Fire Chief, a minimum of
two fire pumps independently driven shall be provided and sized for the
sprinkler demand and a minimum 500 gpm Fire Department standpipe operation.
   (E)   Combined system. In combined sprinkler and standpipe systems where
sprinkler risers with two and one-half inch hose outlets are provided, the
risers and supply piping to the risers shall be sized to accommodate a supply
of 500 gpm at 90 psi at the topmost two outlets (250 gpm per outlet); or the
sprinkler demand, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 91.050 PERMIT.
   PERMIT means a written permission of the Fire Marshal issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.051 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Plans for construction, alterations, repairs or other work involving or
affecting the fire and life- safety features of any building regulated by the
Fire Marshal shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief prior to issuance of the
building permit.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.052 PERMITS AND FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or entity to use a building or premises
or to engage in any activities for which a permit is required in division (J)
below without first obtaining such permit from the Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made to the Fire Marshal in such
form and detail as prescribed by the Fire Department.
   (C)   The application for the permit shall state the name, address and
telephone number of the owner or party legally occupying the building or
premises on which the activity will be conducted. If the applicant is the owner
or occupant of the building or premises, the application shall state that fact.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by the written permission of the
owner or legal occupant, signed by a person with authority to do so,
authorizing the applicant to carry on the activity described in the
application, in the building or on the premises described.
   (E)   Plans and specifications:
      (1)   When required by the Fire Marshal, sufficient plans, specifications
and engineering data must be submitted for the purpose of verifying that the
proposed activity or design complies with applicable codes, standards and
regulations; and
      (2)   When the applicant fails to provide adequate specifications and
plan detail, the Fire Marshal may require all submittals to be prepared by an
architect or engineer registered in the state.
   (F)   A permit issued under this subchapter shall continue until revoked or
for such a period of time as designated therein at the time of issuance. It
shall not be transferable and any change in use, occupancy, operation or
ownership shall require a new permit.
   (G)   All permits issued under this subchapter shall be presumed to contain
the provision that the applicant or the applicant’s agents shall carry out the
proposed activity in compliance with all the requirements of this subchapter
and any other federal and state laws and city regulations that apply, whether
specified or not, and in complete accordance with the approved plans and
specifications. Any permit which purports to sanction a violation of this
subchapter or any applicable law or regulations shall be void and any approval
of plans and specifications in the issuance of such permit shall likewise be
void. In instances where laws or regulations are enforced by other agencies,
joint approval shall be obtained.
   (H)   Revocation of permits:
      (1)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be suspended or revoked
under the following conditions, when it is determined after an administrative
hearing by the Fire Marshal that:
         (a)   It is used by a person other than the person to whom the permit
was issued;
         (b)   It is used for a location other than that for which it was
issued;
         (c)   Approved plans or any of the conditions or limitations set forth
in the permit have been violated;
         (d)   The permittee fails, refuses or neglects to comply with any
order or notice duly served under the provisions of this subchapter;
         (e)   The permitted work was initiated without the owner’s or other
governmental agency’s consent; and
         (f)   Work has not begun within 180 days of permit issuance or work,
once commenced, has not progressed for a period of 90 days.
      (2)   Any permit may be suspended for up to three working days without a
hearing if the Fire Marshal finds that hazards other than those anticipated in
the permit approval exists or there has been any false statement,
misrepresentation or omission as to a material fact, or change in condition
from those stipulated in the application or plans upon which the permit was
based. The permittee shall be given notice of the precise violations.
   (I)   Inspections.
      (1)   General. All construction, work or activity for which a permit is
required shall be subject to inspection by the Fire Marshal. It shall be the
duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to be accessible and exposed for
inspection purposes. Neither the Fire Marshal nor the city shall be liable for
expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to
allow inspection.
      (2)   Inspection requests. It shall be the duty of the person doing the
work authorized by a permit to notify the Fire Marshal that such work is ready
for inspection. The Fire Marshal may require that every request for inspection
be filed at least one working day before such inspection is desired. Such
request may be in writing, e-mail or by telephone at the option of the Fire
Marshal. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant requesting any
inspections required by this subchapter to promptly comply with the written
notice of corrections required by the Fire Marshal as a condition of the
permit. A fee as set by resolution shall be charged for re-inspections when the
work is not ready for the requested inspection.
      (3)   Inspection record card. Work requiring a permit shall not be
commenced until the permit holder or his or her agent shall have posted an
inspection record card in a conspicuous place on the premises and in such
position as to allow the Fire Marshal conveniently to make the required entries
thereon regarding the inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained in
such position by the permit holder until final approval has been granted by the
Fire Marshal.
   (J)   Permits are required for the following equipment and work:
      (1)   Fire alarm system:
         (a)   To install, alter, repair or remove any fire alarm system or
equipment pertaining thereto; and
         (b)   Any fire alarm system that is installed must have a Fire Marshal
approved key box that is accessible to Fire Department personnel in the event
of a call for service.
      (2)   Fire hydrant, private. To install, alter, repair or remove any
private fire hydrant or related piping or devices;
      (3)   An annual permit is required for the following:
         (a)   Public assembly (as defined in the Oregon Fire Code). When
required by the Fire Marshal, the owner or operator of public assembly
occupancies having an occupant load of 50 or more where fixed seats are not
installed shall obtain a permit which specifies the maximum number of persons
allowed in the building or portion of the building. In addition to the valid
permit, an approved set of the assembly plans must be displayed on the
premises. Such plan shall indicate the seating arrangements, location and width
of exit ways and aisles serving assembly rooms or areas having an occupant load
of 50 or more where fixed seats are not installed. The plan shall be prepared
by an architect registered in the state when, as determined by the Fire
Marshal, the applicant fails to provide the necessary specifications and plan
detail; and
         (b)   Burning permits are required for all fires that are
intentionally ignited within the city limits, including, but not limited to,
burn barrels, piles and campfires outside of designated fire pits within
designated campsites.
            1.   Fees for burning permits and rules for burning with a burning
permit are to be established by resolution.
            2.   If a fire ignited either with or without a burning permit
escapes the control of the person responsible for that fire, that person, or
his or her parent or legal guardian if he or she is under the age of 18, shall
be entirely liable for all costs of extinguishing that fire, for all damage
done by that fire and for all penalties and fees incurred.
      (4)   A temporary permit is required for the following activities:
         (a)   1.   Festivals, celebrations or special events of a temporary
nature meeting one or more of the following criteria and held in a portion or
portions of a building, structure or enclosed area not approved with the
certificate of occupancy for the proposed use.
            2.   Criteria requiring a temporary permit:
               a.   Occupant load of 500 or more people as calculated by the
Fire Marshal;
               b.   Gatherings of 50 or more people for the purpose of
entertainment in structures not approved for assembly use; or
               c.   Use of outside tents or membrane structures with sides,
where 50 or more people may attend.
            3.   Applications for the permit and sufficient plans shall be
submitted for approval not less than two weeks prior to the event or the
commencement of advance ticket sales, whichever occurs first. The application
shall include, when required by the Fire Marshal, submittal of plans as
specified in this division (J). An approved set of plans and the permit shall
be kept at the event site.
         (b)   Display of two or more motorized vehicles in an indoor or
enclosed public assembly; and
         (c)   Vending carts with portable cooking equipment.
      (5)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including the
owner of the building, structure or arena to which the permit applies, to fail
to comply with the terms of a temporary permit issued pursuant to division (J)
(4) above for a special event.
         (a)   In addition to any other liability or penalty provided by law,
the Fire Marshal or his or her assistants may impose a civil penalty against
any person, firm or corporation who violates division (J)(4) above, per day for
each day the violation continues.
         (b)   Upon having probable cause to believe that a violation of
division (J)(4) above has occurred, the Fire Marshal or his or her assistants
may issue a citation delivered in person or by registered or certified mail,
which shall include:
            1.   A reference to the particular chapter section involved;
            2.   A short and plain statement explaining how the chapter section
is violated;
            3.   A statement of the amount of the applicable penalty or
penalties stated in the chapter; and
            4.   A statement of the right of the person to request a hearing.
         (c)   The person, firm or corporation cited as violating the permit
requirements shall, within 15 calendar days of receiving written notice of
violations, pay to the city the penalty.
         (d)   The city may bring an action to collect any penalty assessed by
a Fire Department member in any court of the state for the county in which the
person from whom the penalty is being sought resides or in which such person’s
principal place of business is located.
         (e)   If a violation of this chapter results in or contributes to any
emergency, including a fire, the violator may be assessed the full cost of the
emergency response as well as cleanup costs.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.053 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   General. Fees for permits required under §
91.052(J) shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this section
or shall be as set forth by resolution.
   (B)   Permit fees. The fee for each permit required under §
91.052(J) shall be as set forth as designated in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and
(B)(3) below. The determination of the value or valuation under any of the
provisions of this code shall be made by the Fire Marshal.
      (1)   Fees for private fire hydrants are to be set by resolution. The
cost of permit fees associated with water main connections to the city water
supply may be deducted from the contract price.
      (2)   The fee for each fire alarm permit required under §
91.052(J)(1) shall be as set forth by resolution. The value to be used in
computing the permit and plan review fees shall be the total of all
construction work for which the permit is issued, as well as all permanent fire
alarm material and equipment.
      (3)   The fee for required permits in §
91.052(J)(3) and (J)(4) shall be set forth by resolution.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS
§ 91.065 CERTIFICATE OF FITNESS.
   (A)   A certificate of fitness is issued by the Fire Marshal certifying that
the person to whom the certificate is issued has passed an examination as to
his or her qualifications to perform the specifically identified work and that
he or she has authority to perform such work during the term specified.
   (B)   Each certificate issued shall remain valid and in effect for two years
from the date of issue unless suspended or revoked for due cause by the Fire
Marshal. The certificate shall not be transferable.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the first annual fee as set by resolution the Fire
Marshal shall issue the certificate of fitness to the applicant. The Fire
Marshal shall issue subsequent annual certificates of fitness on payment of an
annual fee as set by resolution unless his or her certificate of qualifications
expires during the two-year period.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install, alter,
service, test or perform any other work on any equipment regulated by this
chapter without first obtaining a certificate of fitness for such work from the
Fire Marshal.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any firm or corporation, to assign an employee or
other person to perform any of the services regulated by this chapter unless
such employee or person is certified, or working under an on-site supervisor
who is certified.
   (F)   Whenever the Fire Marshal determines after investigation that any
person holding a certificate of fitness, as above provided, has performed work
so as to create a hazard to life or property, he or she is authorized and
empowered to suspend or revoke the certificate of fitness of such person.
Notice shall be given of the suspension or revocation and the reasons for the
suspension or revocation shall be identified in the notice.
   (G)   Any person so affected may appeal such suspension or revocation to the
City Administrator.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.066 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   A certificate of fitness shall first be obtained from the Fire Marshal
before doing any of the following:
   (A)   Automatic sprinkler system installation, alteration, testing, service
or repair;
   (B)   Fixed fire extinguishing systems installation, alteration, testing,
service or repair;
   (C)   Privately owned fire mains or hydrant systems installation, testing or
repair; or
   (D)   Cleaning of commercial cooking hood and duct systems.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
EXPLOSIVES, BLASTING AGENTS, AMMUNITION AND FIREWORKS
§ 91.080 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the manufacture, possession, storage,
sale, transportation and use of explosives, blasting agents, ammunition and
fireworks.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal may adopt policies and procedures consistent with
these regulations for the purpose of protecting the public, providing safety to
life and property and to assure consistent practices in enforcement and
administration of these requirements.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.081 PERMITS REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to the permit
requirements of §
91.052.
   (B)   Permits are required for the following activities:
      (1)   Public fireworks display;
      (2)   Retail sales of fireworks;
      (3)   Blasting; and
      (4)   Explosive transportation and temporary storage.
   (C)   Small arms ammunition in quantities of less than 10,000 rounds are
exempt from permit requirements of §
91.052.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.082 WHERE STORAGE OF AMMUNITION NOT PERMITTED.
   No permit for the storage and sale of ammunition in excess of 10,000 small
arms cartridges shall be issued for any premises as follows:
   (A)   Buildings which are occupied in any part as hotels, apartments,
dwellings, schools, places of public amusement or assembly, excepting armories
of the state and United States military; and
   (B)   Buildings or places where the storage of ammunition together with
materials being manufactured, stored or kept for sale would, in the opinion of
the Fire Marshal, result in an unsafe condition.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.083 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to sell, keep or offer for sale, expose for sale,
possess, use, explode or have exploded any fireworks within the city, except as
specified by O.R.S. 480.120.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of the state law contained in O.R.S. 480.110
to 480.165, inclusive, the Fire Marshal may approve the public display of
fireworks by properly qualified individuals under supervision of experts in
handling of fireworks; and provided that such display shall be of such
character, and so located and conducted, that in the opinion of the Fire
Marshal such display shall not be hazardous to the surrounding property or
endanger any person.
   (C)   Any public fireworks display shall require a permit as specified in
O.R.S. 480.
   (D)   All public fireworks displays shall be under the supervision and
control of the Fire Chief, acting by and through the Fire Marshal of the city.
   (E)   The Fire Marshal shall confiscate, remove or have removed at the
owner’s expense, all stocks of fireworks or other combustibles exposed for sale
or held in stock in violation of this subchapter, and may destroy same, when he
or she finds such measures necessary for the preservation of the public safety.
   (F)   A permit from the State Fire Marshal and the city is required for all
retail sales of fireworks allowed under O.R.S. 480.127. The permit is valid for
the location and with the limitations specified on the permit.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.084 INVESTIGATION OF VIOLATIONS AND RECEIVING, STORING OR DESTROYING
EXPLOSIVES, BLASTING AGENTS, AMMUNITION OR FIREWORKS.
   The City Fire Marshal is authorized to investigate violations of any
provision of this chapter related to the unlawful possession or transportation
of explosives, blasting agents, ammunition or fireworks. The City Fire Marshal
is authorized to receive explosives, blasting agents, ammunition or fireworks
obtained by law enforcement officers or others. After consulting with the
District Attorney’s office, these items may be stored or destroyed, as the Fire
Marshal determines necessary to protect the public safety of the city, its
employees and its citizens.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.085 BLASTING.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to be in
possession of high explosive materials, as defined by the adopted Fire Code, or
conduct an operation or activity requiring the use of explosive materials, or
perform, order or supervise the loading and firing of high explosive materials
for the purpose of blasting, without first obtaining a permit from the Fire
Marshal.
   (B)   High explosive materials shall not be transported, sold, given,
delivered or transferred to anyone in the city not in possession of a valid
blasting permit.
   (C)   A blasting permit is required for every individual project requiring
blasting.
   (D)   A permit issued under this section is non-transferable to any other
person or entity.
   (E)   To obtain a permit for blasting the person performing the blasting
shall complete and file an application in the form prescribed by the Fire
Marshal with a certificate of insurance and the required review fees.
   (F)   The application shall include the location where the blasting will
take place; the type, condition and maximum amount of explosive materials to be
used in any blasting charge; the numbers and location of the charges; the
protective covering to be used; the type of detonating apparatus which will be
used; measures that will be used to protect nearby property, buildings and
structures; the dates and approximate time of explosions, damage monitoring
plan, traffic control plan and other information necessary to make the use of
explosives as safe as possible, such as public warning procedures, the recovery
of a failed detonation and the manner of transporting and storing explosives.
   (G)   The Fire Marshal, before issuing a permit for blasting, shall require
the person or entity to whom the permit is issued to execute and deliver a
certificate of general liability insurance coverage in a form to be approved by
the city in an amount not less than $2,000,000 or such additional amount as may
be reasonable under all of the circumstances then existing as determined by the
Fire Marshal. The certificate of insurance shall state on its face that the
underlying liability insurance policy includes coverage for indemnification of
the city, its officers, agents, any blasting consultant in the employ of the
city, and employees, against any claims brought by owners of any property for
loss or damage that resulted from such blasting and coverage to indemnity, hold
harmless and defend the city, its officers, agents and employees in and from
any cost, attorney’s fees or judgments incurred or rendered in any and all
suits or actions brought against it as a result in whole or in part from the
blasting.
   (H)   Permits for blasting projects in a public right-of-way or adjacent to
a public right-of-way when the blast may affect operation of the right-of-way
shall not be issued unless approved by the City Engineer, the Public Works
Superintendent, the City Light Superintendent and the Fire Marshal.
   (I)   The certificate shall also state that the insurance company must give
the city a minimum of ten days’ notice of cancellation of the required
liability insurance coverage. Notice shall include notice to the Fire Marshal.
   (J)   The Fire Marshal may approve, approve with conditions or deny a
blasting or transportation and storage permit application based on findings
related to the on-site or off-site impacts of the application as the impacts
relate to safety of life and property on the site or off the site. The
conditions of approval may relate to any aspect of the application in order to
provide for as safe an operation as possible.
   (K)   In the interest of preserving public safety, the Fire Marshal may
include in the permit conditions on the proposed blasting. It is unlawful for
any person to engage, or attempt to engage, in a blasting operations in
violation of any condition contained in the permit. The conditions shall
include, if applicable:
      (1)   The type, condition and maximum amount of the explosive to be used
in any blasting charge;
      (2)   Protective covering to be placed on or around exposed sides of the
object or material to be blasted;
      (3)   The detonating apparatus to be used and precautions to be taken in
connecting the same;
      (4)   Protection of nearby buildings and structures;
      (5)   Warnings to be given and precautions to be taken before a charge is
detonated;
      (6)   The recovery of unexploded blasting material and the disposition of
charges that fail to detonate;
      (7)   Days and hours for conducting blasting operations;
      (8)   The manner of storing explosives and detonating apparatus not in
immediate use; and
      (9)   The duration of the permit.
   (L)   The Fire Marshal shall render a decision on a permit application
within 30 days of the date the complete application was filed. A complete
application includes the application form, fee and certificate of insurance. An
applicant may appeal a denial or conditions of approval to the City
Administrator.
   (M)   The Fire Marshal shall have the power and authority to limit the level
of blasting and if it is deemed to be in the public interest, after examining
all of the pertinent circumstances surrounding the proposed blasting, may then
refuse to issue such permit or in the case of a previously issued permit may
suspend or revoke the permit.
   (N)   By the passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter or the
issuance of any permit under this chapter, the city assumes no responsibility
for any damage caused by the person or entity blasting within the city.
   (O)   Transportation of explosives (Transportation Plan).
      (1)   A separate permit for transportation of explosives and blasting
agents to the blast site and temporary storage at the site shall be obtained
from the Fire Marshal. The application must be filed in the form prescribed by
the Fire Marshal. A complete application includes the application form,
transportation plan and permit fee.
      (2)   The transportation plan shall include:
         (a)   Route used for deliveries and returns;
         (b)   Hours of transportation;
         (c)   Maximum quantities of explosives being transported; and
         (d)   Types of vehicles being used. Vehicles must be in compliance
with federal and state transportation regulations for motor transport of
explosive materials.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 430, passed 10-28-2013) Penalty, see §
91.999
COMMERCIAL BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM
§ 91.100 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A major responsibility of the Fire Department operations is fire
prevention. One method employed to reduce the number of fires is to enforce the
fire regulations. This can best be achieved through a building inspection
program. Therefore, the purpose of this subchapter is to establish an enhanced
fire prevention inspection program for all properties subject to fire
regulations. These do not include one- and two-family structures. The goal of
the program is to reduce the number of deaths, injuries and property loss from
fire, and, hence, to enhance the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The Fire Department has limited resources and staff. Therefore, the
purpose of this subchapter is to establish fees for certain inspections which
will be used to supplement General Fund resources to provide an enhanced level
of inspection service and to authorize the Fire Marshal to implement a program
of fire safety reviews in low risk uses, to be conducted by persons approved by
the Fire Chief. Under certain circumstances, the fire safety reviews will be
accepted in lieu of fire inspections.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS OWNER. The person or entity legally responsible for the delivery of
services or housing or the buying, selling, handling, manufacture or storage of
commodities.
   CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION. A document issued by the Fire Marshal for the
purpose of certifying that all violations of the fire regulations identified by
the inspection have been corrected.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any structure, tank or yard that is subject to
regulation under applicable fire codes, but does not include one- and two-
family residential structures. It includes occupancies on public and private
property as well as on all other types of ownership.
   FIRE REGULATIONS. The statutes and administrative rules adopted by the state
and the city code adopted by the Council and the policies adopted under the
authority granted under this subchapter to the Fire Marshal which are for the
purpose of safeguarding life and property from the hazards of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the
use or occupancy of buildings or premises.
   OCCUPANCY. The activity in a building or on property outside a building
where services or housing are provided or commodities are bought, sold,
handled, manufactured or stored. A single business entity with multiple uses or
activities in a building as defined by the International Building Code is
considered one OCCUPANCY. For activities outside a building such as tank farms,
moorage and outside storage, all outside activities or storage are considered
one OCCUPANCY. The definition includes individual businesses within a multiple
occupancy commercial building but it does not include individual dwelling units
within a multiple residential building.
   PERIODIC INSPECTION. An inspection performed on a periodic frequency by a
member of the Fire Department, or others as referenced in §
91.052(I). Such inspection is for the purpose of determining that the entire
occupancy is in compliance with the requirements of fire regulations. A
periodic inspection is also known as a regular inspection by the Fire
Department. It does not include specific requests for inspection.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.102 INSPECTION PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall establish a program for the inspection of
all occupancies of commercial buildings for compliance with the fire
regulations.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall adopt a policy regarding the frequency,
priority and type of inspection of occupancies in commercial buildings subject
to the availability of budgeted funds and staff.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal shall establish procedures for periodic inspection.
Prior to a periodic inspection, each occupancy shall be mailed a letter by
first class mail, giving notice of the inspection and listing the most commonly
found code violations. The occupant will be asked to correct these violations
if any are found by the occupant prior to the inspection. Failure to correct
these types of violations shall result in an additional fee for each class of
violation, as set by resolution.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal shall adopt a policy regarding minimum qualifications
of individuals performing inspection. Individuals may be members of the Fire
Department, members of other public agencies operating under an interagency
agreement or employees or individuals working under contract with the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.103 INSPECTIONS, VIOLATIONS AND CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each occupancy in a commercial building shall have a valid certificate
of inspection in accordance with a schedule established by the Fire Marshal. A
separate certificate of inspection is required for spaces that are used in
common by more than one occupant.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall issue a certificate of inspection upon a
finding that the occupancy satisfies the fire regulations in the case of a
periodic or requested inspection.
   (C)   In the event the inspection reveals a violation of the fire
regulations or fire safety review criteria, the Fire Marshal shall prescribe
the date by which all violations shall be abated.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal may order an inspection or re-inspection at any time
there is reason to believe there is a violation, and if a violation is found,
the certificate of inspection may be revoked.
   (E)   The certificate of inspection shall be valid until a subsequent
inspection or review or until it is revoked.
   (F)   The certificate of inspection shall be kept on the premises at all
times and be available for review by Fire Department personnel or other
authorized city personnel.
   (G)   The certificate of inspection shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The address of the occupancy;
      (2)   The name and address of the business owner;
      (3)   A description of the existing use(s) by International Building Code
classification and a description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued; and
      (4)   A statement that the described occupancy complies with the
applicable regulations and policies.
   (H)   The issuance of a certificate of inspection does not suspend the
applicability of any fire regulations.
   (I)   The certificate of inspection is issued to the business owner for the
existing use at the location specified in the certificate. It is not
transferable.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.104 CHANGE OF USE OR OCCUPANCY AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any change of use from the International Code classification recorded
on the certificate of inspection or addition of uses outside the approved
International Building Code classification in an existing occupancy shall
invalidate the certificate of inspection. A new inspection shall be required.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall be authorized to issue a notice of revocation
of a certificate of inspection upon a finding that:
      (1)   The certificate is being used at a location other than that for
which it was issued;
      (2)   The certificate is being used for uses which are new or in addition
to the existing approved use and which are in a different International
Building Code classification than the uses approved under the current
certificate of inspection;
      (3)   A subsequent inspection finds violations of the fire regulations;
or
      (4)   There has been a false statement or misrepresentation of a material
fact on which the certificate was issued.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal shall give notice to the business owner that the
certificate shall be revoked and the basis for the revocation and shall advise
the business owner that the revocation shall be effective 30 days from the date
of the mailing of the notice unless the business owner appeals the decision of
the Fire Marshal to the City Administrator.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.105 FEES.
   (A)   There shall be an inspection fee applicable to all periodic
inspections and inspections requested by the owner. Inspections of primary and
secondary schools and nonprofit hospital buildings, shall be exempt from all
fees except illegal occupancy, violation and re-inspection fees as set by
resolution. The fees shall be paid to the City Recorder within 28 days of the
invoice date and shall be considered delinquent after that date. The billing
shall state where the fee is to be mailed.
   (B)   A fee may be paid in installments upon a showing that payment in a
lump sum would cause an undue hardship. An application to request installment
payments shall be filed with the city on forms provided by the Fire Department,
upon request. The application shall state the reasons for the undue hardship.
The application may be approved or denied based on the findings of the Fire
Marshal. Installment payments shall be paid within 28 days of the invoice date.
   (C)   The building owner will be billed in situations where the business
owner shows the Fire Marshal a lease agreement or some other legal arrangement
with the building owner which places the responsibility for fire inspection and
the payment of fees on the building owner.
   (D)   Failure to pay the fee within 28 days of the invoice date or failure
to pay an installment payment within 28 days of the invoice date shall subject
the responsible person or business entity to an action by the city in a court
having jurisdiction over the matter. The unpaid balance shall be subject to a
9% per year interest rate.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.106 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations which are not remedied within the time provided by the Fire
Marshal shall be treated in the manner provided by the city fire regulations
for violations of the fire regulations.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.107 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule shall be set by resolution.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.108 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Invoices returned by the United States Postal Service as “refused” may
be turned over to a professional collection agency for collection.
   (B)   Accounts with amounts 84 days or more past due will be handled
according to the collection policy established by city; these may include use
of a professional collection agency.
   (C)   Fees imposed by such agency shall be added onto the current fee
liability of the account.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.109 WAIVER OF FEES.
   The City Administrator is authorized to waive any fees authorized by this
subchapter based on guidelines established by the Council. The authority to
waive fees based on the established guidelines may be delegated to the Fire
Marshal.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.110 ADJUSTMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
   At the discretion of the supervisor in charge of billing accounts under this
program, account balances may be zeroed out if that balance represents only
residual unpaid interest and/or penalties.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of §
91.052, or of the burning rules as established by resolution, is a Class A
infraction and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 for the first
incident, $100 for the second incident and $300 for the third and all
subsequent incidents. An INCIDENT is defined as each time a fire is started,
whether it is a new fire or the re-ignition of a previous fire, and each 24-
hour period between 12:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. will be considered a separate
incident if a fire is continuous.
   (C)   (1)   A penalty shall be assessed if a person fails to pay the fee
when due.
      (2)   The penalty under division (C)(1) above shall be calculated as:
         (a)   Five percent (0.05) of the total fee liability of the account
but not less than $5 if failure is for a period more than 84 days from the
invoice date; and
         (b)   An additional penalty of 20% (0.20) of the total fee liability
but not less than $50 if the failure is for a period of six months from the
invoice date.
(Ord. 382, passed 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 92: INOPERABLE AND DISCARDED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Declaration of public nuisance
   
92.03   Inoperable vehicles
   
92.04   Investigation
   
92.05   Contents of notice
   
92.06   Entry on private property
   
92.07   Hearing by Council
   
92.08   Abatement by the city and appraisal
   
92.09   Low-value vehicle
   
92.10   Public sale notice
   
92.11   Public sale
   
92.12   Redemption before sale
   
92.13   Assessment of costs
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS. The expense of removing, storing or selling a discarded vehicle.
   DISCARDED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that does not have an unexpired license plate lawfully
affixed to it and is in one or more o the following conditions:
         (a)   Inoperative;
         (b)   Wrecked;
         (c)   Dismantled;
         (d)   Partially dismantled;
         (e)   Abandoned; and/or
         (f)   Junked.
      (2)   DISCARDED VEHICLES include major parts of vehicles, including but
not limited to, bodies, engines, transmissions and rear ends.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle that is incapable of operation because of
expired license and registration, mechanically incapable of moving under its
own power or incapable of being legally operated on public roadways because of
its wrecked or derelict condition or the fact that parts are damaged or missing
which are necessary for the legal operation of the vehicle.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of
the city.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, owner or person having possession, control or title to property
where a vehicle is located.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE OWNER. An individual, firm, corporation or unincorporated
association with an individual or joint claim or a legal or equitable interest
in a vehicle.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992; Ord. 345, passed 9-25-2000)
§ 92.02 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Accumulation and storage of discarded vehicles reduces property values, is
unsightly, promotes neighborhood deterioration, invites plundering, creates
fire hazards, is an attractive nuisance causing a hazard to minors’ health and
safety, creates a harborage for rodents and insects and is injurious to the
health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, a discarded vehicle on private
property is a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.03 INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Prohibited action. Storage of a discarded or inoperable vehicle on
private property in the city is prohibited unless the vehicle is completely
enclosed by a building or stored by a lawfully conducted business dealing in
junked vehicles.
   (B)   Vehicles stored for restoration. An inoperable vehicle of a
collectable nature, intended for restoration or to be used for restoration
purposes, may be stored on private property if it is closed up as much as
possible, i.e., hood, trunk, doors and windows are closed, and it is stored
behind site obscuring screening, such as vegetation or other earth-tone privacy
fence constructed of wood, concrete, masonry or other material which blends in
with surroundings. SIGHT OBSCURING means that the vehicle would not be visible
from the public right-of-way or the adjoining property.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992; Ord. 345, passed 9-25-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   When a law enforcement officer investigates a discarded vehicle on
private property and determines that a nuisance exists, the officer shall:
      (1)   Attempt to discover the owner of the vehicle and the person in
charge of the property on which the vehicle is located; and
      (2)   Give written notice to him or her by personal service or by
registered or certified mail that the vehicle is in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle is not found, the officer shall place a
notice on the windshield or some other part of the vehicle where it can be
easily seen.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.05 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   A notice issued under §
92.04 shall state:
   (A)   The discarded vehicle is in violation of this chapter and that within
ten days after sending or posting the notice:
      (1)   The vehicle must be removed from the city or to the storage yard of
a lawfully conducted business dealing in junked vehicles; or
      (2)   The vehicle must be completely enclosed within a building.
   (B)   The alternative to compliance with division (A) above is to petition
the City Recorder within the ten-day period described in division (A) above and
make a written request to appear before the Council to show why the vehicle
should not be immediately removed or property stored; and
   (C)   That failure to comply with the chapter authorizes the city to remove
the vehicle, charge the costs against the property from which it was removed
and to sell the vehicle to satisfy the costs of removal and storage.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.06 ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer shall obtain the consent of an occupant or
a warrant of the Municipal Court authorizing entry for inspection before
entering onto private property.
   (B)   No search warrant shall be issued under this chapter until an
affidavit has been filed with the Municipal Court showing probable cause for
the inspection by stating the purpose and extent of the proposed inspection,
citing this chapter as the basis for the inspection, stating whether it is an
inspection instituted by complaint, or giving other specific or general
information concerning the vehicle in question or the property on which it is
located.
   (C)   No person shall interfere with or attempt to prevent a law enforcement
officer from entering private premises and inspecting a vehicle when an
emergency exists or when the officer exhibits a warrant authorizing entry.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.07 HEARING BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Following a request, the Council shall fix a time for a hearing to
show cause why a vehicle should not be abated immediately and to receive
evidence and the testimony of the law enforcement officer and other interested
persons concerning the existence, location and condition of the vehicle. After
the hearing, the Council may order the vehicle removed by the city in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Council shall make its order in the form of a resolution declaring
the vehicle to be a public nuisance. The resolution may order the removal of
more than one vehicle and may consolidate the hearings and orders relating to
more than one vehicle. People receiving the notice specified in §
92.04 shall be sent copies of the resolution of the Council.
   (C)   The Council may impose conditions and take other action it considers
appropriate under the circumstances to carry out this chapter. It may delay the
time for removal of the vehicle when, in its opinion, circumstances justify
such action. It shall refuse to order removal of the vehicle when the vehicle,
in the opinion of the Council, is not subject to the provisions of this
chapter. The Council shall not be bound by technical rules of evidence in
conducting the hearing.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.08 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY AND APPRAISAL.
   (A)   Ten days after giving the notice required in §
92.04 or, if a hearing is held, ten days after adoption of a resolution
declaring a vehicle to be a public nuisance as required in §
92.07, the city will have jurisdiction to abate the nuisance and may remove the
vehicle by use of city employees or authorized independent contractors. No
person shall interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow authorized persons to
enter private property to remove a vehicle under this chapter.
   (B)   After removing the vehicle, the city shall have it appraised.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.09 LOW-VALUE VEHICLE.
   (A)   If the vehicle is appraised at $750 or less, the law enforcement
officer shall file an affidavit with the Motor Vehicles Division describing the
vehicle, including the license plates, if any, stating the location and
appraised value of the vehicle and stating that the vehicle will be junked or
dismantled. The law enforcement officer may dispose of the vehicle and execute
a certificate of sale without notice and public auction.
   (B)   The certificate of sale shall be on a form provided by the City
Recorder.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.10 PUBLIC SALE NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   If the vehicle is appraised over $750, the law enforcement
officer shall publish a notice of sale in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city.
      (2)   The notice of sale shall state:
         (a)   The sale is of discarded property in possession of the city; and
         (b)   A description of the vehicle, including the type, make, license
number, identification number and any other information that will aid in
accurately identifying the vehicle.
   (B)   The notice of sale shall be published twice. The first publication
shall be made not less than 15 days before the date of proposed sale, and the
second shall be made not less than seven days before the date of proposed sale.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.11 PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   If a vehicle is subject to §
92.10, the law enforcement officer shall hold a sale at the time and place
appointed, within view of the vehicle to be sold.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder. However, if
no bids are entered or the bids entered are less than the costs incurred by the
city, the law enforcement officer than the costs incurred by the city, the law
enforcement officer may enter a bid on behalf of the city in an amount equal to
the costs.
   (C)   When the purchase price is paid, the law enforcement officer shall
execute a certificate of sale in duplicate; the original shall be delivered to
the purchaser and a copy filed with the City Recorder.
   (D)   The certificate of sale shall be on a form provided by the City
Recorder.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.12 REDEMPTION BEFORE SALE.
   (A)   (1)   A vehicle impounded under the provision of this chapter may be
redeemed by its owner or by the person in charge of the property from which the
vehicle was removed by applying to the law enforcement officer before sale or
disposition has taken place.
      (2)   The person shall:
         (a)   Submit satisfactory evidence of ownership or interest in the
vehicle to the law enforcement officer;
         (b)   Pay the costs owing at the time the application to redeem is
made; and
         (c)   Give evidence that the nuisance character of the vehicle will
not be resumed.
   (B)   Upon compliance with division (A) above, the law enforcement officer
shall execute a receipt and cause the vehicle to be returned.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.13 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   After disposing of the discarded vehicle and deducting any money
received from sale of the vehicle from the costs, the City Recorder shall give
notice by personal service or by registered or certified mail to the person in
charge of the property from which the vehicle was removed:
      (1)   Of the unpaid costs of abatement;
      (2)   The costs as indicated will be assessed to, and become a lien
against, the real property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the
notice; and
      (3)   That if the person in charge of the property objects to the
indicated costs of the abatement, a written notice of objection may be filed
with the City Recorder within 20 days from the date of the notice of unpaid
costs.
   (B)   Within 40 days of the date of the notice of objection, objections to
the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by the Council.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, or within ten days of a Council determination made under
division (B) above, assessment of the costs shall be made by Council resolution
and be entered in the docket of city liens. When the entry is made, it shall
constitute a lien on the real property from which the nuisance was removed or
abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
Interest shall accrue from the date of the entry of the lien into the lien
docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the person in charge of the property shall not
void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive notice of the proposed
assessment render the assessment void. The assessment shall remain a valid lien
against the property.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted; and, upon conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 per
day for each day said violation continues.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-24-1992; Ord. 428, passed 10-28-2013)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   City finance
   
93.03   General supervision of the cemetery
   
93.04   Flowers and shrubs
   
93.05   Monuments and markers
   
93.06   Interments and removals
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions will apply and be controlling in interpreting the
effect and construction to be placed upon various portions of this chapter.
   CEMETERY. Includes a burial park for earth interments.
   INTERMENT. The permanent disposition of the remains of a deceased person by
cremation or inurnment, or burial.
   LOT OR BURIAL SPACE. The terms LOT or BURIAL PLOT shall be used
interchangeably and shall apply with like effect to any one grave, or to any
one adjoining niche. Single grave spaces shall be at least four feet by eight
feet by four feet depth.
   MEMORIAL. Includes a monument, marker, tablet, headstone, tombstone, urn,
and crypt and niche plates.
   MONUMENT. Includes a tombstone or memorial of granite or other approved
stone, which shall not extend above the surface or level of the ground.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 93.02 CITY FINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall receive, issue proper receipts for, and place in
appropriate cemetery funds all monies due the City of Cascade Locks
(hereinafter referred to as the "city") from the sale of lots, services
furnished and from all other sources.
   (B)   There shall be appointed a Cemetery Superintendent by the Mayor with
Council approval, and he/she shall keep the following records in conjunction
with the City Administration Department:
      (1)   A diagram of each lot sold in the cemetery and identified by number
of block, number of lots, date sold and name and address of owner.
      (2)   An index of lot numbers showing full name of the owner and lot and
block number.
      (3)   An interment record register containing a cumulative record of
burials; showing the date of interment, the name, the place of death, name and
address of funeral director, lot, block, and location of grave.
      (4)   A lot ownership record containing copies of receipts issued at the
time of sale of the lots. The city is authorized to collect a plot fee, as
established from time to time by the City Council, for each transfer of
ownership from the city to the purchaser.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 93.03 GENERAL SUPERVISION OF THE CEMETERY.
   (A)   Subject to the order of the City Council, the Superintendent shall
have absolute charge of the cemetery and is authorized to enforce the rules; to
maintain order; to supervise all workmen, visitors, and drivers; to expel from
the grounds any improper person or persons, or those who violate the rules; and
to refuse admission to any person or materials when he/she may deem such action
necessary. The Superintendent shall have and is hereby granted the powers of
arrest for any and all violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All lots are sold subject to the rules and regulations concerning this
cemetery now in force or which may thereafter be adopted. No lots will be used
for any other than burial of the human dead.
   (C)   All work in the cemetery will be done under the direction of the
Superintendent. Lots will be set to grass and mowed in season only.
   (D)   No transfer of any lot, burial space or burial plot may be made to
anyone; except that it may be resold to the City of Cascade Locks at a price
equal to 10% less per grave space than the price paid by the grantee.
   (E)   No enclosure of any nature, such as fences, copings, hedges, or
ditches, shall be allowed around any burial lot.
   (F)   Grave mounts or mounds will not be allowed. No lot or lots shall be
raised above the established grade. The grave will receive the same general
care as other parts of the lawn, the grass being cut and the leaves and debris
raked off at the time that the remainder of the lawn is cleaned.
   (G)   The city shall take reasonable precaution to protect the plot owners
and the property rights of plot owners within the cemetery from loss or damage;
but it will not be liable, and it distinctly disclaims all responsibility for
loss or damage caused by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves,
vandals, strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable
accidents, invasions, insurrections, riots, or order of any military or civil
authority, whether the damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein
provided.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the plot owner to notify the City
Administration Office of any change of their mailing address. Notice sent to a
plot owner at the last address on file in the office of the city shall be
considered sufficient and proper legal notification.
   (I)   All fittings, adornment, urns, inscriptions, and/or arrangements are
hereby declared to be subject to the approval and control of, and acceptance or
rejection by, the Superintendent under the direction of the Council.
   (J)   No flower receptacles may be placed on any lot or plot, unless of
metal of approved material, size, and design, and set level with the
established grade.
   (K)   If boxes, shells, toys, metal designs, ornaments, chairs, settees,
vases, glass, wood, or iron cases, and similar articles are placed upon lots,
the Superintendent reserves the right to remove the same.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 93.04 FLOWERS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Cut flowers will be removed from the grave at the discretion of the
Superintendent, and in no event shall they be left thereon longer than two
weeks. As soon as practicable after the flowers are removed from a new grave,
the earth shall be settled and restored to conform to the surrounding surface
of the cemetery.
   (B)   No trees, shrubs, or plants shall be planted, pruned, or removed
without the consent of the Superintendent. Acting for the best interests of the
cemetery, the Superintendent shall have authority to prune, remove, or
transplant any tree, shrub, plant, or anything upon a lot or plot when he/she
may consider such a course necessary.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 93.05 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Under no conditions shall upright monuments be allowed within the
plotted cemetery area as administered by the city.
   (B)   Every tombstone shall be erected upon a solid concrete foundation with
a mixture of not less than four parts sand and gravel to one part cement, and
must be no less than eight inches in the ground and otherwise of sufficient
size and depth in ground to permanently support a tombstone, said foundation to
exceed the size of said monument at least six inches on all sides; and the
Superintendent or his/her assistant shall supervise the placing and setting of
tombstones, unless written permission otherwise is given by Superintendent and
filed with the city.
   (C)   All tombstones must be good grade granite or bronze, or other approved
stone. No temporary grave markers will be installed or erected if the same will
in any manner interfere with the mowing, care, or other maintenance of said
cemetery, or any part thereof.
   (D)   The city will exercise all possible care to protect raised lettering,
carving, or ornaments on any memorial or other structure on any lot, but it
disclaims responsibility for any damage or injury whatever.
   (E)   No material shall be allowed to remain in longer than is reasonably
necessary for any construction work. No work shall be started on Saturday which
cannot be completed on that day. No heavy teaming or trucking will be allowed
in wet weather.
   (F)   If any monument, effigy, or structure whatever, or any inscription or
sign be placed upon any lot which the Superintendent shall decide to be
offensive, unsightly, or improper, the city or Superintendent reserves the
right to remove the same from the cemetery grounds.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 93.06 INTERMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   (A)   No interment will be permitted or body received unless the proper
certificate is furnished giving the name and residence of the deceased, the
name of the nearest relative, and the time and place of death. Twelve hours
daylight notice must be given before any interment.
   (B)   Liner or vault must be used.
   (C)   Only one casket shall be interred in a grave.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued unless all monies due the city have been
paid. The burial permit must be filed with the Superintendent upon delivery of
the body. Notice of the hour of the funeral must be given at least 12 hours
prior to burial services.
   (E)   The City shall not be liable for the authenticity of the interment
permit, nor for the identity of the person sought to be interred beyond
verifying that the State ID Tag number corresponds with the number on the
permit. The cemetery shall not be liable for any difference in identity between
the person whose remains are intended to be interred and the person named in
said permit.
   (F)   A disinterment permit is to be procured from the State Board of
Health. No disinterment shall be made except with the consent of the
Superintendent, or public officer or official having authority to order such
disinterment and upon the written consent of the authorized representative
(next of kin). The city shall use the utmost care in making a removal, but it
shall assume no responsibility or liability whatsoever for damage to any
casket, cement or steel grave vault or burial case, or urn incurred in making
the removal. A disinterment charge shall be levied for any necessary
disinterment.
   (G)   The city shall not be held responsible for any order given by
telephone, or for any mistake occurring from the want of precise or proper
instructions as to the particular space, size, and location in a plot where
interment is desired.
   (H)   The city reserves and shall have the right to correct any errors that
may be made by it either in making interments, disinterment, or removals; or in
the description, transfer, or conveyance of any interment property, either by
canceling such conveyance and substituting and conveying in lieu thereof
property of equal value and similar location as far as possible, or as may be
selected by the city; or, in the sole discretion of the city, by refunding the
amount of money paid in account of said purchase. In the event such error shall
involve the interment of the remains of any person in such property, the city
reserves and shall have the right to remove and/or transfer such remains so
interred to such other property of equal value and similar location as may be
substituted and conveyed in lieu thereof in accordance with O.R.S. 97.220.
   (I)   No interments shall be permitted on Sundays, or any of the following
holidays; Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas, New
Year's Day, and Washington's Birthday, unless authorized by Superintendent.
   (J)   Arrangements for opening a closing of burial plots shall be at the
expense of the plot owners or heirs.
   (K)   Disbursement of cremains is prohibited.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-26-2017)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Scope
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   General prohibition
   
94.05   Noises prohibited
   
94.06   Exemptions
   
94.07   Permitted exemptions
   
94.08   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalties
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, and quiet of the citizens of Cascade Locks through the
reduction, control, and prevention of loud and raucous noise, or any noise
which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety; or causes public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to the control of all sound originating within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   CITY. The City of Cascade Locks.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of city or the City
Administrator's designee.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREA. Includes, but is not limited to, real property
normally used for sleeping, or normally used as a school, church, hospital or
public library.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture, or
corporation.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be detected by a reasonable person of
ordinary sensitivities using his or her unaided hearing faculties.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures on real property, owned by a
government entity and normally accessible to the public, including, but not
limited to, parks and other recreational areas.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any real property which contains a structure or building
in which one or more persons reside, provided that the structure or building is
properly zoned, or is legally nonconforming, for residential use in accordance
with the terms and maps of the city's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.04 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued:
      (1)   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise; or
      (2)   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity, within the jurisdictional limits of the city; or
      (3)   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in
time or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood from which said noises emanate, or as to unreasonably interfere
with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or
customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business.
   (B)   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud and
raucous include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
      (2)   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      (3)   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
      (4)   The duration of the sound; and
      (5)   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.05 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are declared to be per se violations of this chapter.
This enumeration does not constitute an exclusive list:
   (A)   Unreasonable noises. The unreasonable making of, or knowingly and
unreasonably permitting to be made, any unreasonably loud, boisterous or
unusual noise, disturbance, commotion or vibration in any boarding facility,
dwelling, place of business or other structure, or upon any public street,
park, or other place or building. The ordinary and usual sounds, noises,
commotion or vibration incidental to the operation of these places when
conducted in accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner
which will not unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent
residences or which will not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent
places of business are exempted from this provision.
   (B)   Vehicle horns, signaling devices, and similar devices. The sounding of
any horn, signaling device, or other similar device, on any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle on any right-of-way or in any public space of the
city, for more than ten consecutive seconds. The sounding of any horn,
signaling device, or other similar device, as a danger warning is exempt from
this prohibition.
   (C)   Non-emergency signaling devices. Sounding or permitting sounding any
amplified signal from any bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device,
intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, from any place for more than ten
consecutive seconds in any hourly period. The reasonable sounding of such
devices by houses of religious worship, ice cream trucks, seasonal contribution
solicitors or by the city for traffic control purposes are exempt from the
operation of this provision.
   (D)   Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or permitting
the sounding outdoors of any emergency signaling device including fire,
burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar emergency signaling
device, except in an emergency or except as provided in divisions (1) and (2)
below.
      (1)   Testing of an emergency signaling device shall occur between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time. In
no case shall such test time exceed five minutes. Testing of the emergency
signaling system shall not occur more than once in each calendar month.
      (2)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, shall terminate within 15 minutes of
activation unless an emergency exists. If a false or accidental activation of
an alarm occurs more than twice in a calendar month, the owner or person
responsible for the alarm shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Radios, televisions, phonographs, stereos, musical instruments and
similar electronic devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
stereo, musical instrument, or similar electronic device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily
listening to the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of neighbors and passers-by, or is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from any person in a commercial, industrial area, or public space; or
unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighbors in residential
or noise sensitive areas, including multi-family or single-family dwellings.
   (F)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems, and similar
devices. 
      (1)   The unreasonably loud and raucous use or operation of a
loudspeaker, amplifier, public address system, or other device for producing or
reproducing sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in the
following areas:
         (a)   Within or adjacent to residential or noise-sensitive areas;
         (b)   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the
real property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
unreasonably loud and raucous.
      (2)   This shall not apply to any public performance, gathering, or
parade for which a permit has been obtained from the city.
   (G)   Yelling, shouting, and similar activities. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing in residential or noise sensitive areas or in public
places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place
so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of reasonable
persons of ordinary sensitivities. This section is to be applied only to those
situations where the disturbance is not a result of the content of the
communication but due to the volume, duration, location, timing or other
factors not based on content.
   (H)   Animals and birds. Unreasonably loud and raucous noise emitted by an
animal or bird for which a person is responsible. A person is responsible for
an animal if the person owns, controls or otherwise cares for the animal or
bird.
   (I)   Loading or unloading merchandise, materials, equipment. The creation
of unreasonably loud, raucous, and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle at a place of business or residence.
   (J)   Construction or repair of buildings, excavation of streets and
highways. The construction, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or
the excavation of streets and highways other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., on weekdays. In cases of emergency, construction or repair
noises are exempt from this provision. In non-emergency situations, the City
Administrator may issue a permit, upon application, if the City Administrator
determines that the public health and safety, as affected by loud and raucous
noise caused by construction or repair of buildings or excavation of streets
and highways between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will not be impaired,
and if the City Administrator further determines that loss or inconvenience
would otherwise result. The permit shall grant permission in non-emergency
cases for a period of not more than three days. The permit may be renewed once
for a period of three days or less.
   (K)   Noise sensitive areas - schools, courts, churches, hospitals, and
similar institutions. The creation of any unreasonably loud and raucous noise
adjacent to any noise sensitive area while it is in use, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings of the institution or which disturbs the persons
in these institutions; provided that conspicuous signs delineating the
boundaries of the noise sensitive area are displayed in the streets surrounding
the noise sensitive area.
   (L)   Blowers, and similar devices. In residential or noise sensitive areas,
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the operation of any noise-
creating blower, power fan, or any internal combustion engine, the operation of
which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, provided
that the noise is unreasonably loud and raucous and can be heard across the
property line of the property from which it emanates.
   (M)   Commercial establishments adjacent to residential property.
Unreasonably loud and raucous noise from the premises of any commercial
establishment, including any outdoor area which is part of or under the control
of the establishment, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. which is
plainly audible at a distance of five feet from any residential property.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out in §
94.05 and are in addition to the exemptions specifically set forth in §
94.05:
   (A)   Motor vehicles on traffic ways of the city, provided that the
prohibition of §
94.05(B) continues to apply.
   (B)   Repairs of utility structures which pose a clear and immediate danger
to life, health, or significant loss of property.
   (C)   Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police
activity, or imminent danger, provided that the prohibition contained in §
94.05(D) continues to apply.
   (D)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work.
   (E)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf
of the city, the state, or the federal government, between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it impractical
to perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (F)   Outdoor school and playground activities. Reasonable activities
conducted on public playgrounds and public or private school grounds, which are
conducted in accordance with the manner in which such spaces are generally
used, including but not limited to, school athletic and school entertainment
events.
   (G)   Other outdoor events. Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and
sporting events, and other similar outdoor events, provided that a permit has
been obtained from the appropriate permitting authority.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.07 PERMITTED EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An exemption may be permitted by the City Council for acts that are
prohibited by this chapter by submitting a request to the City Recorder at
least 30 days prior to the time for which the exemption is sought. The request
shall state the provision for which an exemption is being sought, the period of
time the exemption is to apply, the reason the exemption is sought, and any
other supporting information which the city may reasonably require.
   (B)   The City Council may consider the following in deciding whether to
grant an exemption:
      (1)   The nature and duration of the sound emitted;
      (2)   Whether the public health, safety or welfare could be endangered;
      (3)   The duration of the exemption;
      (4)   The nature of the surrounding properties;
      (5)   The benefit to the community; and
      (6)   Whether the applicant has a record of compliance with the terms of
previously granted exemptions.
   (C)   Notice shall be given to affected neighborhood associations, owners,
and residents of property likely to be affected by the exemption. The City
Recorder, in his/her sole discretion, may designate the area and manner in
which notice must be given.
   (D)   Persons affected by the exemption may present objections, in writing
or in person, regarding the exemption to the City Council at any regularly
scheduled City Council meeting. The City Council may consider such objections
and, in their sole discretion, decide whether to grant, revoke, or deny the
exemption.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The following individuals shall enforce this chapter: The City Administrator
or his designee will have primary responsibility for the enforcement of the
noise regulations contained in this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the City Administrator or his designee from obtaining voluntary
compliance by way of warning, notice or education.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 94.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction which is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-24-2017; Ord. 445, passed 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Nuisances affecting public health
   
95.03   Nuisances affecting public peace; radio and television interference
   
95.04   Unenumerated nuisances
   
95.05   Abatement procedure
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Includes all discarded motor vehicle parts, machinery, machinery
parts, appliances or parts thereof; iron or other metal, glass, paper, timber,
wood or other waste or discarded material, or material stockpiled for the
purpose of recycling.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser
or other person having possession or control of property or the supervision of
any construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The person responsible for abating a nuisance shall
include:
      (1)   The owner;
      (2)   The person in charge of property, as defined above; and/or
      (3)   The person who caused to come into or continue in existence a
nuisance as defined in this chapter or another ordinance of this city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place of accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
(Ord. 344, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 95.02 NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit on property owned or controlled by him
or her a nuisance affecting public health.
   (B)   The following are nuisances affecting public health and may be abated
as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Debris. Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure and other refuse
that are not removed within a reasonable time and that affect the health of the
public;
      (2)   Stagnant water. Stagnant water which affords a breeding place for
mosquitoes and other insect pests;
      (3)   Water pollution. Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream
or drainage ditch by sewage, industrial wastes or other substances placed in or
near the water in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the
water;
      (4)   Odor. Premises which are in such a state or condition as to cause
an offensive odor or which are in an unsanitary condition;
      (5)   Surface drainage. Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises;
      (6)   Creating a hazard. No person shall create a hazard by:
         (a)   Maintaining or leaving in a place accessible to children a
container with a compartment and a door or lid which locks or fastens
automatically when closed and which cannot be easily opened from the inside; or
         (b)   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property upon
which there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation or other hole of a depth
of four feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more, fail or refuse to
cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
      (7)   Attractive nuisances.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit thereon:
            1.   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children;
            2.   Lumber, logs or piling placed or stored in a manner so as to
be attractive, dangerous and accessible to children; or
            3.   An open pit, quarry, cistern or other excavation without
safeguards or barriers to prevent such places from being used by children.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to authorized construction projects
with reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing children.
      (8)   Snow and ice. No owner or person in charge of property, improved or
unimproved, abutting a public sidewalk shall be responsible for snow removal
when the snow has been placed on the sidewalk by a public agency. However, no
owner or person in charge of property, improved or unimproved, abutting on
public sidewalk shall permit:
         (a)   Snow to remain on the sidewalk for a period longer than the
first eight hours of daylight after the snow has fallen; or
         (b)   Ice to remain on the sidewalk for more than eight hours of
daylight after the ice has formed, unless the ice is covered with sand, ashes
or other suitable material to assure safe travel.
      (9)   Defective sidewalks. No owner of property, improved or unimproved,
abutting on a public sidewalk, shall permit:
         (a)   A sidewalk to deteriorate to such a condition that because of
cracks, chipping, weeds, settling, covering by dirt or other similar
occurrences, the sidewalk becomes a hazard to persons using it; and
         (b)   The city shall not be liable to any person for loss or injury to
a person or property suffered or sustained by reason of any accident on
sidewalks caused by ice, snow, encumbrances, obstructions, cracks, chipping,
weeds, settling, holes covered by dirt or other similar conditions. Abutting
property owners shall maintain sidewalk free from such conditions.
      (10)   Fences along a sidewalk.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or
maintain a barbed-wire fence thereon, or permit barbed-wire to remain as part
of a fence along a sidewalk; except such wire may be placed above the top of
other fencing not less than six feet, six inches high.
         (b)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct,
maintain or operate an electric fence along a sidewalk or public way, or along
the joining property line of another person.
      (11)   Surface waters, drainage.
         (a)   No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall
suffer or permit rainwater, ice or snow to fall from the building or structure
onto a street or public sidewalk or to flow across the sidewalk.
         (b)   The owner or person in charge of property shall install and
maintain in proper state of repair adequate drainpipes or a drainage system, so
that any overflow water accumulating on the roof or about the building is not
carried across or upon the sidewalk.
      (12)   Trees, brush, grass, weeds.
         (a)   The owner, person in possession or the agent of the owner of any
tract or parcel of land improved or unimproved shall, on and after May 1 of
each year, keep, cut and remove therefrom all dead bushes, dead trees, stumps
and other items likely to cause fire and to spread fire, and shall cause the
grass and vegetation to be cut to a height of less than ten inches at least
once each year after May 1 and before July 15.
         (b)   Brush, bushes and limbs of all kinds shall be trimmed and cut
back so that they shall not project over the sidewalk or roadway area. Limbs
may be allowed to project at an elevation of not less than nine feet above the
level of the sidewalk and not less than 14 feet above the level of the roadway.
Limbs, trees and other growth shall not be allowed to interfere with city
utility lines, or to block the view of the street signs or traffic signs.
         (c)   Nothing herein contained shall be considered to apply to bushes,
trees or other vegetation grown for food or fuel: providing that the health and
safety of the public be not hereby endangered by the growth of such growth or
vegetation.
         (d)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow to stand a
dead or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property
on or near the property.
      (13)   Junk.
         (a)   No person shall keep any junk outdoors on any street, lot or
premises, or in a building that is not wholly or entirely closed, except doors
used for ingress and egress.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to junk kept in a duly licensed
junk yard or automobile wrecking house.
(Ord. 344, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE; RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical or other
device, apparatus, instrument or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception by a radio or television
receiver of good engineering design.
   (B)   This section does not apply to devices licensed, approved and operated
under the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 344, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 UNENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   The acts, conditions or objects specifically enumerated and defined in
§§
95.02 and
95.03 are declared public nuisances; and such acts, conditions or objects may
be abated by any of the procedures set forth in §
95.05.
   (B)   In addition to the nuisances specifically enumerated within this
chapter, every other thing, substance or act which is determined by the Council
to be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of the
city is declared a nuisance and may be abated as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 344, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 95.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Upon determination by the City Administrator, or designee, that a
nuisance exists, the Administrator, or designee, shall issue a warning citation
to the owner or person in charge of the property. The warning citation shall be
personally served or mailed by certified mail with a return receipt requested.
      (2)   Such warning citation shall include the following information:
         (a)   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which such nuisance exists;
         (b)   A description of the conditions comprising the nuisance;
         (c)   A direction to abate the nuisance within 14 days from the date
of the warning citation; and
         (d)   A statement that unless the conditions comprising the nuisance
are removed or corrected, the owner or person in charge will be cited into
Municipal Court for the violation.
      (3)   Fourteen days after the issuance of the warning citation, the City
Administrator or designee shall inspect the premises to determine if the owner
or person in charge of the property has abated the conditions comprising the
nuisance, and if not abated, the City Administrator or designee may issue a
citation to the owner or person in charge of the property to appear in the
Municipal Court at the next available date. The citation shall be personally
served or mailed by certified mail with a return receipt requested.
      (4)   In addition to the citation issued under this section, the City
Administrator or designee shall cause a notice to be posted on the premises, or
on the public right-of-way abutting the premises where the condition exists,
stating the condition comprising the nuisance and the date and time that the
owner or person in charge is to appear in Municipal Court.
   (B)   Summary abatement. The procedure provided by this chapter is not
exclusive but is in addition to procedures provided by other ordinances; and
the Health Officer, the Chief of the Fire Department or Chief of Police may
proceed summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which unmistakably exists
and from which there is imminent danger to human life or property.
   (C)   Abatement ordered by Court.
      (1)   In addition to any fine imposed, the Court may order the person to
abate the nuisance within a specified time, as determined reasonable by the
Court.
      (2)   If, within the time specified by the Court, the owner or person in
charge of the property has not abated the nuisance, the Court, upon application
by the city, may order the city to abate the nuisance and charge the owner of
the property for the cost of abatement and, if necessary, place a lien against
the property as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Assessment of cost of city ordered abatement.
      (1)   The City Recorder, or designee, shall keep an accurate record of
the expense incurred by the city in abating the nuisance, and shall include
therein a charge of 25% of the expense for administration overhead.
      (2)   The City Recorder, by registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, shall forward to the owner or person in charge of the property a
notice stating:
         (a)   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative
overhead;
         (b)   The cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice;
and
         (c)   That if the owner or person in charge of the property objects to
the cost of the abatement as indicated, he or she may file a notice of
objection with the City Recorder not more than ten days from the date of the
notice requesting a hearing.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the Council shall set a date
to consider objections. The objector shall be notified of such date and at said
hearing the Council shall hear the objection and determine the cost to be
assessed. Hearing shall be held within 60 days of date notice of objection is
received.
      (4)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, an assessment of the costs as stated or as determined by
Council shall be made by resolution and shall thereupon be entered in the
docket of city liens and, upon such entry being made, shall constitute a lien
upon the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
      (5)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvement are enforced and shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum.
Such interest shall commence to run from date of the entry of the lien in the
lien docket.
      (6)   An error in the name of the owner or person in charge of the
property shall not void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the
notice of the proposed assessment render the assessment void; but it shall
remain a valid lien against the property.
      (7)   The city may, for purposes of giving notice under this section,
rely upon the most current records of the County Recorder and County Assessor
for the purposes of identifying the name and address of the property owner,
unless the city has actual notice that the property is owned by others.
(Ord. 344, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.
   (B)   Separate violations.
      (1)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense, for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
      (2)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter, but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a
nuisance within 14 days of the date of notice to abate, will relieve the person
responsible from the imposition of any fine under §
95.05.
(Ord. 344, passed 7-10-2000)
CHAPTER 96: RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
Encroachments within a Public Right-of-Way
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Applicability
   
96.03   Encroachment permit process established
   
96.04   Standards for encroachments
   
96.05   Encroachment permit
Right-of-Way Management
   
96.20   Short title
   
96.21   Definitions
   
96.22   Jurisdiction and management of public rights-of-way
   
96.23   Construction standards and permits
 
   
96.99   Penalty
ENCROACHMENTS WITHIN A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Cascade Locks Encroachment Ordinance.”
(Ord. 395, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 96.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to any situation where a private party wishes to
place an object within the right-of-way on a permanent or semipermanent basis
adjacent to land within the downtown land use designation of the City
Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map, as may be amended.
(Ord. 395, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 96.03 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT PROCESS ESTABLISHED.
   No person shall place an object in or above a public right-of-way without
obtaining an encroachment permit. Such permits shall be issued by the City
Administrator. The form of the application and permit will be established by
the City Administrator.
(Ord. 395, passed 7-28-2008) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 STANDARDS FOR ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   No encroachments may be made within a travel, bike or parking lane
within a street.
      (2)   Encroachments may be made within an unimproved right-of-way if all
other standards are met and if the encroachment permit includes a provision
indicating the encroachment must be totally removed by the owner and at the
owner’s expense upon revocation of the encroachment permit by the city.
   (B)   Sidewalks. Encroachments may be made into a sidewalk area subject to
the following standards.
      (1)   Encroachments can only be proposed and may only be owned by the
property owner or business owner fronting on the sidewalk where the
encroachment is proposed.
      (2)   No encroachment shall be designed or allowed so that it blocks a
pathway 60 inches wide along the sidewalk, running the length of the property,
which is free from any obstruction.
      (3)   Street furniture:
         (a)   Outside of the 60-inch obstruction free pathway, privately owned
items may be placed such as planters, flower boxes, light poles, newspaper
boxes, benches and other street furniture;
         (b)   Outdoor seating, with chairs and tables, may be allowed subject
to the 60-inch obstruction free pathway being maintained and all other laws and
regulations pertaining to food service being met; and
         (c)   All street furniture, including planters, trash enclosures,
seating and the like shall be consistent with the design standards of the City
Downtown Design Plan and Strategy dated January 2004.
      (4)   Flower baskets may be hung on street light poles and utility poles
subject to approval of the hanger design by the Public Works Superintendent. No
basket shall have vegetation hanging lower than seven feet above the sidewalk
within the 60-inch obstruction free pathway.
      (5)   Awnings:
         (a)   Awnings of wood, metal or canvas may be affixed to the front of
a building and extend over a sidewalk;
         (b)   All awnings construction or installation must obtain appropriate
building permits;
         (c)   All awnings must conform to the design standards established in
the City Downtown Design Plan and Strategy and in the D (Downtown) Zone and C
(Commercial) Zone as that zone applies within the Downtown Comprehensive Plan
designated area. Awnings in the right-of-way and created as part of newly
constructed buildings shall be reviewed and approved along with the rest of the
building design through the site and design review process;
         (d)   Awnings must maintain a clearance of eight feet above the grade
of the sidewalk;
         (e)   Awnings may have vertical support posts as long as those posts
are outside the 60-inch obstruction free pathway; and
         (f)   Awnings shall be designed and installed with the intent of
reducing the danger of accumulated snow or ice falling within the 60-inch
obstruction free pathway. Provisions will be made to prevent rain water from
running over or accumulating on the sidewalk or creating ice build up on the
sidewalk.
   (C)   Signs.
      (1)   Temporary or portable signs will conform to the Sign Code Chapter
of the Community Development Code.
      (2)   Signs placed on awnings shall comply with all standards and
processes of the Sign Code Chapter of the Community Development Code and shall
be considered as part of all signage for the subject property.
(Ord. 395, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 96.05 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall administer the encroachment permit
process.
   (B)   That process shall include the following elements.
      (1)   A permit application will be filed that includes the names and
signatures of the property owner as well as the applicant if not the owner.
      (2)   A filing fee for an encroachment permit will be considered as an
administrative review type of application and can be found on the various land
use and development permit resolution that sets a fee schedule for those types
of applications.
      (3)   A permit application will include detailed drawings of the proposed
encroaching object(s) including a materials list and color samples. If it is
mounted on the building, such as awnings or flower boxes, the drawings will
show the object placed on the building.
      (4)   A site plan drawn to scale will accompany the application showing
the building, doors, sidewalk and proposed encroaching objects(s). The site
plan will identify the 60-inch obstruction free pathway.
      (5)   The application will include a statement, approved by the City
Attorney, by which the applicant assumes all responsibility for maintenance and
upkeep of the encroaching object and waives all city liability and holds the
city harmless against any claims.
      (6)   If the City Administrator finds all the standards have been met and
finds there are no situations or conditions peculiar to the property or
proposal that make the placement or installation of the encroaching object
potentially harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, then the permit
will be approved.
      (7)   Conditions may be placed on a permit in order to help mitigate
potential impacts on the public health, safety and welfare; in order to help
assure compliance with the Downtown Design Standards; and in order to help
assure compliance with other adopted city policy.
      (8)   Encroachment permits may have a time limit if found necessary and
appropriate, or may run in perpetuity until revoked.
      (9)   Encroaching objects for which a permit has been obtained may be
maintained and replaced without requiring a new encroachment permit, providing:
         (a)   The maintenance and replacement is consistent with the design
approved in the original permit and any conditions placed on that permit; and
         (b)   No more than one year has passed since an encroaching object
being replaced was removed.
      (10)   An encroachment permit may be revoked if the City Administrator
finds:
         (a)   The continued encroachment creates a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare;
         (b)   There is a public need to use the right-of-way necessitating the
removal of the encroaching object; or
         (c)   The encroaching object is not being maintained or is not
consistent with the design approved with the permit.
      (11)   Revocation of an encroachment permit will be done only following a
seven-day notice to the permit holder, except it may be done immediately when
there is imminent danger to lives or property.
(Ord. 395, passed 7-28-2008)
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 96.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the "Public Right-of-Way Management
Ordinance."
(Ord. 435, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 96.21 DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given below. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may"
is permissive. Words not defined in this section shall be given the meaning set
forth in the Communications Policy Act of 1934, the Cable Communications Policy
Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, all as they have been amended
from time to time. References to statutory or regulatory provisions include any
amendments thereto, unless otherwise indicated. If not defined there, the words
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   ABOVEGROUND FACILITIES. See OVERHEAD FACILITIES.
   AFFILIATED INTEREST. Has the same meaning as O.R.S. 759.010.
   CABLE FACILITIES OR SYSTEM. The plant and equipment, other than customer
premises equipment, used by a cable service provider.
   CABLE SERVICE. To stay consistent with federal laws, it is the one-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming, or other (such as music)
programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for
the selection or use of such video programming or other programming service.
   CITY. The City of Cascade Locks, an Oregon municipal corporation, and
individuals authorized to act on the city's behalf.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected governing body of the City of Cascade Locks,
Oregon.
   CITY PROPERTY. All real property owned by the city, other than public
rights-of-way and utility easements as those are defined in this section, and
all property held in a proprietary capacity by the city, which are not subject
to right-of-way franchising as provided in this subchapter.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES OR SYSTEM. The plant and equipment, other than
customer premises equipment, used by a communications service provider.
   COMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any provider of communications services, whether
the providers directly or indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages
communications facilities within the city.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Any service provided for the purpose of transmission
of information including, but not limited to, voice, video, or data, without
regard to transmission protocol employed, whether or not the transmission
medium is owned by the provider itself or whether or not the transmission
medium is wireline. Communications service includes all forms of telephone
services and voice, video, data or information transport, but does not include:
(1) cable service; (2) open video system service, as defined in 47 CFR 76; (3)
private communications system services provided without using public rights-of-
way; (4) over the air radio or television broadcasting to the public at large
from facilities licensed by the Federal Communications Commission; and (5) any
direct-to-home satellite services within the meaning of Section 602 of the
Telecommunications Act.
   CONDUIT. Includes but is not limited to any structure, or portion thereof,
containing one or more ducts, conduits, manholes, hand-holes, vaults, bolts, or
other facilities used for any telegraph, telephone, cable television,
electrical, or communications conductors, or cable right-of-way, owned or
controlled, in whole or in part, by one or more public utilities.
   DAYS. Calendar days unless otherwise specified.
   DUCT. A single enclosed raceway for conductors or cable.
   FACILIT(Y)IES. Any tangible component installed, maintained, or operated by
user within the right-of-way. By way of example, the term includes but is not
limited to any pole, wire, sensor, loop, light, stabilization or "guy" wire,
anchor, pipe, conduit, line, main, duct, cable, wire, switch, transformer,
value, antennae or other equipment, including any equipment box or vault,
located wholly or in part under, on, or above the surface of the ground within
any right-of-way or easement. FACILIT(Y)IES also includes any time placed in
the right-of-way for the purpose of providing electric power, natural gas,
telephone communications, radio, cable television, internet access, sewer,
water, storm sewer or other utility or similar service.
   FRANCHISE. The privilege granted by this subchapter or another section to
use public rights- of-way and city-owned utility easements within the city for
a dedicated purpose and for specific compensation.
   GROSS REVENUES. For telecommunications carriers, is defined at O.R.S.
221.515(2); to the extent the remainder of this paragraph is inconsistent with
O.R.S. 221.515(2), such language shall not apply to telecommunications
carriers. For entities other than telecommunications carriers, GROSS REVENUES
means all monthly service and franchise fees actually collected from grantee's
customers within the quarter for basic cable service and communications
service. Gross revenues also includes revenue from the sale or lease of excess
capacity on grantee's cable or communications systems. Gross revenues does not
include revenues derived from installation, construction or connection work
provided to grantee's customers; any taxes on services furnished by grantee
that are imposed directly on any customer by state or federal law and collected
by grantee on behalf of the state or federal jurisdiction imposing the tax; bad
debts written off by grantee in the normal course of its business; and any
refunds rebates, or discounts made to grantee's customers or other third
parties.
   OVERHEAD FACILITIES. Utility poles, utility facilities and cable and
communications facilities above the surface of the ground, including the
underground supports and foundations for such facilities. Also, ABOVEGROUND
FACILITIES.
   PUBLIC RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY. Includes, but is not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over these
areas. For purposes of this subchapter, this definition applies only to the
extent of the city's right, title, interest or authority to grant permission to
occupy and use these areas for utility facilities. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY also
includes UTILITY EASEMENTS as defined below.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. Cable and communications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for OVERHEAD FACILITIES.
   USER. A person that performs work and/or has facilities within the city's
right-of-way, whether or not the user has a permit and whether or not the
facilities are authorized to be located in the right-of- way.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. Any easement acquired, established, dedicated or devoted
exclusively to the city for public utility purposes. A utility easement not
exclusively owned and controlled by the city is not a "Utility Easement" under
this section.
   UTILITY FACILITIES. Those overhead or underground facilities of a user.
(Ord. 435, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 96.22 JURISDICTION AND MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over all
public rights-of- way within the city and authority of the city charter,
ordinances, and state law.
   (B)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over
public rights-of-way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal
interest in the right-of-way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory
management of each public right-of-way whether the legal interest in the public
right-of- way was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation,
condemnation, annexation, foreclosure or other means in accordance with
applicable law.
   (C)    No person shall occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without
the permission of the city. The city grants permission to use public rights-of-
way by franchises, licenses and permits.
   (D)   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory management of a right-of-
way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way, and does not
obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
   (E)   As the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in
response to a public health or safety emergency, the city has the right and
privilege to immediately require the person responsible, at its own expense, to
move or otherwise adjust its facilities located within the public rights- of-
way, or, upon consultation with the utility, the city may with its own forces
move or otherwise adjust such facilities, at the responsible person's expense.
(Ord. 435, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 96.23 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General construction standards. No person shall commence or continue
with the construction, installation, or operation of any facilities within a
public right-of-way except as provided in this section, and consistent with all
applicable codes, rules, and regulations.
   (B)   Construction codes. Facilities shall be constructed, installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and
local codes, rules and regulations including the National Electrical Code and
the National Electrical Safety Code.
   (C)   Construction permits. No person shall construct or install any
facilities within a public right-of-way without first obtaining a construction
permit, and paying any applicable construction permit fee, the amount of which
is set by Resolution of the Council. No permit shall be issued for the
construction or installation of facilities within a public right-of-way without
having first applied for and received a franchise, except in extenuating
circumstances and with the city's written permission.
   (D)   Permit applications. Applications for permits to construct, install or
modify facilities within a public right-of-way shall be submitted to the city
upon forms to be provided by the city and shall be accompanied by
documentation, drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to
demonstrate:
      (1)   That the facilities will be constructed or installed in accordance
with all applicable codes, rules and regulations.
      (2)   That the facilities will be constructed or installed in accordance
with the franchise agreement.
      (3)   The location and route of the facilities, if any, to be installed
aboveground or on existing utility poles.
      (4)   The location and route of all facilities on or in the public
rights-of-way to be located under the surface of the ground, including the line
and grade proposed for the burial at all points along the route which are
within the public rights-of-way. Existing facilities shall be differentiated on
the plans from new construction.
      (5)   The location of all of user's existing underground utilities,
conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public
rights-of-way along the underground route proposed by the applicant. A cross
section shall be provided showing new or existing facilities in relation to the
street, curb, sidewalk or right-of-way.
      (6)   The methods to be employed for protection of existing structures,
fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public rights-of-way, and
description of any improvements that the applicant proposes to temporarily or
permanently remove or relocate.
      (7)   The estimated cost of the work proposed.
   (E)   Construction schedule. All permit applications shall be accompanied by
a written schedule, which shall include a deadline for completion of the work.
The schedule shall be subject to approval by the city.
   (F)   Issuance of permit. If the application is approved, it may be approved
subject to any further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the
time, place and manner of performing the work as the city may deem necessary or
appropriate.
   (G)   Notice of construction. Except in the case of an emergency, the
permittee shall notify the city not less than two business days in advance of
any excavation or construction in the public rights-of- way.
   (H)   Compliance with permit. All construction practices and activities
shall be in accordance with the permit and approved final plans and
specifications for the facilities. The city's representatives shall be provided
access to the work site and any further information as they may require to
insure compliance with the permit and plans or protection of the public right-
of-way.
   (I)   Noncomplying work. Subject to the notice requirements in division (L)
(3) below, all work which does not comply with the permit, the approved or
corrected plans and specifications for the work, or the requirements of this
section, shall be removed at the sole expense of the permittee unless other
arrangement is agreed to by the city in writing. The City Administrator is
authorized to stop work in order to assure compliance with the provisions of
this section.
   (J)   Completion of construction. The permittee shall promptly complete all
construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the public rights-of-
way and other public and private property. All construction work within public
rights-of-way, including restoration, must be completed within 120 days of the
date of issuance of the construction permit unless an alternate schedule is
approved by the city.
   (K)   As-built drawings. The permittee shall furnish the city with two
complete sets of plans drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurately
depicting the location of all permittee's facilities constructed pursuant to
the permit, one set on paper and the other set in electronic format acceptable
to the city, such as Autocad. If requested, these plans shall be submitted to
the City Engineer within 60 days of the request, in a format mutually
acceptable to the permittee and City Engineer.
   (L)   Restoration of public rights-of-way and city property.
      (1)   When a permittee, or any person acting on their behalf, does any
work in or affecting any public rights-of-way or city property, they shall, at
their own expense, promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and restore the
ways or property to good order and condition unless otherwise directed by the
City Engineer, or unless otherwise specified by the permit.
      (2)   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this section, the permittee shall temporarily restore
and maintain the affected public rights-of-way or property. Temporary
restoration is at the permittee's sole expense and the permittee shall promptly
undertake and complete the required permanent restoration when the weather or
other conditions no longer prevent permanent restoration. Any corresponding
modification to the construction schedule will be subject to approval by the
city.
      (3)   If the permittee fails to restore rights-of-way or property to good
order and condition, the city shall give the permittee written notice and
provide the permittee a reasonable period of time, generally not exceeding 30
days, to restore the public rights-of-way or other city-owned property. If the
permittee fails thereafter to restore the public rights-of-way or other city-
owned property to good order and condition, the city may cause the restoration
to be made at the expense of the permittee, and the permittee shall reimburse
the city for such costs, including all labor and material costs and a
reasonable administrative overhead fee.
      (4)   A permittee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagging attendants, lights, flares and other measures as
required for the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent
injury or damage to any person, vehicle or property by reason of the work in or
affecting the public rights-of-way or other city-owned property.
   (M)   Performance and completion bond. Unless waived by the city in writing,
before construction is commenced within the public rights-of-way, the permittee
shall provide a performance bond or other form of surety acceptable to the city
in an amount equal to at least 100% of the estimated cost of the work approved
in the permit.
      (1)   The surety shall remain in force until 60 days after substantial
completion of the work, as determined in writing by the city, including
restoration of public rights-of-way and other property affected by the
construction.
      (2)   The surety shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the city:
         (a)   Timely completion of construction;
         (b)   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
         (c)   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the city;
         (d)   Restoration of the public rights-of-way and other property
affected by the construction; and
         (e)   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands and liens
for labor, material and services provided in connection with the work.
   (N)   Location of new facilities. All new facilities must be placed
underground within the public right-of-way whenever any existing facilities are
located underground within the same public right-of- way, unless otherwise
provided in a separate agreement with the city.
   (O)   Interference with the public rights-of-way. No user may locate or
maintain its facilities so as to unreasonably interfere with the use of the
public rights-of-way by the city, by the general public or by other persons
authorized to use or be present in or upon the public rights-of-way. All use of
public rights-of-way shall be consistent with city codes, ordinances and
regulations and applicable state and federal law.
   (P)   Relocation or removal of facilities. Except in the case of an
emergency as provided in § 96.22(E), within 120 days following written notice
from the city a user shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently (as
specified by the city), remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its facilities within the public rights-of-way whenever the city shall have
determined that the removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for:
      (1)   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any city
or other public improvement in or upon the public rights-of-way, except where
such construction, maintenance or installation is necessitated by a third party
project, in which case such third party shall bear the removal, relocation,
change and alteration costs;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (1) above, relocation of facilities
underground whenever any new or existing facilities are located or relocated
underground within a public right-of-way of the city, and the user currently
occupies the same public right-of-way, in which case the user shall relocate
its facilities underground concurrently with the other affected utilities to
minimize disruption of the public right-of-way, absent any extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city and consistent with
applicable state and federal law, or unless otherwise provided in a separate
agreement with the city;
      (3)   The operations of the city pursuant to its police power or other
governmental entity in or upon the public rights-of-way; or
      (4)   The public safety, welfare and health, but in no event to
accommodate a third party project unless expressly agreed to by the user being
asked to remove, relocate, change or alter.
   (Q)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 60 days following written
notice from the city, any user that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-way
of the city shall, at its own expense, remove the facilities or appurtenances
from the public rights-of-way of the city. A system or facility is unauthorized
and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   One year after the expiration or termination of the user's
franchise.
      (2)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public rights-of-way. A
facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated, out of service,
or not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a period of one year or
longer. A facility will not be considered abandoned if it is temporarily out of
service during performance of repairs or if the facility is being replaced. If
the city suspects a facility is abandoned, it shall contact the facility owner
before taking any action to remove the facility.
      (3)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
appropriate prior authority at the time of installation.
      (4)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a
location not permitted by the grantee's permit.
   (R)   Coordination of construction activities. All users with facilities in
the public rights-of-way should make a good faith effort to cooperate with
other users and the city to coordinate construction activities that disturb the
public right-of-way so as to minimize public inconvenience, disruption or
damages.
(Ord. 435, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall be found guilty of a violation of §§
96.01 through
96.05 shall be deemed guilty and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $1,000 for each violation.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
   (C)   The City Administrator or designee is authorized to remove any
encroachment for which there is no valid permit. Any object removed may be
either returned to the owner or held to be used as evidence in the prosecution
of any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 395, passed 7-28-2008)
CHAPTER 97: ARTIFACTS AND HISTORICAL MATERIALS
Section
   
97.01   Permit required
   
97.02   Issuance of permit
   
97.03   Inadvertent excavation
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is hereby declared that except in the case of Indian graves and protected
objects as defined in O.R.S. 97.740-97.760, no person shall excavate and remove
from land owned by the city, leased by the city, or which is a public way of
the city any materials of archaeological, historical, prehistorical or
anthropological nature without first obtaining a permit from the City Recorder
for so doing. Excavation or alteration of Indian graves and protected objects
is the jurisdiction of the state and administered under the provisions of
O.R.S. 97.740-97.760.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 97.02 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Recorder is hereby authorized to issue such a permit for the
excavation and removal of the artifacts mentioned herein to the Museum
Commission of the city, or to any other recognized scientific or educational
institution whose major purpose is the promotion of the knowledge of
archaeology or anthropology. No fee shall be charged for the issuance of such
permit; however, all items and artifacts shall be the property of the city.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 97.03 INADVERTENT EXCAVATION.
   Any person who inadvertently excavates any such artifacts or items of
historical significance shall deliver the same to the City Recorder immediately
upon the inadvertent location of same; and if such person fails to so notify
the City Recorder and make delivery of items to the City Recorder at the City
Office within 12 hours after the excavation, such person shall be subject to
the fine set forth in §
97.99.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The removal of any such items or artifacts accomplished without a
permit shall subject the person making such removal to a fine of not to exceed
$100 for each day of violation. Where the offense is a continuing offense, such
fine may not exceed $1,000. Any such items or artifacts removed without permit
shall be the property of the city.
   (B)   The removal of any single item prescribed by this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense; and should any portion of this chapter be
declared invalid, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected by such
declaration.
(Ord. 407, passed 7-26-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR BUSINESSES
      
111.   TIMBER
      
112.   TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
114.   SOCIAL GAMING
      
115.   STREET VENDORS
      
116.   MARIJUANA FACILITIES
      
117.   PSILOCYBIN PRODUCT MANUFACTURERS AND SERVICE CENTERS
      
118.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: TEMPORARY OUTDOOR BUSINESSES
Section
   
110.01   Purpose and scope
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Regulations
   
110.04   Inspections
   
110.05   Appeal
   
110.06   Removal of structures
   
110.07   Hold harmless and indemnification
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter provides reasonable and necessary regulations for the
nature and conduct of temporary outdoor commercial activities in order to:
      (1)   Protect the public health and safety;
      (2)   Maintain the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
streets, sidewalks and areas open to the public;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the peaceful enjoyment of the areas near
places where the transient vending activity or special event is occurring; and
      (4)   Preserve, protect and enhance the economic, scenic, historic and
aesthetic values and objectives of the city.
   (B)   The regulations of this code are not intended to permit any violation
of the provisions of any other law or regulation.
   (C)   These regulations shall not apply to garage sales, yard sales, rummage
sales or swap meets conducted on private property, provided that the sale is
not conducted over a period in excess of four consecutive days or more often
than three times per calendar year.
   (D)   These regulations shall not apply to sales conducted by municipal,
government, religious, charitable, educational or other similar organizations,
provided that the sale is conducted on premises owned or leased by the
applicant for the regular conduct of its business or affairs.
   (E)   These regulations shall not apply to temporary or seasonal uses within
permanent structures, except for those activities within permanent structures
subject to regulation as a special event.
   (F)   Exemption of a use from the provisions of this chapter shall not
exempt the use from other applicable provisions of this code.
   (G)   These regulations do not preclude any government agency from adopting
or enforcing additional use and operation standards for temporary uses on
public property.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANCE. Includes a dance which is open to the public, or for which admission
is charged directly or indirectly.
   PERSON. Includes the singular and plural and any individual, firm,
corporation, association, club, co-partnership or society or any other
organization.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any activity which is likely to attract at any one time an
assembly of persons, conducted for a specified period at one or more locations
within the city under the auspices of and subject to the supervision and
direction of a single person, including, but not limited to, festivals, fairs,
shows, sales, sidewalk sales, exhibitions, auctions, city or regional
celebrations, athletic events and public dances.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR BUSINESS. Any activity involving the sale or offering for
sale of any good or service at a location outside a building without the
creation of any permanent structure.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person who offers food, beverages, produce, merchandise, a
service or other thing of value for sale within the city on a temporary or
seasonal basis. This definition includes permanent merchants conducting
temporary outdoor business activities outside the building housing the primary
business.
      (2)   The following classes of transient merchants are hereby
established:
         (a)   CLASS 1. A transient merchant requiring direct connection to
city-operated utilities for the preparation or storage of that which is being
offered for sale. UTILITIES includes water, storm sewer or sanitary sewer.
CLASS 1 TRANSIENT MERCHANT may operate a temporary outdoor business for a
period not to exceed 180 aggregate days in any 365-day period.
         (b)   CLASS 2. A transient merchant not requiring direct connection to
city-operated utilities for the preparation or storage of that which is being
offered for sale. A permit to a CLASS 2 TRANSIENT MERCHANT may operate a
temporary outdoor business for a period not to exceed aggregate 90 days in any
365-day period.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 110.03 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all temporary outdoor businesses.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or County Sheriff shall have discretion to set
general policy for security for special events and to determine the specific
security requirements for an individual special event.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall have discretion to set general policy for fire
safety inspections and to require a fire safety inspection for any individual
transient merchant or special event, and to charge a fee to be set by Council
resolution.
   (C)   The Building Official shall have discretion to require a structural
inspection for any temporary structure, and to charge a fee to be set by
Council resolution.
   (D)   No person shall be deemed to be exempt from the application of this
chapter by reason of that person having conducted business within the city
prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Transient merchants must comply with all applicable state and local
laws, including, but not limited to, regulations and standards imposed or
enforced by the County Sanitarian and Building Official and the municipal code.
   (F)   All provisions of the Development Code relative to signage must be
followed.
   (G)   All waste shall be disposed of in compliance with all city, county and
state standards, and may not be dropped, spilled or poured into storm sewers or
onto the ground. Adequate trash receptacles must be provided and must be
emptied appropriately.
   (H)   No use will be permitted:
      (1)   Within the required landscape or setback area of the property;
      (2)   Which blocks vision at street intersections; which blocks a
crosswalk or otherwise impedes the flow of pedestrian traffic, including a 60-
inch clear walkway required by the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42
U.S.C. 12101 et seq., on either private or public property;
      (3)   Which blocks entrances or exits from buildings;
      (4)   Which blocks a driveway or otherwise impedes the flow of vehicular
traffic;
      (5)   Within ten feet of any disabled parking space or access ramp;
      (6)   Within 50 feet of any entrance or driveway to a health care
facility with an emergency or urgent care facility, school or police or fire
station;
      (7)   Within any service drive of a parking lot; or
      (8)   In a location which conflicts with any fire or safety code
regulations.
   (I)   No temporary outdoor business may emit noise, smoke, steam or light
that disrupts the operation of any nearby business, which disrupts the normal
livability of any nearby dwelling, or which disrupts the ability of a
reasonable person to utilize and enjoy a public place.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 110.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The conditions applicable to a temporary outdoor business include the
right of the city or the County Sanitarian to inspect the transient merchant’s
business premises to ensure compliance with appropriate structural, mechanical,
fire, health and/or safety regulations or concerns.
   (B)   If the transient merchant fails, within a reasonable time, to remedy
any noncomplying practice or defective condition identified as a result of any
inspection, the temporary outdoor business may be closed by the city.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 110.05 APPEAL.
   Any person whose temporary outdoor business has been closed may appeal the
decision to the City Council; provided, however, that no business shall be
conducted during the pendency of the appeal. The fee for an appeal shall be set
by Council resolution.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 110.06 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES.
   Any structures, carts, vending units, tents, tables or other appurtenances
used by the transient merchant shall be removed from the property promptly upon
expiration time limits of operation or business activity or special event,
whichever comes earlier.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 110.07 HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any such persons shall indemnify and hold the city and its officers, agents
and employees harmless from and against all claims for injury, loss or damage
arising out of or in any way related to the operation of transient merchant’s
business.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter is a Class A infraction and
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 and not more than $500. Each
day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a separate offense,
for which a separate penalty may be imposed. Upon any violation, the City
Administrator, or a designee of the City Administrator, may order the transient
merchant’s activity to cease, and upon receipt of written notice, the activity
shall immediately cease.
(Ord. 378, passed 7-11-2005)
CHAPTER 111: TIMBER
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   Permit fee
   
111.05   Permit process
   
111.06   Notice of permit application
   
111.07   Permit conditions
   
111.08   Failure to comply with permit conditions
   
111.09   Appeals
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a set of rules governing the
transportation of timber, commercially harvested within the urban growth
boundary of the city.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL TIMBER HARVEST. Any timber harvesting that comes under the
authority of the Oregon Forest Practices Act, being O.R.S. 527.610 to 527.785,
as defined therein.
   OREGON FOREST PRACTICES ACT. Minimum standards for timber resources
protection set by the state for public and private lands in the state.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A person or entity seeking to transport timber commercially harvested within
the urban growth boundary of the city shall be required to obtain a permit from
the city.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.04 PERMIT FEE.
   A base fee set by resolution of the City Council to cover administrative
costs to process permits and to inspect as necessary for compliance with city
ordinances. A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
one year from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.05 PERMIT PROCESS.
   An applicant can obtain an application from the city. The completed
application, together with all applicable exhibits including a completed State
Department of Forestry permit, shall be submitted with the permit fee for
review by the City Administrator, 15 days prior to beginning the harvest and
transportation of timber.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.06 NOTICE OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The city shall give notice as follows:
   (A)   The notice shall be posted on the local television channel and posted
in two prominent locations within the city for ten days; and
   (B)   The notice shall give the name of the applicant, legal description and
general location of the property, the Department of Forestry permit number, the
amount of timber proposed to be transported and the dates on which the
harvesting and transportation will take place.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.07 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Permit conditions shall require conformance to the city ordinances related
to fire prevention, traffic congestion, dumping of hazardous materials, street
maintenance, parking, noise and other ordinances including those relating to
public nuisances.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.08 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Failure to comply with permit conditions will result in:
   (A)   A written statement issued by the City Administrator informing of an
unsatisfactory condition and specifying the corrective action to be taken
within a definite time limit; and
   (B)   If corrective action is not completed by the owner/operator/trucker
within a specified time to prevent or reverse the damage potentially caused by
an unsatisfactory condition, the transportation permit shall be revoked. The
city may then complete the corrective action and the costs shall be paid by the
permit holder along with all fines. All fines and costs must be paid before the
transportation permit will be reinstated.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998; Ord. 429, passed 10-28-2013) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any decision of the City Administrator may be appealed by the
applicant, to the City Council by filing a letter of intent to appeal to the
city, within 15 days of the City Administrator’s decision.
   (B)   All appeals shall be set for public hearing at a regular City Council
meeting within 30 days of the filing of the appeal. The City Council may either
affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or partnership found to be in violation of
this chapter can be subject to a fine not to exceed $500; each day a violation
is found to exist shall constitute a separate violation. This fine is in
addition to any fine and/or costs imposed for the violation of other specific
city ordinances.
(Ord. 331, passed 5-11-1998; Ord. 429, passed 10-28-2013)
CHAPTER 112: TRANSIENT  LODGING TAX
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Tax imposed
   
112.03   Collection of tax by tax collector
   
112.04   Short-term rental housing platform fees
   
112.05   Liability for tax
   
112.06   Exemptions
   
112.07   Registration of transient lodging provider
   
112.08   Remittances and returns
   
112.09   Penalties and interest
   
112.10   Deficiency determination
   
112.11   Redeterminations
   
112.12   Collections
   
112.13   Liens
   
112.14   Refunds
   
112.15   Administration
   
112.16   Appeals to City Council
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Short-term rental regulations, see
Ch. 118
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OCCUPANCY. The right to the use or possession of any space in transient
lodging for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes for less than 30 days.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
in transient lodging for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, limited liability
company, corporation, limited liability partnership, association, host, social
club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint stock company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration paid or payable by an occupant for the occupancy of
space in transient lodging valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property, or
other consideration. If a separate fee is charged for services, goods or
commodities and the fee is optional, that fee is not included in rent.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A house, duplex, multi-plex, apartment, condominium,
houseboat, trailer or other residential dwelling unit where a person rents a
guest bedroom or the entire residential dwelling unit for transient lodging
occupancy. Generally, a short-term rental is zoned residential or has a
building occupancy that only allows for residential use.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM. A business or other person that
facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging by connecting occupants with
transient lodging providers, either online or in any other manner. Short-term
rental hosting platforms are transient lodging intermediaries.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Finance Director, or its designee, which may
include the Oregon Department of Revenue. If the city utilizes the Oregon
Department of Revenue as its tax administrator, it will comply with O.R.S.
305.620 in that it will follow the rules adopted by the Department of Revenue
regarding the administration, collection, enforcement and distribution of
transient lodging taxes.
   TLT or TAX. The transient lodging tax.
   TRANSIENT LODGING or TRANSIENT LODGING FACILITIES means:
      (1)   Hotel, motel, and inn dwelling units that are used for temporary
overnight human occupancy;
      (2)   Spaces used for overnight parking of recreational vehicles or
placement of tents during periods of human occupancy; or
      (3)   Houses, cabins, condominiums, apartment units or other dwelling
units, or portions of any of these dwelling units that are used for temporary
human occupancy.
   TRANSIENT LODGING INTERMEDIARY. A person other than a transient lodging
provider that facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging and:
      (1)   Charges for occupancy of the transient lodging;
      (2)   Collects the consideration charged for occupancy of the transient
lodging; or
      (3)   Receives a fee or commission and requires the transient lodging
provider to use a specified third-party entity to collect the consideration
charged for occupancy of the transient lodging.
   TRANSIENT LODGING PROVIDER. A person that furnishes transient lodging.
   TRANSIENT LODGING TAX COLLECTOR. A transient lodging provider or transient
lodging intermediary.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   As of the effective date of this chapter, each occupant shall pay a
TLT in the amount of 7% of the rent. The occupant shall pay the TLT with the
rent to the transient lodging tax collector. TLT amounts shall be rounded down
to the nearest cent. The transient lodging tax collector shall maintain records
of all rent charged and TLT payments received. If rent is paid in installments,
a proportionate share of the TLT shall be paid by the occupant to the transient
lodging tax collector with each installment unless the occupant pays the entire
amount with the first payment.
   (B)   Bills, receipts or invoices provided to occupants shall list the TLT
separately and must accurately state the amount of tax. All amounts listed as
TLT on invoices, bills or receipts must be reported as TLT and, after
collection, must be turned over to the city, less the 5% administrative charge.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.03 COLLECTION OF TAX BY TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Every transient lodging tax collector shall collect the TLT at the
time rent is paid, unless an exemption applies. If payment is by credit card,
for purposes of this section, payment is made at the time credit card
information is provided to the transient lodging tax collector, not when the
transient lodging tax collector ultimately receives credit for the transaction.
While holding the payment in trust for the city, a transient lodging tax
collector may commingle the tax proceeds with the transient lodging tax
collector's funds, but the transient lodging tax collector is not the owner of
tax proceeds, except that, when a return is filed, the transient lodging tax
collector becomes the owner of the administrative fee authorized to be
retained. Transient lodging tax collectors may choose to file returns and remit
payment based on amounts accrued but not yet collected. The transient lodging
tax collector is liable for any TLT that should have been collected from the
occupant, except in cases of nonpayment of rent by the occupant.
   (B)   Upon request of the city, transient lodging tax collectors must
provide all physical addresses of transient lodging facilities within the city
limits and the related contact information, including the name and mailing
address, of the general manager, agent, owner, host or other responsible person
for the location.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.04 SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM FEES.
   A hosting platform for short-term rentals may collect a fee for booking
services in connection with short-term rentals only when those short-term
rentals are lawfully registered as operators with the city and possess a
certificate of authority at the time the short-term rental is occupied.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.05 LIABILITY FOR TAX.
   Transient lodging providers who receive any portion of the rent for
transient lodging and transient lodging intermediaries that provide booking
service are both transient lodging tax collectors and are jointly and severally
liable for the tax.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   No TLT shall be imposed upon:
   (A)   A dwelling unit in a hospital, health care facility, long-term care
facility or any other residential facility that is licensed, registered or
certified by the Oregon Department of Human Services or the Oregon Health
Authority;
   (B)   A dwelling unit in a facility providing treatment for drug or alcohol
abuse or providing mental health treatment;
   (C)   A dwelling unit, the consideration for which is funded through a
contract with a government agency and the purpose of which is to provide
emergency or temporary shelter;
   (D)   A dwelling unit at a nonprofit youth or church camp, nonprofit
conference center or other nonprofit facility; or
   (E)   A dwelling unit that is leased or otherwise occupied by the same
person for a consecutive period of 30 days or more during the year. The
requirements of this subsection are satisfied even if the physical dwelling
unit changes during the consecutive period, if:
      (1)   All dwelling units occupied are within the same facility; and
      (2)   The person paying consideration for the transient lodging is the
same person throughout the consecutive period.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.07 REGISTRATION OF TRANSIENT LODGING PROVIDER.
   (A)   Every person engaging or about to engage in business as a transient
lodging provider shall provide a completed registration form to the tax
administrator within 15 calendar days after commencing business. The
registration form shall require the transient lodging provider to provide the
name of the business, any separate business addresses, and other information as
the tax administrator may require to implement this chapter. Transient lodging
providers who own or operate transient lodging facilities in the city shall
provide the address of the lodging facility. The registration form shall be
signed by the transient lodging provider. The tax administrator shall, within
15 days after registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to
collect the TLT. The transient lodging provider's obligation to collect the TLT
is imposed once rent for transient lodging is paid, even if the registration
form has not been filed or if the certificate has not been issued. If the rent
transaction is facilitated online, the certificate of authority must be able to
be viewed by the occupant by clicking on a link to the certificate of authority
at a reasonable place during the payment transaction.
   (B)   Certificates shall be non-assignable and non-transferable and shall be
surrendered to the tax administrator when the business is sold or transferred
or when a transient lodging facility ceases to operate at the location
specified in the registration form. Each certificate issued to a transient
lodging provider for a specific lodging facility shall be prominently displayed
at the lodging facility and include:
      (1)   The name of the transient lodging provider;
      (2)   The address of the transient lodging facility;
      (3)   The date the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The certificate number as assigned by the tax administrator.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.08 REMITTANCES AND RETURNS.
   (A)   Transient lodging tax collectors must submit a completed tax return
form to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the month following
the end of each calendar quarter, reporting the amount of tax due during the
quarter and accompanied by remittance of all tax collected, less a 5%
administration fee. The return shall be filed in such form as the tax
administrator may prescribe. The tax administrator, if they deem it necessary
in order to ensure payment or facilitate collection by the city of the amount
of taxes in any individual case, may require returns and payment of the amount
of taxes on other than monthly periods.
   (B)   The transient lodging tax collector is entitled to the administration
fee. If a transient lodging facility has multiple owners, they are not entitled
to retain additional fees.
   (C)   Remittances are delinquent if not made by the last day of the month in
which they are due.
   (D)   Returns shall show the gross rents collected, taxable rents, the total
amount of TLT collected and the amount of the administrative fee retained by
the transient lodging tax collector. Returns shall also show the exempt and
excluded rents and the basis for exemptions and exclusions.
   (E)   The person required to file the return shall deliver the return,
together with payment of the amount of the tax due, to the tax administrator,
to the appropriate office, either by personal delivery, by mail, or by
electronic tax return filed through a reporting and payment portal furnished by
the tax administrator, or its designee. If the return is mailed, the postmark
shall be considered the date of delivery.
   (F)   The tax administrator may extend the time for making any return or
remittance of the tax by up to 30 days. No further extension shall be granted,
except by the City Council. Any transient lodging tax collector to whom an
extension is granted shall pay interest at the rate of 0.5% per month on the
amount of the remittance due without proration for a fraction of a month. If a
return is not filed, and the remittance and interest due is not paid by the end
of the extension granted, then the interest shall become a part of the tax for
computation of penalties.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.09 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same rate
established under O.R.S. 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month, from
the time the return to the tax administrator was originally required to be
filed to the time of payment.
   (B)   If a transient lodging tax collector fails to file a return or pay the
tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed in the same manner and amount
provided under O.R.S. 314.400.
   (C)   Every penalty imposed, and any interest that accrues, becomes a part
of the financial obligation required to be paid and remitted to the tax
administrator.
   (D)   Taxes, interest, and penalties paid to the tax administrator under
this section shall be distributed to the city's General Fund and Tourism Fund.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.10 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Deficiency determination. The tax administrator may review tax returns
and adjust the amount due based on the information in the return, on
information obtained during a review or audit of records, or on the basis of
other evidence. In the event of a deficiency, the tax administrator shall
provide notice of the deficiency to the transient lodging tax collector, who
shall remit deficiencies within ten business days of the deficiency notice.
Notice may be by personal delivery or certified or registered mail.
      (1)   In reviewing and adjusting tax returns, the tax administrator shall
offset any amount received in excess of the remittances due against any
shortages in remittances.
      (2)   Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade the TLT, notice of
deficiency determinations shall be issued within three years of the period for
which the deficiency determination is made.
      (3)   The time to remit deficient payment amounts under this section
shall be extended if the local tax trustee timely requests a redetermination.
   (B)   Fraud; refusal to collect; evasion. If any transient lodging tax
collector fails to collect, report or remit the tax as required, submits a
fraudulent return, or otherwise violates or attempts to violate this chapter,
the tax administrator shall estimate the tax due, and calculate the amount
owing from the transient lodging tax collector for tax remittance, interest and
penalties and provide notice to the transient lodging tax collector of the
assessment. The determination and notice shall be made and mailed within three
years of the discovery by the tax administrator of the violation. The
determination is due and payable upon receipt of notice and shall become final
ten business days after the date notice was delivered if no petition for
redetermination is filed.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.11 REDETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Any person affected by a deficiency determination may file a petition
for redetermination with the tax administrator within ten business days of
service of notice of the tax deficiency. A determination becomes final if a
petition for redetermination is not timely filed.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the allowable
period, the tax administrator shall reconsider the determination and grant an
oral hearing if requested. The petitioner shall be allowed at least 20 business
days to prepare for the hearing.
   (C)   After considering the petition and all available information, the tax
administrator shall issue a redetermination decision and mail the decision to
the petitioner. During the redetermination process, the tax administrator may
agree to a compromise of the amount due if there is a good faith dispute over
the amount owing.
   (D)   The decision of the tax administrator on redetermination becomes final
and payment is due ten business days after the decision is mailed unless the
petitioner files an appeal to the City Council within that time. The appeal
shall be filed with the tax administrator. The City Council's decision shall be
final when reduced to writing and mailed to the petitioner and all amounts due
must be paid within ten business days of mailing of the City Council decision.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.12 COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The city may bring legal action to collect on any amounts owed to the
city under this chapter within three years after remittance is due to the city
or within three years after any determination becomes final.
   (B)   The city is entitled to collect reasonable attorneys' fee in any legal
action brought to collect on the amount owed to the city under this chapter.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.13 LIENS.
   The city may record a lien in the city's lien docket against any real
property owned by a transient lodging provider who receives any portion of the
rent from a transient lodging facility located within the city as to any
delinquent remittances by the transient lodging provider.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.14 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds by city to transient lodging tax collector. If the transient
lodging tax collector remits more tax, penalty or interest than is due, the
transient lodging tax collector may file a claim in writing stating the facts
relating to the claim, within three years from the date of remittance. If the
claim is approved by the tax administrator, the excess amount shall be either
refunded or credited on any amount due from the transient lodging tax
collector.
   (B)   Refunds by city to occupant. A transient lodging tax collector may
file a claim for refund by filing a claim in writing within three years of
payment providing the facts relating to the claim for refund. If the tax
administrator determines that the tax was collected and remitted to the city
and the occupant was not required to pay the tax or overpaid, the city shall
issue a refund to the occupant.
   (C)   Refunds by transient lodging tax collector to occupant. If an occupant
has paid tax to a transient lodging tax collector but stays a total of 30 or
more consecutive days in the same transient lodging facility, the transient
lodging tax collector shall refund to the occupant any tax collected for any
portion of the continuous stay. The transient lodging tax collector shall
account for the collection and refund to the tax administrator. If the
transient lodging tax collector has remitted the tax prior to the refund or
credit to the occupant, the transient lodging tax collector shall be entitled
to a corresponding refund or offset if the claim for refund is filed within
three years from the date of collection.
   (D)   Burden of proof. The person claiming the refund shall have the burden
of proving the facts that establish the basis for the refund.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Use of TLT funds. Thirty percent of the revenue from the tax rate of
7% shall be used for tourism promotion and tourism-related facilities. Seventy
percent of the revenue of the 7% shall be used for city services.
   (B)   Records required from local tax trustee. Every local tax trustee shall
keep records of each transaction involving rent and/or collection of TLT. All
records shall be retained for at least three years and six months.
   (C)   Examination of records; investigations. The tax administrator or agent
may examine all records of a local tax trustee relating to receipt of rent and
TLT and remittance of tax during normal business hours and may obtain copies of
the records to audit returns.
   (D)   Authority of tax administrator. The tax administrator shall have the
power to enforce this chapter, conduct audits, and to adopt rules, regulations
and forms consistent with this chapter. Rules and regulations of general
application shall be mailed to all registered transient lodging providers. The
tax administrator may also issue written interpretations on request of a
transient lodging tax collector. As to the transient lodging tax collector to
whom the interpretation is issued, the city will act consistently with the
interpretation until it is withdrawn, and the city shall provide 30 days'
written notice of withdrawal of an interpretation.
   (E)   Confidential character of information obtained; disclosure unlawful.
The city shall maintain the confidentiality of information provided by
transient lodging tax collector. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed
to prevent:
      (1)   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by,
another city official, employee or agent for collection of taxes for the
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this chapter or
collecting city business license fees.
      (2)   Disclosure of information to the transient lodging tax collector
and the transient lodging tax collector's agents.
      (3)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any persons to whom
certificates of authority have been issued.
      (4)   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the city.
      (5)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 192.
      (6)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 297.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.16 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator may appeal to
the City Council by filing a written appeal with the tax administrator within
ten business days of the serving or mailing of the decision being appealed. The
City Manager shall schedule the hearing on a City Council agenda and provide
the appellant notice of the hearing at least ten business days before the
hearing. The City Council may agree to a compromise of the amount of tax
remittance if there is a good faith dispute over the amount owing. Any person
may appeal the issuance of a rule or regulation issued by the tax administrator
to the City Council by filing a written appeal within ten business days of the
mailing of the notice of the regulation.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a Class A civil infraction punishable by a
fine of not more than $500 per day plus costs and expenses, including those
expenses authorized by §
112.12. Each day that a violation remains uncured is a separate infraction.
(Ord. 454, passed 9-27-2021)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
113.01   Application for cable television service
   
113.02   Installation fee and monthly service fees
   
113.03   Ownership
   
113.04   Voluntary termination of service
   
113.05   Involuntary termination of service
   
113.06   Reconnection fee
   
113.07   Prohibition of unauthorized connections or modifications
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 APPLICATION FOR CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE.
   All persons desiring to subscribe to cable television service shall obtain,
complete and file an application form with the municipal office, requesting
said service.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
§ 113.02 INSTALLATION FEE AND MONTHLY SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Generally. The City Council recognizes that changes in program,
service, wages, rates, equipment expenses and other factors exist which may
require changes in the fees charged for connections to the cable TV system or
other monthly service rates. For this reason, changes to this section, relation
to connection fees or monthly service fees may be made by resolution of the
City Council, which changes shall be effective from and after the date the
resolution is enacted. Connection fees shall be paid in advance. All monthly
service fees shall be considered as delinquent if not paid by the tenth of the
month.
   (B)   Installation fees.
      (1)   Basic service. An initial installation fee shall be paid by all
subscribers for the basic cable television service. This fee provides for one
television outlet. Said charges shall include not more than 200 lineal feet of
service cable. In the event more than 200 feet of service cable is required,
the subscriber will be charged the city’s cost of overhead. Additional outlets
may be installed by the city at the cost of materials, labor and overhead for
each single television outlet, but not exceeding an additional 50 feet of cable
fee each such outlet. For installations requiring more than 50 feet of cable,
an additional charge as provided above will be made. Basic cable service shall
be required prior to subscription to any premium channel.
      (2)   Commercial subscribers. Commercial subscribers shall consist of
motels, hotels, recreation vehicle parks and other commercial lodging
facilities for the purpose of this chapter. Commercial subscribers shall not
include residences or apartment buildings.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
§ 113.03 OWNERSHIP.
   The service cable shall be city property and once installed shall remain
city property. No fee shall be refundable, nor shall said fees be transferable
from the place of original installation.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
§ 113.04 VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   Service may be terminated by subscriber at any time by the notification to
the city and said service shall be terminated no later than the end of the
current service month.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
§ 113.05 INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   Any subscriber who has not paid for service by the nineteenth of the month
may have his or her cable television service terminated.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
§ 113.06 RECONNECTION FEE.
   A reconnection fee will be charged each subscriber each time terminated
service is reinstated. Said reconnection fee and all the service fees shall be
paid in advance.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
§ 113.07 PROHIBITION OF UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS OR MODIFICATIONS.
   No person shall make any connection, modification, alteration or in any
manner tap in, or attempt to tap into the city cable television system, except
as authorized by the city. No person shall use any receptacles, wire,
amplifier, resister or other materials unless such materials are approved by
the city for use on said cable TV system.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Criminal. Any person found guilty of violating §
113.07 shall be subject to a fine of $100 and ten days in jail for each such
violation.
   (C)   Civil. Any person who violates §
113.07 shall be liable to the city for any damage, direct or indirect, which
occurs as a result of, or incidental of, said violation of §
113.07.
(Ord. 265, passed 6-28-1989)
CHAPTER 114: SOCIAL GAMING
Section
   
114.01   Social game permitted
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 SOCIAL GAME PERMITTED.
   Social games as defined in O.R.S. 167.117 are hereby prohibited in the city,
except in private homes and by charitable organizations under the terms and
conditions as set forth in O.R.S. 167.117 and 167.121 as they now read or may
hereinafter be amended.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-24-1975) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 189, passed 2-24-1975)
CHAPTER 115: STREET VENDORS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Registration
   
115.03   Method of operation
   
115.04   Signage
   
115.05   Enforcement and abatement
   
115.06   Exemption
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET VENDOR. A person or persons, including a business entity, who sells
items, including but not limited to crafts, artwork, trinkets, souvenirs,
produce or animal products from temporary shelters, stands, vehicles or carts
on a seasonal basis. Any person or entity that allows the sale of items on
property they own or control by a person who has not registered with the city
under § 115.02 shall also be considered a street vendor for all purposes
related to this chapter.
   TEMPORARY FOOD VENDOR. A person or persons, including a business entity, who
operates an intermittent temporary restaurant, seasonal temporary restaurant,
single event temporary restaurant, or mobile unit as defined below:
      INTERMITTENT TEMPORARY RESTAURANT. An establishment that operates
temporarily at a specific location in connection with multiple public
gatherings, entertainment events, food product promotions or other events, at
least two of which are arranged for by different oversight organizations; and
where food is prepared or served for consumption by the public.
      MOBILE UNIT. Any vehicle on which food is prepared, processed or
converted or which is used in selling and dispensing food to the ultimate
consumer.
      SEASONAL TEMPORARY RESTAURANT. An establishment that operates at a
specific location in connection with multiple public gatherings, entertainment
events, food product promotions  or other events that are arranged for by the
same oversight organization; and where food is prepared or served for
consumption by the public.
      SINGLE EVENT TEMPORARY RESTAURANT. An establishment that operates in
connection with a single public gathering, entertainment event, food product
promotion or other event; and where food is prepared or served for consumption
by the public.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate as a street vendor without first registering
with the City of Cascade Locks, except an enrolled member of a federally
recognized Indian tribe whose items for sale consist solely of fish harvested
pursuant to treaty reserved rights.
   (B)   Registration shall be on forms provided by the city. All street
vendors shall be required to provide the following information:
      (1)   Official picture identification in the form of a valid state issued
driver's license, state issued identification card, or valid passport;
      (2)   Current contact information, including a valid mailing address and
phone number;
      (3)   A current Oregon State food handler's certification if handling
food;
      (4)   The location of vending;
      (5)   If vending on private property, the street vendor must provide a
copy of the affected property owner's written permission for placement of a
temporary shelter, stand, vehicle or cart; and
      (6)   Any other information deemed necessary to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 624 requires all food service vendors
to be licensed in advance of operation. In accordance with O.R.S. 624.020, all
food service vendors shall display their license in clear view of the public
during any food service, The following restaurant activities shall operate as
set forth below:
      (1)   Intermittent Temporary Restaurant (O.R.S. 624.082): A person may
not operate an intermittent temporary restaurant without first procuring a
license to do so from the Oregon Health Authority. The intermittent temporary
restaurant license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises of
the licensee.
      (2)   Seasonal Temporary Restaurant (O.R.S. 624.084): A person may not
operate a seasonal temporary restaurant without first procuring a license to do
so from the Oregon Health Authority. The seasonal temporary restaurant license
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises of the licensee.
      (3)   Single Event Temporary Restaurant (O.R.S. 624.086): A person may
not operate a single-event temporary restaurant without first procuring a
license to do so from the Oregon Health Authority. The single-event temporary
restaurant license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises of
the licensee.
      (4)   Mobile Unit (O.R.S. 624.320): A person may not operate mobile unit
without first procuring a license to do so from the Oregon Health Authority.
The operator shall post the license in a conspicuous place on the mobile unit;
or, if the operator has multiple mobile units, the operator shall affix a card,
emblem or other device clearly showing the name and address of the licensee to
each mobile unit.
         (a)   Mobile unit carts/trucks/units may move around Oregon. Out-of-
state licenses are not transferable to Oregon. Mobile units from out-of-state
do not have license reciprocity in Oregon. Out-of-state mobile units shall
contact the Hood River County Environmental Health Office and get an Oregon
license before operating.
         (b)   Mobile food carts/trucks/units may be licensed in other Oregon
Counties, but they are still required to contact the Hood River County
Environmental Health Office prior to arrival at any location to discuss their
operations.
   (D)   All temporary food vendors cooking with propane shall obtain a
Portable Propane Cooking Devices Permit from the Cascade Locks Fire and EMS
Office.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 METHOD OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No street vendor shall:
      (1)   Occupy an area within ten feet of a crosswalk, alleyway or building
doorway;
      (2)   Obstruct or impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Leave a location without first picking up, removing and disposing
of all trash and refuse remaining within a 25-foot radius of their vending
area. Each vendor shall be responsible for maintaining a 25-foot radius around
their vending area clean of any trash or debris;
      (4)   Make any loud noise for the purpose of advertising or attracting
attention to their wares;
      (5)   Leave their shelter, stand, vehicle or cart unattended;
      (6)   Sell from any location other than the registered location;
      (7)   Solicit or conduct business with any persons in motor vehicles
located within any traffic lane on a public street;
      (8)   Unreasonably interfere with or obstruct the free flow of pedestrian
traffic or access to businesses; or
      (9)   Violate any federal, state or local ordinance, statute or
regulation.
   (B)   If vending on private property, the street vendor must prominently
display a copy of the affected property owner's written permission for
placement of the street vendor's temporary shelter, stand, vehicle or cart at
the vending location.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   No street vendor shall:
      (1)   Place signs anywhere other than the street vendor's place of
business;
      (2)   Place more than one sign on each of four sides of the street
vendor's temporary shelter, stand, vehicle or cart.
      (3)   Place a sign greater than ten square feet on any side of the street
vendor's temporary shelter, stand, vehicle or cart.
      (4)   Place signs on vehicles other than the vendor's registered sales
structure or within the road right-of-way;
      (5)   Place signs within ten feet of a crosswalk, alleyway, or fire
hydrant; or
      (6)   Place signs in any way that obstructs or impedes vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   One hand held sign is allowed for each approaching travel direction
but in no instance shall more than two hand held signs be allowed.
   (C)   Hand held signs may only be used on the sidewalk; they shall not be
used in the vehicular right of way; including travel lanes, bike lanes, or
parking areas.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator for the city or their designee is authorized to
enforce this chapter by issuing a uniform citation or other citation form
complying with O.R.S. Chapter 153.
   (B)   In addition to any remedies available under this chapter, any
violation of this chapter is deemed a nuisance. The abatement of such a
nuisance is in addition to any other penalty or remedy. Such nuisance may be
abated as provided in
Ch. 95 or in any other manner authorized by law.
   (C)   Any temporary shelter, stand, vehicle, cart or sign in violation of
this chapater may be removed by the City Administrator or designee 24 hours
after written notice is delivered to the vendor in person or five days after
written notice is mailed to the address registered with the city.
      (1)   Any item(s) removed may be stored by the city up to 30 days or
until the owner redeems the property by paying a storage and removal charge as
established by the City Administrator. The city may dispose of items left
longer than 30 days from the date of notice provided in this section.
      (2)   Written notice shall include at least the following:
         (a)   A statement that the item(s) are in violation of this chapter;
         (b)   The approximate location of the violation;
         (c)   Date the item(s) will be removed;
         (d)   Statement that the removal and storage costs are the
responsibility of the owner or vendor;
         (e)   Statement that the item(s) shall be disposed of after 30 days of
storage;
         (f)   Cost of removal and storage;
         (g)   Location of storage or person to contact concerning storage;
         (h)   Statement that the owner or vendor may remove the item(s) at
their own expense prior to the date of removal; and
         (i)   Statement that further violation will result in immediate
removal without prior notification.
   (D)   All temporary food vendors in violation of this chapter shall be
reported to Oregon Health Authority representative at Hood River County
Environmental Health Office.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 115.06 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter does not apply to non-public events. Non-public events include
sporting events where only the participants, support staff, and invited guests
are served food.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall be found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter commits a civil infraction punishable by up to $500
per incident, plus court costs and other costs associated with enforcement.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of this chapter constitutes a separate offense,
for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
(Ord. 450, passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 116: MARIJUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
116.01   General provisions
   
116.02   Standards of operation
   
116.03   Location restrictions
   
116.04   Tax on the sale of marijuana items by marijuana retailers
§ 116.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   State law authorizes the operation of medical marijuana facilities
and provides those facilities with immunity from state criminal prosecution.
      (2)   State law may authorize the operation of recreational marijuana
facilities in the future.
      (3)   Although the state has passed legislation authorizing medical
marijuana facilities and providing criminal immunity under state law, and may
do the same in the future with respect to recreational marijuana facilities,
the operation of those facilities remains illegal under federal law.
      (4)   The City Council has home rule authority to decide whether, and
under what conditions, certain commercial conduct should be regulated with the
city and subject to the general and police powers of the city, except when
local action has been clearly and unambiguously preempted by state statute.
      (5)   Whether and where certain business should operate within the local
jurisdiction are local government decisions, and local governments may enforce
those decisions through the general and police powers of the jurisdiction.
      (6)   The City Council wants to regulate the operation in the city of
medical marijuana facilities now, and recreational marijuana facilities in the
future when authorized by state law, in ways that protect and benefit the
public health, safety, and welfare of existing and future residents and
businesses in the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MARIJUANA. All part of the plant Cannabis family Moraceae, whether
growing or not, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its resin. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fire produced
from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature
stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      MARIJUANA FACILITY. Any facility or operation designed, intended or used
for the purpose of delivering, dispensing or transferring marijuana or medical
marijuana.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Refers to marijuana dried, produced, processed, kept,
stored, delivered, transferred, dispensed or otherwise provided for the
exclusive benefit of and use by a person to mitigate symptoms or effects of
person’s debilitating medical condition as defined in ORS 475.302, including
any amendments thereto.
      OPERATOR. A person who owns, operates or otherwise has legal
responsibility for a marijuana facility. All operators must meet the
qualifications established by the Oregon Health Authority, if any, and be
approved by the Oregon Health Authority to operate a registry, if applicable.
      PRINCIPAL. Members, partners, or corporate officers, and all stockholders
holding more than 10% of the voting stock for any operator who is not a natural
person.
      REGISTRATION IDENTIFICATION CARD. A document issued by the Oregon Health
Authority that identifies a person authorized to engage in the medical use of
marijuana, and the person’s designated caregiver, if any.
      SCHOOL. A public or private elementary, secondary, or career school as
those terms are defined by the Oregon Health Authority.
(Ord. 439, passed 7-27-2015)
§ 116.02 STANDARDS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Registration and compliance with Oregon Health Authority rules.
Marijuana facilities must comply with the registration requirements of the laws
of the state and must be in good standing with the Oregon Health Authority. All
facilities must comply with all applicable laws and regulations administered by
the Oregon Health Authority for facilities.
   (B)   Compliance with other laws. Facilities must comply with all applicable
laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the building and fire
codes.
   (C)   Public view into facility. All doorways, windows and other openings
shall be located, covered or screened in such a manner to prevent a view into
the interior from any exterior public or semipublic area.
   (D)   Odors. Facilities must use an air filtration and ventilation system
which, to the greatest extent feasible, confines all objectionable odors
associated with the facility to the premises. The standard for judging
objectionable odors is that of an average, reasonable person with ordinary
sensibilities after taking into account the character of the neighborhood in
which the odor is made and detected.
   (E)   Lighting. Facilities must maintain adequate outdoor lighting over each
exterior door.
   (F)   On-site use. Marijuana and tobacco products may not be smoked,
ingested, consumed, or otherwise used on facility’s premises.
   (G)   On-site manufacturing. Manufacturing or production of any extracts,
oils, resins, or similar derivatives of marijuana is prohibited at a facility.
Use of open flames or gases in the preparation of any products is prohibited at
a facility.
   (H)   Storage and disposal. Outdoor storage of merchandise, raw materials or
other materials associated with marijuana use is prohibited. Facilities must
securely dispose of marijuana remnants or by-products; marijuana remnants or
byproducts may not be disposed of in exterior refuse containers.
   (I)   Home occupation. A facility may not be operated as a home occupation.
(Ord. 439, passed 7-27-2015)
§ 116.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Distance from schools and other premises. In addition to complying
with the location requirements established by the Oregon Health Authority that
the proposed facility not locate within 1,000 feet of a school, a facility
shall not locate within 1,000 feet of any premises where minors are likely to
congregate. For purposes of this section, premises where minors are likely to
congregate include, but are not limited to, public or private parks,
playgrounds, recreational facilities, pre-schools, and day cares.
   (B)   Distances. For purposes of this section, all distances shall be
measured in a straight line from the closest edge of each property line.
   (C)   Closure. In addition to the requirement established by the Oregon
Health Authority that a facility be closed if a school is found to be within
1,000 feet of a facility, a facility shall also be required to close if
premises where minors are likely to congregate are found to be within 1,000
feet of a facility.
(Ord. 439, passed 7-27-2015)
§ 116.04 TAX ON THE SALE OF MARIJUANA ITEMS BY MARIJUANA RETAILERS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      MARIJUANA ITEM. The same meaning given that term in O.R.S. 475C.009(25).
      MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person who sells marijuana items to a consumer in
this state.
      RETAIL SALE PRICE. The price paid for a marijuana item, excluding tax, to
a marijuana retailer by or on behalf of a consumer of the marijuana item.
   (B)   Tax imposed. As described in O.R.S. 475C.453, the city hereby imposes
a tax of 3% on the retail sale price of marijuana items by marijuana retailers
in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   Collection. The tax shall be collected at the point of sale of a
marijuana item by a marijuana retailer at the time at which the retail sale
occurs, and remitted by each marijuana retailer that engages in the retail sale
of marijuana items.
   (D)   Interest and penalty.
      (1)   Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same
rate established under O.R.S. 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month,
from the time the return to the Oregon Department of Revenue was originally
required to be filed by the marijuana retailer to the time of payment.
      (2)   If a marijuana retailer fails to file a return with the Oregon
Department of Revenue or pay the tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed
upon the marijuana retailer in the same manner and amount provided under O.R.S.
314.400.
      (3)   Every penalty imposed, and any interest that accrues, becomes a
part of the financial obligation required to be paid by the marijuana retailer
and remitted to the Oregon Department of Revenue.
      (4)   Taxes, interest, and penalties transferred to the city by the
Oregon Department of Revenue will be distributed to the city’s General Fund, to
be dedicated to public safety.
      (5)   If at any time a marijuana retailer fails to remit any amount owed
in taxes, interest or penalties, the Oregon Department of Revenue is authorized
to enforce collection on behalf of the city of the owed amount, in accordance
with O.R.S. 475C.670 to 475C.734, any agreement between the Oregon Department
of Revenue and the city under O.R.S. 305.620, and any applicable administrative
rules adopted by the Oregon Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 455, passed 5-23-2022)
CHAPTER 117: PSILOCYBIN PRODUCT MANUFACTURERS AND SERVICE CENTERS
Section
   
117.01   Prohibition.
§ 117.01 PROHIBITION.
   The establishment of psilocybin product manufacturers licensed under O.R.S.
475A.290 and psilocybin service centers licensed under O.R.S. 475A.305 is
prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 456, passed 8-8-22)
CHAPTER 118: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Regulations
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the singular includes the plural and the masculine
includes the feminine and neuter. The word “may” is discretionary, but the word
“shall” is mandatory. The following words and phrases shall have the meanings
given them in this section.
   HOSTED HOMESHARE. The transient rental of a portion of a dwelling while the
homeowner is present for less than 30 days.
   VACATION HOME RENTAL. The transient rental of an entire dwelling unit for
less than 30 days.
(Ord. 460, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hosted homeshares and vacation home rentals are permitted in the
following City of Cascade
Locks residential zones:
      (1)   Rural Residential (RR);
      (2)   Low Density Residential (LDR);
      (3)   Medium Density Residential (MDR);
      (4)   High Density Residential (HDR); and
      (5)   Any Planned Development (PD).
   (B)   Hosted homeshares and vacation home rentals are not permitted in the
following City of Cascade Locks zones:
      (1)   Commercial (C);
      (2)   Commercial/Residential (CR);
      (3)   Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Residential (MHR);
      (4)   Downtown Zone (D); and
      (5)   Resort Commercial (RC).
   (C)   A transient lodging license issued under §
112.07 is required (for application, see Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 460
and incorporated herein by reference).
      (1)   Persons operating a hosted homeshare or vacation home rental shall
obtain a transient room tax license. Each owner shall maintain a registration
book which identifies the occupants of the rental unit during the duration of
stay and home address of the occupants. Such records shall be available to the
city (or the city's designee) during an audit of the hosted homeshare or
vacation home rental in order to verify or validate the transient room tax
collected and paid to the city.
      (2)   The payment of transient room taxes to both the state and the city
are the responsibility of the property owner. Payments are due on the fifteenth
of the month following the previous quarter, April 15, July 15, October 15 and
January 15.
      (3)   Proof of residential homeowner insurance that specifically includes
short-term rental coverage for the subject property is required.
   (D)   Use restrictions - all zones.
      (1)   To prevent a change in the nature of the immediate neighborhood, no
hosted homeshare or vacation home rental may be located within 250 feet of any
other hosted homeshare or vacation home rental. For purposes of this section,
all distances shall be measured in lineal feet from the nearest property line
to the nearest property line of the properties subject to this chapter.
      (2)   The room(s) for transient rental shall not include rooms within a
recreational vehicle, travel trailer, or tent or other temporary shelter.
      (3)   Renters are not permitted to operate short-term rentals.
      (4)   Management companies and other business real estate entities are
not permitted to own and operate short-term rental.
      (5)   The maximum occupancy for the dwelling shall be two persons per
bedroom plus two additional persons. For example, a two-bedroom dwelling would
have a maximum occupancy of six persons.
      (6)   One hard-surfaced off-street parking space that meets Community
Development Code and Public Works Design standards shall be provided for every
two bedrooms. In calculating the number of spaces required, the total shall be
rounded up. Required parking may be permitted on another lot within 250 feet of
the subject property with a shared parking agreement and proof of legal parking
access.
      (7)   The number of days the unit is rented per quarter shall be reported
on the TRT quarterly report.
      (8)   An emergency contact number shall be provided to the vacation
rental occupier, to each of the surrounding property owners/residents and to
the city. The emergency contact shall respond to the hosted homeshare or
vacation home rental property within 30 minutes to address any emergency or
complaint issue. Private home owners are permitted to utilize the services of a
management company to assist in the operation of the hosted homeshare or
vacation home rental.
      (9)   Only 5% of the total residential units in the city may be permitted
as transient rentals at any one time. The number of residential water accounts
will provide the base for the calculation. For example, if the city has 500
residential water accounts, only 25 (5% of 500) transient room tax licenses
will be issued for residential transient rental uses.
      (10)   No more than three transient room tax licenses may be issued to
any one owner.
      (11)   Listing an unpermitted unit online is a violation of this chapter.
      (12)   Each rental unit property must have a valid street address.
      (13)   Smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, and fire extinguishers
in the rental space are required.
      (14)   No short-term rental may engage in commercial-style food
preparation or operation.
   (E)   A failure to comply is subject to a fine of up to $500 per day for
each day the violation exists per §
112.99. Any hosted homeshare or vacation home rental including those advertised
through internet rental accounts or services are subject to this chapter.
Internet rental accounts or services include, but are not limited to, providers
such as “AirBnB,” “Vacasa,” and “Craigslist.” Copies of online advertisements
for properties located inside the city limits of Cascade Locks are presumed to
constitute the operation of a homeshare or vacation home rental property.
   (F)   License and application fees. Short-term rental program fees will be
set forth by Council via resolution. The city may periodically update the STR
program fees.
   (G)   Short-term rental inspection.
      (1)   All STRs must have an inspection completed by a licensed home
inspection company that covers the items in the city's STR checklist. The
inspection is arranged and paid for by the STR applicant. The inspection report
must be included with the STR application (for inspection checklist, see
Exhibit B attached to Ordinance 460 and incorporated herein by reference).
      (2)   STR owners must complete an annual safety checklist, including upon
initial application, in which the owner attests that the safety criteria
outlined in the checklist are satisfied. The completed checklist is provided to
the city each year (for safety checklist, see Exhibit C attached to Ordinance
460 and incorporated herein by reference).
(Ord. 460, passed 11-25-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   MINORS
      
132.   DRUG-FREE ZONE
      
133.   NUISANCE PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Definitions
   
130.002   Soliciting
   
130.003   Attempt to commit offense
Offenses Relating to Persons
   
130.015   Assault
   
130.016   Menacing
   
130.017   Recklessly endangering another person
   
130.018   Disorderly conduct
   
130.019   Public intoxication and drinking
   
130.020   Loitering
   
130.021   Harassment
   
130.022   Abuse of venerated objects
   
130.023   Soliciting drinks
   
130.024   Accosting for deviate purposes
   
130.025   Public indecency
   
130.026   Prohibited touching
Offenses Relating to Property
   
130.040   Theft
   
130.041   Trespass
   
130.042   Violating privacy of another
   
130.043   Mischief
   
130.044   Aggravated mischief
Animal Offenses
   
130.055   Cruelty to animals
   
130.056   Allowing animals and fowl to run at large
Weapons
   
130.070   Concealed weapons
   
130.071   Discharge of weapons
Governmental Administration
   
130.100   Unsworn falsification
   
130.101   Obstructing governmental administration
   
130.102   Tampering with public records
   
130.103   Impersonation
   
130.104   False reports
   
130.105   Resisting or refusing to aid officer
   
130.106   Escape
   
130.107   Police and fire communication
 
   
130.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in Oregon Criminal Code of 1971, being O.R.S. Chs.
161 through 169, as now or hereafter constituted, are adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. Except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning, the general definitions and the definitions appearing in the
definitional and other sections of particular articles of the Code shall be
applicable throughout this chapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 130.002 SOLICITING.
   No person shall solicit employ or engage another, or confederate with
another to violate a provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   A person who shall attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in this
chapter or any other ordinance or the city, but who for any reason is prevented
from consummating such act, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
§ 130.015 ASSAULT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly cause physical injury to
another; and/or
   (B)   With criminal negligence cause physical injury to another by means of
a deadly weapon.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.016 MENACING.
   No person shall, by word or conduct, intentionally attempt to place another
person in fear of imminent serious physical injury.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.017 RECKLESSLY ENDANGERING ANOTHER PERSON.
   No person shall recklessly engage in conduct which creates a substantial
risk of serious physical injury to another person.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.018 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall, with intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or
alarm or by recklessly creation a risk thereof:
   (A)   Engage in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening behavior;
   (B)   Make unreasonable noise;
   (C)   Use abusive or obscene language, or make an obscene gesture, in a
public place;
   (D)   Disturb any lawful assembly of persons without lawful authority;
   (E)   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic in or on a public way or
public place;
   (F)   Congregate with other persons in a public place and refuse to comply
with a lawful order of the police to disperse;
   (G)   Initiate or circulate a report, knowing it to be false, concerning an
alleged or impending fire, explosion, crime and catastrophe or other emergency;
and/or
   (H)   Create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.019 PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING.
   No person shall create, while in a state of intoxication, any disturbance of
the public in any public or private business or place.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.020 LOITERING.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Loiter in or near a school building or grounds, not having any reason
or relationship involving custody of or responsibility for a student, or upon
inquiry by a peace officer or school official, not having a specific legitimate
reason for being there; and/or
   (B)   Loiter in or about a public place frequented by children, including
swimming pools, school bus stops, playgrounds and parks and public premises
adjacent thereto, for the purpose of annoying, bothering or molesting children.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.021 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall, with intent to harass, annoy or alarm another person:
   (A)   Subject another to offensive physical contact;
   (B)   Publicly insult another by abusive or obscene words or gestures in a
manner likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response;
   (C)   Communicate with a person, anonymously or otherwise, by telephone,
mail or other form of written communication, in a manner likely to cause
annoyance or alarm; and/or
   (D)   Engage in a course of conduct that alarms or seriously annoys another
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.022 ABUSE OF VENERATED OBJECTS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally abuse a public monument or structure, a
place of worship or burial, or the national or state flag.
   (B)   As used in this section, ABUSE means to deface, damage, defile or
otherwise physically mistreat in a manner likely to outrage public
sensibilities.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.023 SOLICITING DRINKS.
   No person shall frequent, loiter or be employed in a tavern, bar, night club
or cocktail lounge for the purpose of soliciting another person to purchase
drinks. No proprietor of such an establishment shall allow the presence in the
establishment of a person who violates the provisions of this section. This
section does not apply to persons regularly employed in such establishments.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 ACCOSTING FOR DEVIATE PURPOSES.
   No person shall, while in a public place, invite or request another person
to engage in deviate sexual intercourse.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.025 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person shall, while in or in view of a public place, perform:
   (A)   An act of sexual intercourse;
   (B)   An act of deviate sexual intercourse;
   (C)   An act of exposing his or her genitals with the intent of arousing the
sexual desire of himself or herself or other person; and/or
   (D)   An act of urination or defecation, except in toilets provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.026 PROHIBITED TOUCHING.
   (A)   No person shall pay a fee or receive a fee, directly or indirectly,
for touching or offering to touch the sexual parts of another for the purpose
of arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of either party.
   (B)   No person who manages or controls any place of business shall cause a
permit any agent, employee or other person under his or her control or
supervision to participate in conduct prohibited in division (A) above.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
§ 130.040 THEFT.
   Article 14 of Oregon Criminal Code of 1971, being O.R.S. Chs. 161 through
169, as now or hereafter constituted, is adopted by reference and made a part
of this subchapter, save and except penalty provisions.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.041 TRESPASS.
   No person shall enter or remain unlawfully in or upon premises.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.042 VIOLATING PRIVACY OF ANOTHER.
   No person, other than a peace officer performing a lawful duty, shall enter
upon land or into a building used in whole or in part as a dwelling not his or
her own without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession
thereof and while so trespassing, look through or attempt to look through a
window, door or transom of the dwelling or that part of the building used as a
dwelling with the intent to violate the privacy of other persons.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.043 MISCHIEF.
   No person shall with intent to cause substantial inconvenience to the owner
or to another person, and having no right to do so nor reasonable ground to
believe he or she as such right, tamper or interfere with property of another.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.044 AGGRAVATED MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall violate §
130.043 and as a result thereof damage property in an amount exceeding $100.
   (B)   No person shall, while having no right to do so nor reasonable ground
to believe that he or she as such right, intentionally damage property of
another or recklessly damage property of another in an amount exceeding $100.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
ANIMAL OFFENSES
§ 130.055 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, no person shall intentionally
or recklessly:
      (1)   Subject any animal under human custody or control to cruel
mistreatment;
      (2)   Subject any animal under his or her custody or control to cruel
neglect; or
      (3)   Kill, without legal privilege, any animal under the custody or
control of another.
   (B)   As used in this section, ANIMAL includes birds.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 ALLOWING ANIMALS AND FOWL TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No owner or person in charge of any livestock, animal or fowl, wild or
domesticated, shall permit such animal or fowl to run at large in the city.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 194, passed 3-14-1977) Penalty, see §
130.999
WEAPONS
§ 130.070 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person other than a peace officer or person licensed pursuant to O.R.S.
166.291, as now or hereafter amended, shall carry concealed on or about his or
her person or carry concealed within any vehicle which is under his or her
control or direction any pistol, revolver, other firearm, knife other than an
ordinary pocket knife with a blade less than three and one-half inches long,
dirk, dagger, stiletto, metal knuckles or weapon the use of which could inflict
injury upon a person or property.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.071 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   Except at firing ranges approved by the City Council, no person other than a
peace officer shall fire or discharge a gun, including spring or air-actuated
pellet guns, air guns, BB guns or other weapons which propel a projectile by
use of gunpowder or other explosives, jet or rocket propulsion.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 280, passed 9-24-1990; Ord. 286, passed 4-8-
1991) Penalty, see §
130.999
GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 130.100 UNSWORN FALSIFICATION.
   No person shall knowing make any false statement to a public servant in
connection with an application for any benefit.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.101 OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   No persons shall intentionally obstruct, impair or hinder the
administration of law or other governmental function by means of intimidation,
force or physical interference or obstacle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the obstruction of unlawful
governmental action or interference with the making of an arrest.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.102 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC RECORDS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, knowingly destroy, mutilate,
conceal, remove, make a false entry in or falsely alter any public record.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.103 IMPERSONATION.
   No person shall, with intent to obtain a benefit or to injure or defraud
another, falsely impersonate a public servant and do an act in such assumed
character.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.104 FALSE REPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly initiate a false alarm or report which is
transmitted to a Fire Department or law enforcement agency or other
organization that deals with emergencies involving danger to life or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly make or file with the Police Department or
with the City Attorney or a police officer engaged in his or her official
duties a false, misleading or unfounded statement or report concerning the
violation or alleged violation of a city ordinance or the commission or alleged
commission of a crime.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.105 RESISTING OR REFUSING TO AID OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist any peace officer acting in the performance of
his or her duties; or when requested to do so, refuse to assist any such
officer in the discharge of his or her duties; or by any means whatsoever,
hinder, delay or obstruct any such officer acting in the performance of his or
her duties.
   (B)   As used in this section, RESIST refers to the ordinary meaning of the
term.
   (C)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace
officer lacked legal authority to make an arrest, provided he or she was acting
under color of his or her official authority.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.106 ESCAPE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Knowingly escape or attempt to escape from official detention; or
      (2)   Knowingly cause, aid, assist, abet or facilitate an escape from
official detention.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESCAPE. An unlawful departure.
      OFFICIAL DETENTION.
         (a)   Arrest by a peace officer;
         (b)   Detention in a vehicle or facility for the transportation or
custody of persons under arrest, charge or conviction of an offense;
         (c)   Detention for extradition or deportation; and/or
         (d)   Other detention because the person detained is charged with or
convicted of an offense.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.107 POLICE AND FIRE COMMUNICATION.
   No person shall operate any generator or electromagnetic wave or cause a
disturbance of such magnitude as to interfere with the proper functioning of
any Police or Fire Department radio communication system.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $750, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or by both.
   (B)   Each violation of a separate provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense, and each day that a violation of this chapter is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The maximum penalty for a violation of this chapter shall not exceed
the maximum penalty prescribed for violation of a substantially similar offense
proscribed by the Oregon Criminal Code of 1971, being O.R.S. Chs. 161 through
169.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Child neglect
   
131.02   Children in confined vehicles
   
131.03   Endangering welfare of minor
   
131.04   Places of amusement
   
131.05   Misrepresentation of age of minor
Curfew
   
131.20   Curfew
   
131.21   Parental duty
   
131.22   Arresting officer’s duties
Protective Headgear
   
131.35   O.R.S. Chapter 814 adopted
   
131.36   Authorization to enforce
   
131.37   Protective headgear for other vehicles
Parental Responsibility
   
131.50   Failure to supervise a child
   
131.51   Exclusion
   
131.52   Affirmative defenses
   
131.53   Restitution
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 CHILD NEGLECT.
   No person having custody or control of a child under ten years of age shall,
with criminal negligence, leave the child unattended in or at any place for
such period of time as may be likely to endanger the health or welfare of such
child.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CHILDREN IN CONFINED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who has under his or her control or guidance a child under
eight years of age, shall lock or confine, or leave the child unattended, or
permit the child to be locked or confined, or left unattended in a vehicle for
a period of time longer than 15 consecutive minutes.
   (B)   It shall be lawful and the duty of a police officer or other peace
officer, finding a child confined in violation of the terms of this section, to
enter the vehicle and remove the child, using such force as is reasonably
necessary to effect an entrance to the vehicle where the child may be confined,
in order to remove the child.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 ENDANGERING WELFARE OF MINOR.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Knowingly sell, or cause to be sold, tobacco in any form to a
person under 18 years of age; and/or
      (2)   Employ a person under 18 years of age in or about a cardroom,
poolroom or billiard parlor.
   (B)   No person shall solicit, aid, abet or cause a person under 18 years of
age to:
      (1)   Violate a law of the United States, or a state, or to violate a
city or county ordinance; and/or
      (2)   Run away or conceal himself or herself from a person or institution
having lawful custody of the minor.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall enter, visit or loiter in or
about a public cardroom, poolroom or billiard parlor.
   (B)   No person operating or assisting in the operation of a public
cardroom, poolroom, billiard parlor or public place of amusement shall permit a
person under 18 years of age to engage therein in any game of cards, pool,
billiards, dice, darts, pinball games or like character or games of chance,
either for amusement or otherwise.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the playing of billiards, pool, dice,
darts, pinball or other such games for amusement only in a recreational
facility.
   (D)   As used in this section, a RECREATIONAL FACILITY means an area,
enclosure or room in which facilities are offered to the public to play
billiards, pool, dice, darts, pinball or other such games for amusement only,
and which is clean, adequately lighted and ventilated; in which no alcoholic
liquor is sold or consumed; and access to which does not require passing
through a room where alcoholic liquor is sold or consumed.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE OF MINOR.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Being less than a certain, specified age, knowingly represent himself
or herself to be of any age other than his or her true age with the intent of
securing a right, benefit or privilege which by law is denied to persons under
that certain, specified age; and/or
   (B)   Being unmarried, knowingly represent that he or she is married, with
the intent of securing a right, benefit or privilege which by law is denied to
unmarried persons.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
CURFEW
§ 131.20 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to be on
or remain upon any street, alley, park or other public place within the city
limits between the hours specified in this section, except as otherwise
exempted under division (B) of this section.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the specified hours shall be
as follows:
 
Age                        Days                Specified Hours
                           Sunday through and  10:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.
Children under 15 years of including Thursday  the following day
age                        Friday and Saturday 11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.
                                               the following day
                           Sunday through and  11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.
Children 15 years through  including Thursday  the following day
17 years of age            Friday and Saturday 12:00 midnight until 5:00
                                               a.m. the following day
 
      (2)   The burden of proof of an exempt status for the child as provided
in division (A) above shall be upon the child or person claiming said exemption
therein.
(Ord. 140, passed 5-16-1966) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.21 PARENTAL DUTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person having the custody
or control of a child under the age of 18 years to allow said child, with whom
they hold such relationship, to violate any part of this subchapter and the
violation of said subchapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 140, passed 5-16-1966) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.22 ARRESTING OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   The arresting officer or officers shall be authorized, in addition to any
other remedies provided by ordinance or statue for violation of this
subchapter, to act as follows:
   (A)   If the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the parents of
the minor are failing to exercise proper control, care or custody of the minor,
take the person directly before the court having juvenile jurisdiction in the
county where the arrest was made;
   (B)   Take or send the minor to his or her residence and notify the parents,
guardian or person having the care and custody of the minor concerned in the
violation;
   (C)   May retain the juvenile at the City Hall under restraint and if
necessary place him or her in the cell block required therefor, and notify the
parents or those having the control of the child, and hold such child until the
parents have come to take the child to his or her abode; and/or
   (D)   Any combination on the above.
(Ord. 140, passed 5-16-1966)
PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR
§ 131.35 O.R.S. CHAPTER 814 ADOPTED.
   The City Council hereby adopts by this reference O.R.S. Chapter 814, §§
814.485 through 814.489, inclusive.
(Ord. 383, passed 1-23-2006)
§ 131.36 AUTHORIZATION TO ENFORCE.
   The City Council hereby authorizes the City Administrator or his or her
designee, including the Ordinance Enforcement Officer to cite persons violating
this subchapter into the Municipal Court for the city. Citations may be
directed to parents, legal guardians or persons with legal responsibility for
the safety and welfare of the child, as provided in O.R.S. Chapter 814.
(Ord. 383, passed 1-23-2006)
§ 131.37 PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR FOR OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person under the age of 16 shall operate or ride any motorized or non-
motorized vehicle, which is not licensed to travel on public highways or
roadways, without wearing protective headgear. Additional vehicles requiring
protective headgear shall include, but not be limited to, snowmobiles, ATVs,
motorized scooters and off-road motorcycles.
(Ord. 383, passed 1-23-2006) Penalty, see §
131.99
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
§ 131.50 FAILURE TO SUPERVISE A CHILD.
   A person commits the offense of failing to supervise a child if the person
is the parent, lawful guardian or other person lawfully charged with the care
or custody of a child under 18 years of age and the child:
   (A)   Commits an act that brings the child within the jurisdiction of the
Juvenile Court under state law;
   (B)   Violates a curfew law of a county, city or any other political
subdivision; or
   (C)   Fails to attend school as required under state law.
(Ord. 339, passed 6-28-1999) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.51 EXCLUSION.
   Nothing in this subchapter applies to a child-caring agency as defined in
state law or to foster parents.
(Ord. 339, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 131.52 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a child under §
131.50(A), it is an affirmative defense that the person:
      (1)   Is the victim of the act that brings the child within the
jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court; or
      (2)   Reported the act to the appropriate authorities.
   (B)   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a child under §
131.50, it is an affirmative defense that the person took reasonable steps to
control the conduct of the child at the time the person is alleged to have
failed to supervise the child.
(Ord. 339, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 131.53 RESTITUTION.
   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a child under §
131.50(A):
   (A)   The Court may order the person to pay restitution under state law to a
victim for pecuniary damages arising from the act of the child that brings the
child within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court; and
   (B)   The amount of restitution ordered under this section may not exceed
$2,500.
(Ord. 339, passed 6-28-1999)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A violation of §§
131.01 through
131.05 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $750, or by imprisonment not
to exceed six months, or by both.
      (2)   Each violation of a separate provision of §§
131.01 through
131.05 shall constitute a separate offense, and each day that a violation of §§
131.01 through
131.05 is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   The maximum penalty for a violation of §§
131.01 through
131.05 shall not exceed the maximum penalty prescribed for violation of a
substantially similar offense proscribed by the Oregon Criminal Code of 1971,
being O.R.S. Chs. 161 through 169.
   (B)   Curfew. Any person violating any provisions of §§
131.20 through
131.22 shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5 and not more than $50
or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term of not less than two days and
not more than 30 days or both.
   (C)   Protective headgear. Any person found guilty of a violation of any of
the provisions of §§
131.35 through
131.37 may be punished by a fine not exceeding $77 for each offense. Each
individual sighting of a violation by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall
be considered a separate offense.
   (D)   Parental responsibility.
      (1)   If a person pleads guilty or is found guilty of failing to
supervise a child under §§
131.50 through
131.53 and if the person has not previously been convicted of failing to
supervise a child, the Court:
         (a)   Shall warn the person of the penalty for future convictions of
failing to supervise a child and may suspend imposition of sentence; and
         (b)   May order the person to pay restitution under §§
131.50 through
131.53.
      (2)   If a person pleads guilty or is found guilty of failing to
supervise a child under §§
131.50 through
131.53 and if the person has only one prior conviction for failing to supervise
a child:
         (a)   The Court, with the consent of the person, may suspend
imposition of sentence and order the person to complete a parent effectiveness
program approved by the Court. Upon the person’s completion of the parent
effectiveness program to the satisfaction of the Court, the Court may discharge
the person. If the person fails to complete the parent effectiveness program to
the satisfaction of the Court, the Court may impose a sentence authorized by
this §§
131.50 through
131.53; and
         (b)   There may be only one suspension of sentence under this division
(D)(2) with respect to a person.
      (3)   The Municipal Court has jurisdiction over a first offense of
failing to supervise a child under §§
131.50 through
131.53.
      (4)   Failing to supervise a child is a violation punishable by a fine of
not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 140, passed 5-16-1966; Ord. 187, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 339, passed 6-28-
1999; Ord. 383, passed 1-23-2006)
CHAPTER 132: DRUG-FREE ZONE
Section
   
132.01   Drug-free zones
   
132.02   Designation of drug-free zones
   
132.03   Civil exclusion
   
132.04   Issuance of exclusion notices
   
132.05   Procedure
   
132.06   Appeal
   
132.07   Variances
   
132.08   Listing of drug-free zones
§ 132.01 DRUG-FREE ZONES.
   Drug-free zones are those areas of the city as designated by the City
Council under this chapter, which are areas where the number of arrests where
there was probable cause to believe a person has committed any of the offenses
enumerated in §
132.03 is significantly higher than other similarly sized geographic areas of
the city, or other geographic areas where there is probable cause to believe
that said offenses are occurring.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.02 DESIGNATION OF DRUG-FREE ZONES.
   If the City Council designates an area meeting the criteria of §
132.01 to be a drug-free zone, the City Council shall do so by ordinance. The
designation shall be valid for a period of three years. The office of the City
Law Enforcement Officer is directed to report to the City Council at least 90
days before the end of the three-year period, as to whether there is a need to
reauthorize or re-configure the drug-free zones enumerated in §
132.07.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.03 CIVIL EXCLUSION.
   (A)   A person is subject to exclusion for a period of 90 days from the
public streets, sidewalks and other public ways in one or more drug-free zones
designated by this chapter if that person has been arrested based upon probable
cause to believe that the person has committed any of the following offenses
within a drug-free zone, unless the offense was committed entirely within a
private residence:
      (1)   Attempt to unlawfully possess a controlled substance, in violation
of O.R.S. 161.405;
      (2)   Criminal solicitation to unlawfully possess a controlled substance,
in violation of O.R.S. 161.435;
      (3)   Criminal conspiracy to unlawfully possess a controlled substance,
in violation of O.R.S. 161.450;
      (4)   Unlawful possession of a controlled substance, in violation of
O.R.S. Ch. 475, other than possession of less than one ounce of marijuana under
O.R.S. Ch. 475;
      (5)   Criminal conspiracy to unlawfully deliver a controlled substance,
in violation of O.R.S. 161.450;
      (6)   Unlawful delivery of a controlled substance, in violation of O.R.S.
475.992;
      (7)   Attempt to unlawfully deliver an imitation controlled substance, in
violation of O.R.S. 161.405;
      (8)   Criminal conspiracy to unlawfully deliver an imitation controlled
substance, in violation of O.R.S. 161.450; or
      (9)   Unlawful delivery of an imitation controlled substance, in
violation of O.R.S. 475.912.
   (B)   A one year exclusion from one or more of the drug-free zones shall
take effect upon the date of conviction for any of the offenses enumerated in
division (A) above if that offense was committed within any drug-free zone.
   (C)   (1)   Except as allowed under §
132.06, a person excluded under authority of this section may not enter any
drug-free zone except to:
         (a)   Attend a meeting with an attorney;
         (b)   Attend a scheduled initial interview with a social service
provider;
         (c)   Comply with court or corrections ordered obligations;
         (d)   Contact criminal justice personnel at a criminal justice
facility; or
         (e)   Travel through a drug-free zone on the I-84 freeway within the
boundaries of any drug- free zone.
      (2)   While in a drug-free zone, a person who is otherwise excluded may
travel only directly to and from the obligations enumerated in divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(4) above.
   (D)   If an excluded person is in a drug-free zone in violation of the
exclusion during the exclusion period, that person is subject to immediate
arrest for criminal trespass in the second degree, pursuant to O.R.S. 164.245.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.04 ISSUANCE OF EXCLUSION NOTICES.
   The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees are the persons in charge
of the public streets, sidewalks and public ways in the drug-free zones, for
purposes of issuing exclusion notices in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.05 PROCEDURE.
   If a person is arrested based upon probable cause to believe that the person
has committed any of the offenses enumerated in §
132.03(A) within a drug-free zone, the City Law Enforcement Officer and/or
designees may exclude that person from one or more drug-free zones, which are
so designated by the City Council. The notice shall specify the areas
designated as drug-free zones in §
132.07 from which that person is excluded and shall contain information
concerning the right to appeal the exclusion to the City Council.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.06 APPEAL.
   Any person to whom an exclusion notice is issued shall have a right to
appeal as follows.
   (A)   Appeals shall be made to the City Council. All hearings regarding such
appeals shall be conducted in accordance with City Council hearing procedures
for de novo hearings.
   (B)   Copies of documents in the city’s control, which are intended to be
used at the hearing, shall be made available, upon request, to the appellant.
   (C)   An appeal of a 90-day exclusion must be filed, in writing, by 5:00
p.m. of the fifth business day following issuance of the notice of exclusion.
   (D)   An appeal of a one-year conviction based exclusion must be filed, in
writing, by 5:00 p.m. of the fifth business day following the date of
conviction.
   (E)   An appeal of a denial of an application for a variance or revocation
of a variance must be filed, in writing, by 5:00 p.m. of the fifth business day
following the denial or revocation of the variance.
   (F)   A 90-day exclusion shall not take effect during the time that an
appeal of the 90-day exclusion is pending. If no appeal is taken, the initial
90-day exclusion shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. on the eighth calendar day
following the issuance of the notice of exclusion.
   (G)   A one year conviction based exclusion shall take effect at 12:01 a.m.
on the calendar day following the date of conviction and, notwithstanding an
appeal of the exclusion, shall remain in effect unless the City Council issues
a contrary decision.
   (H)   At the hearing on an appeal of a 90-day exclusion, the city shall have
the burden to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the exclusion is
based upon probable cause to believe that the appellant committed any of the
offenses enumerated in §
132.03(A) and that the conduct supporting the exclusion occurred within a drug-
free zone.
   (I)   At the hearing on an appeal of a one-year conviction based exclusion,
the city shall have the burden to show, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the appellant was convicted of any of the offenses enumerated in §
132.03(A) and that the conduct supporting the conviction occurred within a
drug-free zone.
   (J)   (1)   At the hearing on an appeal of a denial of an application for a
variance, the city shall have the burden to show, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the denial was in accordance with this section.
      (2)   At the hearing on an appeal of a revocation of a variance, the city
shall have the burden to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that any of
the conditions enumerated in this section supporting revocation existed at the
time of revocation.
      (3)   At the hearing on an appeal of a 90-day exclusion, the following
shall be prima facie evidence that the exclusion was based on probable cause to
believe that the appellant committed any of the offenses enumerated in §
132.03(A):
         (a)   A determination by a Court having jurisdiction over the offense
that forms the basis for the exclusion, that probable cause existed to arrest
the person to whom the initial 90-day exclusion notice was issued for violation
of any of the offenses enumerated in §
132.03(A); or
         (b)   An accusatory instrument charging the person to whom a 90-day
exclusion notice was issued, for violation of any of the offenses enumerated in
§
132.03(A).
      (4)   At the hearing on an appeal of a one year conviction based on
exclusion, a judgement of conviction for any of the offenses that formed the
basis for the exclusion, as enumerated in §
132.03(A) shall be conclusive evidence that the described conduct occurred.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally. Variances shall be granted, denied or revoked in accordance
with the following provisions: all variances shall be in writing, for a
specific period and only to accommodate a specific purpose, all of which shall
be stated on the variance. The purpose of the variance is to allow only travel
to and from locations within a drug-free zone according to the terms of the
variance. The variance must be carried on the person while in a drug-free zone
in order to be effective and must be presented to a police officer upon
request. In the event a person having a variance is found in a drug-free zone
in violation of the terms of the variance, that person is subject to immediate
arrest for criminal trespass in the second degree, pursuant to O.R.S. 164.245.
   (B)   General variance. The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees
may, for any reason, grant a variance from an exclusion at any time during an
exclusion period. A variance granted under this division (B) allows travel only
within the drug-free zone specified in the variance, and only according to the
terms specified in the variance.
   (C)   Residential variance.
      (1)   The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees shall grant a
residential variance from an exclusion to an excluded person to allow travel
within a drug-free zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if the
excluded person:
         (a)   Lived in a drug-free zone when excluded; and
         (b)   Continues to live at the same residence.
      (2)   A variance granted under this division (C) allows travel only
within the drug-free zone within which the residence is situated and only in
accordance with the terms of the variance.
   (D)   Essential needs variance.
      (1)   The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees may grant an
essential needs variance from an exclusion to an excluded person to allow
travel within a drug-free zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if
the excluded person:
         (a)   Possesses a residential variance;
         (b)   Must access a public or private place within a drug-free zone
that provides an essential need; and
         (c)   The essential need sought by the excluded person cannot
reasonably be accessed by the excluded person without violating the drug-free
zone exclusion.
      (2)   A variance granted under this division (D) allows travel only
within the drug-free zone in which the excluded person resides and only in
accordance with the terms of the variance.
   (E)   Employment variance.
      (1)   (a)   The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees may grant
an employment variance from an exclusion to an excluded person to allow travel
within a drug-free zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if the
excluded person:
            1.   Was an owner, principal, agent or employee of a place of
lawful employment located in a drug-free zone when excluded; and
            2.   Continues to be employed at the same place of employment.
         (b)   A variance granted under this division (E) allows travel only
within the drug-free zone in which the excluded person works and only in
accordance with the terms of the variance.
      (2)   (a)   The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees may grant
an employment variance from an exclusion to an excluded person to allow travel
within a drug-free zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if the
excluded person:
            1.   Is an owner, principal, agent or employee of a place of lawful
employment; and
            2.   Will be required to perform employment related services in a
drug-free zone.
         (b)   A variance granted under this division (E) allows travel only
within the drug-free zone in which the excluded person works and only in
accordance with the terms of the variance.
   (F)   Social services variance.
      (1)   The City Law Enforcement Officer and/or designees may grant a
social services variance to an excluded person to allow travel within a drug-
free zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if the excluded person:
         (a)   Is in need of social services in a drug-free zone;
         (b)   The social services are sought for reasons relating to the
health or well-being of the excluded person; and
         (c)   The social services agency has written rules and regulations
prohibiting the unlawful use and sale of controlled substances by its clients.
      (2)   A variance granted under this division (F) allows travel only
within the drug-free zone in which the social services agency is located and
only in accordance with the terms of the variance.
   (G)   Revocation of variances. Variances may be revoked in accordance with
the following provisions.
      (1)   Grounds for revocation:
         (a)   The applicant provided false information in order to obtain the
variance;
         (b)   There is probable cause to believe the person has committed any
of the offenses enumerated in §
132.03(A) in a drug-free zone subsequent to the issuance of the variance; or
         (c)   If the circumstances giving rise to the issuance of the variance
no longer support a continuation of the variance.
      (2)   Residential variance exception.
         (a)   A residential variance may only be revoked if the applicant
provided false residential information in order to obtain the variance; or
         (b)   If the circumstances giving rise to the issuance of the variance
no longer support a continuation of the issuance of the variance.
   (H)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ESSENTIAL NEEDS. Food, physical care and medical attention.
      TRAVEL. The movement on foot or within or upon a vehicle within a drug-
free zone from one point to another without delay other than to obey traffic-
control devices.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 132.08 LISTING OF DRUG-FREE ZONES.
   The following descriptions shall comprise the boundaries of the drug-free
zones listed, and the drug- free zones shall include the entire area within the
listed boundary.
   The entire City of Cascade Locks: Commencing at the Section corner common to
Sections 6 and 7, Township 2 North, Range 8 East of the Willamette Meridian,
and Sections 1 and 12 in Township 2 North, Range 7 East of the Willamette
Meridian, in the County of Hood River and the State of Oregon; thence North 548
feet, more or less, to a point on the Meander Line of the Columbia River;
thence North 60 15' East 1650 feet to the point of the beginning of this
description; thence North 71 East 759 feet; thence North 65 East 858 feet;
thence North 50 43" 3038.4 feet; thence North 61 East 1176.2 feet; thence North
63 15' East 1805 feet; thence East 2640 feet to the Northeast corner of Section
5 common with Sections 4 and 5, Township 2 North, Range 3 East, and Section 32
and 33, Township 8 North, Range 3 East of the Willamette Meridian; thence
South, along said section line to the Southeast corner of Section 5; thence
West, along the South line of Section 5 to a point on the Southerly right-of-
way line of the Columbia River Highway (Interstate 84); thence Westerly, along
said right-of-way line to a point where said right-of-way line intersects the
East line of Section 7; thence South 74 40' 12" West 685 feet; thence South 0
25' 43" West 857.33 feet; thence South 89 33' 46" West 657.33 feet; thence
South 0 30' 46" West 1305.87 feet; thence South 89 23' 27" West 2621.3 feet;
thence North 0 9' 00" East 3949 feet; thence South 1/4 mile to the SE corner of
the NW 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of Section 7, Township 2 North, Range 8 East of the
Willamette Meridian; thence West 3/4 mile to the SW corner of the North 1/2 of
the SW 1/4 of Section 12, Township 2 North, Range 7 East of the Willamette
Meridian; thence South 1/2 mile, thence west along the South line of the North
1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 13, Township 2 North, Range 7 East of the
Willamette Meridian, to where this line intersects the boundary line between
the States of Oregon and Washington, thence Northeasterly along the said
boundary line to the middle point of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, Township 2 North,
Range 8 East of the Willamette Meridian, thence South to a point on the Meander
line of the Columbia River, more or less to the point of the beginning.
(Ord. 354, passed 7-9-2001)
CHAPTER 133: NUISANCE PROPERTIES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Notice and manner of service
   
133.03   Abatement plan
   
133.04   Civil action; remedies
   
133.05   Burden of proof; defenses
   
133.06   Closure
 
   
133.98   Enforcement
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT PLAN (CNAP). A plan required to be submitted by a
"Person in Charge" in response to a notice authorized under this chapter that
includes actions to abate, correct, or eliminate the occurrence of chronic
nuisance activities on or around the property. A CNAP may include, but is not
limited to the following: actions to remedy building code, fire code, property
maintenance code, and nuisance code violations; eviction of problem tenants
responsible for causing chronic nuisance activities; or hiring security guards
to monitor the property. A CNAP shall include an implementation timeline.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Property on which:
      (1)   Three or more nuisance activities have occurred during any 30-day
period;
      (2)   Four or more nuisance activities have occurred during any 120-day
period;
      (3)   Six or more nuisance activities have occurred during any 365-day
period; or
      (4)   A court has issued a search warrant based upon probable cause that
possession, manufacture, or delivery of a controlled substance or related
offenses as defined in O.R.S. 167.203, O.R.S. 475.005 through O.R.S. 475.285,
and/or O.R.S. 475.752 through 475.980 has occurred within the previous 30 days,
and the execution of the search warrant has resulted in the discovery of such
controlled substances.
   CONTROL. The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern
conduct that occurs on property.
   NUISANCE ACTIVITIES. Any of the following activities, behaviors, or criminal
conduct that occurs on or within 200 feet of the property:
      (1)   Harassment as provided in O.R.S. 166.065 or §
130.021 of this code;
      (2)   Intimidation as provided in O.R.S. 166.155 through 166.165;
      (3)   Disorderly conduct as provided in O.R.S. 166.025 or §
130.018 of this code;
      (4)   Assault as provided in O.R.S. 163.160, O.R.S. 163.165, O.R.S.
163.175, O.R.S. 163.185 or §
130.015 of this code;
      (5)   Strangulation as provided in O.R.S. 163.187;
      (6)   Menacing as provided in O.R.S. 163.190 or §
130.016 of this code;
      (7)   Recklessly endangering another person as provided in O.R.S. 163.195
or §
130.017 of this code;
      (8)   Public or private indecency as provided in O.R.S. 163.465 and
O.R.S. 163.467 or §
130.025 of this code;
      (9)   Prostitution or related offenses as provided in O.R.S. 167.007
through O.R.S. 167.017;
      (10)   Alcoholic liquor violations as provided in the Oregon Liquor
Control Act;
      (11)   Theft as provided in O.R.S. 164.015 through 164.140 or §
130.040 of this code;
      (12)   Arson or related offenses as provided in O.R.S. 164.315 through
164.325;
      (13)   Possession, manufacture, or delivery of a controlled substance or
related offenses as provided in O.R.S. 167.203, O.R.S. 475.005 through 475.285,
and/or O.R.S. 475.752 through 475.980;
      (14)   Criminal mischief as provided in O.R.S. 164.345 through 164.365 or
§
130.043 of this code;
      (15)   Any attempt to commit (as defined by O.R.S. 161.405), or
conspiracy to commit (as defined by O.R.S. 161.455), any of the above offenses;
      (16)   Marijuana-related offenses as provided in the Control and
Regulation of Marijuana Act (O.R.S. 475B.010 through O.R.S. 475B.395), the
Oregon Medical Marijuana Act (O.R.S. 175B.400 through O.R.S. 465B.525);
      (17)   Hindering prosecution as provided in O.R.S. 162.325;
      (18)   Discharge of weapons as provided in §
130.071;
      (19)   Unnecessary noise as provided in §§
94.01 through
94.99;
      (20)   Nuisance activities as provided in §§
95.01 through
95.99;
      (21)   Animal violations as provided in §
90.03;
      (22)   Reckless burning as provided in O.R.S. 164.135;
      (23)   Maintaining a fire hazard or illegal occupancy as provided in §§
91.030 through
91.038;
      (24)   Failure to maintain garbage service as provided in §
50.03 of this code;
      (25)   Maintaining cross-connections to the city's water supply as
regulated in §§
52.01 through
52.99;
      (26)   Maintaining inoperable and discarded vehicles in violation of
Chapter 92, each separate vehicle being a separate violation;
      (27)   Failure to allow electrical meter accessibility, allowing unlawful
connections, or other unauthorized and prohibited activity as provided in
Chapter 53;
      (28)   Failure to maintain water/wastewater utility service while a
property is occupied; and
      (29)   Any other activity required by state or local rule, or failure to
perform such activity, which affects health, safety, or occupancy of a
property.
   PERMITS or MAINTAINS. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to
prevent, or expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   PERSON. Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership, or
corporation capable of owning, occupying, using, or managing property in the
city.
   PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH. Any person who, on the occasion of a nuisance
activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter, patronize or
visit, or waited to enter, patronize or visit a property or person present on a
property, including without limitation any officer, director, customer, agent,
employee, or any independent contractor of a property, person in charge, or
owner thereof.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person, in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to, an owner, occupant, tenant, or person
authorized to manage a property.
   PROPERTY. Any property, including land and that which is affixed, incidental
or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to, any business or
residential premises, room, house, parking area, loading area, landscaping,
building or structure, or any separate part, unit, or portion thereof, or any
business equipment, whether or not permanent. For property consisting of more
than one unit, property is limited to the unit or the portion of the property
on which any nuisance abatement has occurred or is occurring, but includes
areas of the property used in common by all units of property including,
without limitation, other structures erected on the property and areas used for
parking, loading, and landscaping.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.02 NOTICE AND MANNER OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When the City Administrator receives a report documenting that a
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the City Administrator or
designee shall notify the person in charge in writing.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
      (2)   A statement that the City Administrator or designee has determined
the property to be a chronic nuisance property, with a description of the
nuisance activities upon which the statement is based; and
      (3)   A statement that the person in charge shall submit a CNAP to the
City Administrator or designee within ten days from the date the notice was
personally served or mailed.
   (C)   Service shall be made either personally or by certified mail,
addressed to the person in charge at the address of the property, or such other
place which is reasonably calculated, under all the circumstances, to notify
the person in charge of the city's determination. A copy of the notice shall be
served on the owner of the property at such address shown on the tax rolls of
the county, if that person is different than the person in charge, and shall be
made either personally or by certified mail.
   (D)   The city shall post a copy of the notice at the property if a notice
is served by certified mail.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.03 ABATEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A person in charge shall respond to the City Administrator or designee
within ten days of the date the notice described in §
133.02 was served by submitting a CNAP describing the actions that the person
in charge will take to abate, correct, or eliminate the occurrence of chronic
nuisance activities.
   (B)   The City Administrator or designee shall review the CNAP submitted by
the person in charge and shall approve or deny it in writing within ten days of
it being submitted.
   (C)   The City Administrator or designee shall approve the plan provided by
the person in charge if the plan provides adequate assurances that the actions
proposed are likely to substantially decrease the incidence of chronic nuisance
activities on or around the property.
   (D)   In the event the CNAP is denied, the reasons for the denial shall be
included and the person in charge shall have ten days to resubmit a plan for
approval.
   (E)   After the City Administrator or designee approves the CNAP, the person
in charge shall implement it in accordance with the timeline and terms set
forth within the CNAP.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.04 CIVIL ACTION; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If the person in charge fails to submit and implement a CNAP as
required, or the approved CNAP does not result in the abatement of the chronic
nuisance activity, the City Administrator may refer the matter to the City
Attorney to commence legal proceedings to seek closure of the property, the
imposition of civil penalties, and any such other relief deemed appropriate.
The action shall be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction, including
City of Cascade Locks Municipal Court. The court shall award attorney fees and
costs to the prevailing party.
   (B)   The action shall be commenced by the filing of a complaint alleging
facts constituting the nuisance activities, and contain a legal description of
the property involved and an allegation that the owners of record of the
property have been notified of the facts giving rise to the alleged nuisance
activities at least ten days prior to the filing of the action with the court.
   (C)   The complaint shall be served as provided in Oregon Rules of Civil
Procedure (O.R.C.P.) 7. No service need be made prior to an application for a
temporary restraining order, provided the procedures of O.R.C.P. 79B are
followed with regard to all persons entitled to service under this section.
   (D)   If after the commencement but prior to the trial of any action or suit
brought by the city, a person in charge stipulates with the city that he or she
will pursue a course of action that the parties agree will abate the nuisance
activities giving rise to the violation, the city may agree to stay the
proceedings for a period as agreed to by the parties.
   (E)   When a person in charge responds to the City Administrator as required
by this chapter, statements made in connection with that response shall not
constitute an admission of any chronic nuisance activities. This subsection
does not require the exclusion of any evidence that is otherwise admissible or
offered for any other purpose.
   (F)   If the existence of the nuisance is established in the action, an
order of abatement shall be entered as part of the judgment in the case. The
order may contain any or all of the following remedies:
      (1)   Order that the property be closed and secured, at the expense of
the person in charge, against all access, use, and occupancy for a period of
not less than six months, nor more than one year. The court shall retain
jurisdiction during any period of closure. The person in charge may petition
the court for an order reducing the period of closure if the person in charge
and the city stipulate that the nuisance has been and will continue to be
abated. The court shall not include provisions for the closing of the premises
under the provisions of this subsection unless that relief is specifically
requested in the complaint;
      (2)   Impose a civil penalty of up to $500 per day for each day nuisance
activities occurred on the property following notice;
      (3)   Order payment of attorney fees and costs; and
      (4)   Any other relief prayed for and deemed appropriate.
   (G)   A property shall no longer be determined to be a chronic nuisance
property either after the passage of one year from the date of the last
reported chronic nuisance activity or the date the chronic nuisance abatement
plan was completed, whichever is later.
   (H)   The provisions of this chapter are separate and distinct remedies from
those specified in Chapter 95. Nothing in these provisions shall require any
conviction for criminal activities or civil judgment prior to the commencement
of any action provided herein.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.05 BURDEN OF PROOF; DEFENSES.
   (A)   The city shall have the initial burden of proof to show by a
preponderance of the evidence that the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   (B)   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors and cite those found applicable:
      (1)   The actions taken by the person in charge to mitigate or correct
the nuisance activities at the property;
      (2)   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous;
      (3)   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
      (4)   The cooperativeness of the person in charge with the city;
      (5)   The cost incurred by the city for investigating and correcting or
attempting to correct the nuisance activities; and
      (6)   Any other factor deemed by the court to be relevant.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.06 CLOSURE.
   Any emergency closure proceeding initiated under this chapter shall be based
on evidence showing that nuisance activities have occurred on the property and
that emergency action is necessary to avoid an immediate threat to public
welfare and safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of emergency closure shall
be governed by the provisions of O.R.C.P. 79 for obtaining temporary
restraining orders.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The court may authorize the city to physically secure the property
against all access, use, or occupancy in the event that the person in charge
fails to do so within the time specified by the court. In the event that the
city is authorized to secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the
city to physically secure the property shall be paid to the city by the person
in charge and shall be included in a judgment pursuant to O.R.C.P. 68. The
judgment shall also include an award of the city's other costs and
disbursements and attorney fees, if applicable.
   (B)   The person in charge shall pay reasonable relocation costs of a tenant
as determined by the court if, without actual notice, the tenant moved into the
property after either:
      (1)   A person in charge received notice from the City Administrator or
designee that the property has become a chronic nuisance property; or
      (2)   A person in charge was served with a complaint to close a chronic
nuisance property.
   (C)   Any person who is assessed costs and disbursements and/or attorney
fees under this section shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to
the city.
   (D)   Any person who enters upon property that is closed and secured by an
order pursuant to this chapter shall be considered to have entered or remained
unlawfully and thereby has committed trespass for purposes of O.R.S. 164.245
through O.R.S. 164.255.
   (E)   Any judgment entered in accordance with this chapter shall be
enforceable as a lien against the real property subject to the action.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any property within the city which is a chronic nuisance property is
subject to the remedies prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   Any person in charge in violation of this chapter shall be subject to
the remedies prescribed in this chapter.
   (C)   The following actions constitute a violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Failing to submit a CNAP as required by the City Administrator;
      (2)   Failing to resubmit a CNAP as required by the City Administrator
under §
133.03(B);
      (3)   Failing to implement the CNAP in accordance with the timeline and
terms set forth within the plan as required by §
133.03; or
      (4)   A report of an additional nuisance activity at the property after
service of the notice described in §
133.02.
   (D)   A violation of division (C) of this section constitutes a violation,
punishable by a fine of up to $500. Every day in which the violation exists
constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 452, passed 8-24-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
150.01   Adopted by reference
Community Development Code
   
150.15   Adopted by reference
Public Works Design and Construction Standards
   
150.30   Adopted by reference
System Development Charges
   
150.45   Adopted by reference
System for Addressing Property
   
150.60   Purpose
   
150.61   Applicability of standards
   
150.62   Addressing standards
   
150.63   Establishing addresses
   
150.64   Assessment of costs
   
150.65   Applicable date of new addresses
Historic Landmarks
   
150.80   Definitions
   
150.81   Historic Landmark Commission
   
150.82   Powers and duties of Landmark Commission
   
150.83   Inventory of historic resources
   
150.84   Designated landmarks register
   
150.85   Alterations, relocations and demolitions
   
150.86   Public incentives for historic preservation
   
150.87   Appeals
   
150.88   Other provisions
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 150.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised Comprehensive Plan and the Comprehensive Plan Map, copies of
which are on file in the city office, are hereby adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 349, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 363, passed 1-12-2004; Ord. 398, passed 1-26-
2009; Ord. 402, passed 8-24-2009; Ord. 410, passed 12-27-2010; Ord. 423, passed
3-25-2013)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised Community Development Code, copies of which are on file in the
city office, is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 350, passed 5-14-2001; Ord. 363, passed 1-12-2004; Ord. 370, passed 11-8-
2004; Ord. 403, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 405, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 408, passed
11-8-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-25-2013; Ord. 422, passed 3-25-2013; Ord. 424,
passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 446, passed 6-11-2018; Ord. 453, passed 4-26-2021; Ord.
458, passed 4-22-2024)
PUBLIC WORKS DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.30 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised Public Works Design and Construction Standards, copies of which
are on file in the city office, is hereby adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 371, passed 1-24-2005)
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 150.45 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The system development charges, copies of which are on file in the city
office, are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances
as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 330, passed 1-20-1998)
SYSTEM FOR ADDRESSING PROPERTY
§ 150.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a logical and easy-to-use
addressing system to describe locations within the city for use by citizens,
city staff and emergency personnel.
(Ord. 390, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 150.61 APPLICABILITY OF STANDARDS.
   These addressing standards shall be used by the City Administrator or
designee in assigning addresses for all new properties and by the Council in
readdressing existing locations where it is necessary to come into compliance
with the standards contained herein.
(Ord. 390, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 150.62 ADDRESSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Baselines.
      (1)   Two bisecting baselines are established for the purpose of dividing
the city into four quadrants (NE, NW, SE and SW); and being the zero point in
numbering addresses.
      (2)   The locations of the baselines are shown on the following map and
described as follows:
         (a)   Baseline 1. Along Wa-Na-Pa Street from its western end to the
intersection with Forest Lane; then along Forest Lane and the Historic Columbia
River Highway to the city limits; and
         (b)   Baseline 2. Along existing property lines near the Cascade Locks
Cemetery from the Columbia River to the intersection with of Forest Lane and
Wa-Na-Pa Street. Then the baseline should continue along Edgewood Street and
then along existing property lines to the city limits.
   (B)   Numbering conventions.
      (1)   At least one address should be assigned to each habitable structure
that is not clearly accessory to another building or insubstantial in nature.
When a building has multiple exterior entrances to separate tenant spaces or
separate residential units, then a separate address number should be assigned
to each exterior door. Where a single building has multiple doors leading to a
shared hallway or lobby, then only one address number should be used.
      (2)   Streets shall be numbered off of the baseline to which the street
runs closest to perpendicular.
      (3)   Numbering should begin with the numbers “1” or “2” and extend
northerly and southerly from the east-west baseline and extend easterly and
westerly from the north-south baseline. If streets do not cross a baseline they
should be numbered from the point where the street would cross a baseline if it
were extended.
      (4)   Even numbers shall be assigned on the east side of all streets
addressed off the east-west baseline and on the south side of all streets
addressed off the north-south baseline, and the odd numbers shall be assigned
on the opposite sides of the streets.
      (5)   The house numbers shall be assigned as nearly as practical to the
standard of 100 numbers assigned for each block delineated by a cross street.
In areas where cross streets are not developed or are at unusually wide or
narrow intervals, numbers should be assigned as nearly as practical to create
addressing blocks of similar size to nearby streets numbered off the same
baseline.
      (6)   The use of “A” and “B” should only be used in cases where the “B”
address is associated with the “A” address. This should be used in rare cases.
   (C)   Private streets.
      (1)   Any private driveway or privately-owned street that serves three or
more buildings approved for human occupancy for residential, commercial,
industrial or public purpose shall be designated a private street.
      (2)   All private streets shall be named.
      (3)   For private streets existing as of the establishment of this
subchapter, the Council will establish the name of the private street. However,
if a majority of residents or owners fronting that private street choose a
private street name, and that name is not a duplicate of an existing name, or
so close to the pronunciation of the name of an existing street so as to be
potentially confusing, and that name is not offensive or vulgar, the Council
shall use that name.
      (4)   For newly established private streets, the City Administrator shall
approve a new street name, proposed by the developer, if that name is not a
duplicate of an existing name, or so close to the pronunciation of the name of
an existing street so as to be potentially confusing, and that name is not
offensive or vulgar.
   (D)   Displaying addresses and street names.
      (1)   New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible from the street or
road fronting the property.
      (2)   Numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall
be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of four
inches high with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch.
      (3)   Private streets shall have street signs identifying the name of the
private street. Said signs shall meet the same standards as are required for
public street signs, except the sign face shall be white with black lettering.
      (4)   Buildings located on private streets will, in addition to the
address numbers mounted on the building, have the address numbers mounted on
the street sign, either horizontally or vertically, on metal signs with letters
at least two inches in height, and with those letters being rendered in a
reflective material that contrasts with the background color. Numbers will be
mounted so as to be visible from either direction.
      (5)   Buildings sited so as to not be visible from the fronting street,
either caused by obscuring vegetation, another building obscuring the view of
the building, or by distance exceeding 50 feet from the street, and in addition
to the address numbers mounted on the building, shall have the address numbers
mounted on a sign post at the intersection of the building’s driveway with the
street. The numbers will be mounted on the post, either horizontally or
vertically, on metal signs with letters at least two inches in height, and with
those letters being rendered in a reflective material that contrasts with the
background color. Numbers will be mounted so as to be visible from either
direction.
      (6)   Buildings must be easily identified by emergency responders riding
within an emergency response vehicle. This includes the backs of buildings
facing alleys or roads. The back door of each tenant space shall have the
numerical address and the store name on or above the door.
      (7)   No owner shall use a number other than the one assigned by the City
Administrator or designee.
      (8)   The cost of the numbers to be affixed to the house or building, the
cost of a private street sign and the cost of address number signs mounted on
posts or private street signs, shall be borne by the owner of the house or
building.
      (9)   No person shall alter, deface, obscure or remove any number
assigned and placed under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 390, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 150.63 ESTABLISHING ADDRESSES.
   (A)   The City Council shall, by resolution upon the initial adoption of
this subchapter, establish addresses throughout the city including changes of
address necessary to bring existing addresses into compliance with the
addressing standards within this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Administrator, or designee, is authorized to assign new
addresses for newly developing property in accordance with the addressing
standards of this subchapter.
(Ord. 390, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 150.64 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   When a newly developing property is subject to a planning fee
reimbursement agreement, the city’s costs to establish new addresses are
reimbursable under the terms of that agreement.
   (B)   The city will not be responsible for any costs to a private party for
coming into compliance with this subchapter including any costs for changing
printed materials or informing other parties of the address change.
(Ord. 390, passed 11-27-2006)
§ 150.65 APPLICABLE DATE OF NEW ADDRESSES.
   The addressing standards will be effective upon the effective date of this
subchapter. Any required changes in addressing will be effective as established
in the resolution establishing addresses.
(Ord. 390, passed 11-27-2006)
HISTORIC LANDMARKS
§ 150.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. An addition, removal or reconfiguration which significantly
changes the character of a historic resource, including new construction in
historic districts.
   DEMOLITION. The razing, destruction or dismantling of a resource to the
degree that its historic character is substantially obliterated.
   DESIGNATED LANDMARK. A property officially recognized by the city as
important in its history.
   DESIGNATED LANDMARKS REGISTER. The list of, and record of information about,
properties officially recognized by the city as important in its history.
   EXTRAORDINARY HISTORIC IMPORTANCE. The quality of historic significance
achieved outside the usual norms of age, association or rarity.
   HISTORIC INTEGRITY. The quality of wholeness of historic location, design,
setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and/or association of a resource, as
opposed to its physical condition.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE.
      (1)   A building, structure, object, site or district which meets the
significance and integrity criteria for designation as a landmark.
      (2)   Resource types are further described as:
         (a)   BUILDING. A construction made for purposes of shelter or
habitation, e.g., house, barn, store, theater, train station, garage, school
and the like.
         (b)   DISTRICT. A geographically defined area possessing a significant
concentration of buildings, structures, objects and/or sites which are unified
historically by plan or physical development, e.g., downtown, residential
neighborhood, military reservation, ranch complex and the like.
         (c)   OBJECT. A construction which is primarily artistic or
commemorative in nature and not normally movable or part of a building or
structure, e.g., statue, fountain, milepost, monument, sign and the like.
         (d)   SITE. The location of a significant event, use or occupation
which may include associated standing, ruined or underground features, e.g.,
battlefield, shipwreck, campsite, cemetery, natural feature, garden, food-
gathering area and the like.
         (e)   STRUCTURE. A construction made for functions other than shelter
or habitation, e.g., bridge, windmill, dam, highway, boat, kiln and the like.
   HISTORIC RESOURCES OF STATEWIDE SIGNIFICANCE. Buildings, structures,
objects, sites and districts which are listed on the National Register of
Historic Places.
   INVENTORY OF HISTORIC RESOURCES. The record of information about resources
potentially significant in the history of the City of Cascade Locks, Hood River
County.
   RELOCATION. The removal of a resource from its historic context.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.081 HISTORIC LANDMARK COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall appoint a Historic Landmark
Commission, hereinafter the Commission, of five members with a demonstrated
positive interest, knowledge or competence in historic preservation to carry
out the provisions of this subchapter. A majority of the members shall reside
within the corporate boundaries of the city. Members shall serve without
compensation, but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses related to their
service.
   (B)   A simple majority of the seated members shall constitute a quorum to
conduct official business.
   (C)   A Chair and Vice-Chair shall be elected annually by and from the
seated membership. Officers are eligible for reelection.
   (D)   The Commission shall meet at least twice a year, and as required to
conduct business in a timely fashion. Notice of the meetings shall be in
accordance with applicable state law. Minutes, applications, staff reports,
findings and decisions of the Commission shall be maintained as public records
in accordance with applicable state law.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.082 POWERS AND DUTIES OF LANDMARK COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt and amend bylaws, subject to approval by the
City Council, to regulate its internal operations.
   (B)   For purposes consistent with this subchapter and subject to the
approval of the City Council, the Commission may seek, accept and expend public
appropriations; seek, accept and expend grant and gift funds; cooperate with
public and private entities; and employ clerical and expert assistance.
   (C)   The Commission may undertake to inform the citizens of, and visitors
to the city regarding the community’s history and prehistory; promote research
into its history and prehistory; collect and make available materials on the
preservation of historic resources; provide information on state and federal
preservation programs; document historic resources prior to their alteration,
demolition or relocation and archive that documentation; assist the owners of
historic resources in securing funding for the preservation of their
properties; and recommend public incentives and code amendments to the City
Council.
   (D)   The Commission may develop and publish, or adopt, written and graphic
guideline and example materials to clarify the criteria in this subchapter and
to assist applicants in developing complete and viable applications.
   (E)   Employing the procedures and criteria in §
150.083, the Commission shall periodically identify and evaluate the historic
resources of the city and maintain an inventory of historic resources. At such
time as surveys are being conducted, owners of the subject properties shall be
notified and invited to provide comment and input.
   (F)   Employing the procedures and criteria in §
150.084, the Commission shall periodically revise the designated landmarks
register of the city by adding or deleting properties.
   (G)   Employing the procedures and criteria in §
150.085, the Commission shall review and act upon applications for the
alteration, relocation or demolition of designated landmarks, or the major
exterior alteration, relocation or demolition of historic resources of
statewide significance.
   (H)   The Commission shall advise and make policy recommendations to the
City Council and the Planning Commission on matters relating to historic
preservation; and shall make an annual report, in writing, to the City Council
on its activities and expenditures during the preceding 12 months, and its
projected activities and expenditures for the following 12 months.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.083 INVENTORY OF HISTORIC RESOURCES.
   (A)   The Commission shall determine and periodically revise priorities for
the identification and evaluation of historic resources.
   (B)   Unless the Commission finds extraordinary historic importance, only
properties over 50 years of age shall be considered for inclusion in the
inventory of historic resources.
   (C)   The Commission shall develop or adopt a system, based on historic
integrity and significance, for evaluating historic resources. The system shall
rank surveyed historic resources as eligible, potentially eligible or
ineligible for listing on the designated landmarks register. Owners of surveyed
properties shall be notified of these findings.
   (D)   Documentation of properties in the inventory of historic resources
shall be on forms compatible with the statewide inventory of historic
properties, and upon completion, copies of the forms shall be supplied to the
State Historic Preservation Office.
   (E)   Records concerning archaeological sites shall not be made available to
the public.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.084 DESIGNATED LANDMARKS REGISTER.
   (A)   Properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places,
including all properties within National Register Historic District boundaries,
are eligible for automatic listing on the designated landmarks register. As
historic resources of statewide significance, all such properties are subject
to the regulations in §
150.085 regardless of their listing on the designated landmarks register,
pursuant to O.A.R. 660-023-200. However, only properties listed on the
designated landmarks register shall be eligible for public incentives and code
considerations pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Any individual or group, including the Commission acting on its own
initiative, may nominate a historic resource for inclusion on or removal from
the designated landmarks register by submitting a complete application to the
Planning Commission. The burden of proof lies with the applicant. No property
shall be so designated without the written consent of the owner or, in the case
of multiple ownership, a majority of the owners.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall establish standards for a complete
application. Upon acceptance of a complete application the Planning Commission
shall schedule a public hearing pursuant to applicable state laws.
   (D)   In order to be included or maintained on the designated landmarks
register the Commission must find that the historic resource is over 50 years
of age or of extraordinary historic importance and possesses sufficient
historic integrity, and:
      (1)   Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution
to the broad patterns of local, state or national history;
      (2)   Is associated with the lives of persons, or groups of people,
significant in local, state or national history; or
      (3)   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of an architectural type,
style, period or method of construction or that represents the work of a
master; or that possesses high artistic values; or that represents a
significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual
distinction; or has yielded or is likely to yield information which is
important in local, state or national history.
   (E)   The Commission shall develop findings to support its decisions. These
findings shall indicate those elements of a property, including interior,
landscape and archaeological features, that are included in the designation and
subject to regulation under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.085 ALTERATIONS, RELOCATIONS AND DEMOLITIONS.
   (A)   No exterior, interior, landscape or archaeological element of a
designated landmark which is specified as significant in its designation shall
be altered, removed or demolished without a permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (B)   No major exterior alteration, relocation or demolition of a historic
resource of statewide significance shall be allowed without a permit issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   Prior to submitting an application for a permit pursuant to this
section, proponents are encouraged to request a pre-application conference to
review concepts and proposals. The Planning Commission may form ad-hoc
committees for this purpose. Commission members participating in pre-
application conferences shall disclose their ex-parte contact at the time of a
public hearing on the proposal.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall establish standards for a complete
application. Upon acceptance of a complete application the Planning Commission
shall schedule a public hearing pursuant to applicable state laws.
   (E)   In cases requiring a public hearing, the Commission shall review and
act upon applications for the alteration, relocation or demolition of a
designated landmark, or the major exterior alteration, relocation or demolition
of a historic resource of statewide significance. The burden of proof lies with
the applicant. Applications may be approved, approved with conditions or
denied. The city shall include any conditions imposed by the Commission in
permits issued pursuant to this section.
   (F)   In order to approve an application for the alteration of a designated
landmark or the major alteration of a historic resource of statewide
significance, the Commission must find that the proposal meets the following
standards.
      (1)   A property shall be used as it was historically or be given a new
use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features, spaces
and spatial relationships.
      (2)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The relocation of distinctive materials or alteration of features,
spaces and spatial relationships that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      (3)   A property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic properties,
shall not be undertaken.
      (4)   Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in
their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      (5)   Distinctive materials, features, finishes and construction
techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be
preserved.
      (6)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features shall
be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
      (7)   Chemical and physical treatments, if appropriate, shall be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to
historic materials shall not be used.
      (8)   Archeological resources shall be protected and preserved in place.
If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures shall be undertaken.
      (9)   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials, features and spatial relationships that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old
and shall be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and
proportion and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its
environment.
      (10)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
   (G)   In order to approve an application for the relocation or demolition of
a designated landmark or historic resource of statewide significance, the
Commission must find that:
      (1)   No prudent and feasible alternative exists;
      (2)   The designated property is deteriorated beyond repair; or
      (3)   The value to the community of the proposed use of the property
outweighs the value of retaining the designated landmark or historic resource
of statewide significance.
   (H)   At the hearing of an application to relocate or demolish a designated
landmark or historic resource of statewide significance, the Commission may, in
the interest of exploring reasonable alternatives, delay issuance of a permit
for up to 120 days from the date of the hearing. If, ten days prior to the
expiration of the delay period the Commission finds that there are still
reasonable alternatives to explore, it may apply to the City Council for
permission to continue the delay for an additional period of up to 120 days.
   (I)   In approving an application for the demolition of a designated
landmark or historic resource of statewide significance, the Commission may
impose the following conditions:
      (1)   Photographic, video or drawn recordation of the property to be
demolished;
      (2)   Salvage and curation of significant elements; and/or
      (3)   Other reasonable mitigation measures.
   (J)   No provision of this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
ordinary repair or maintenance of a designated landmark or historic resource of
statewide significance when such action does not involve a change in design,
materials or appearance.
   (K)   No provision in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
alteration, demolition or relocation of a designated landmark or historic
resource of statewide significance when the Building Official certifies that
such action is required for the public safety.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.086 PUBLIC INCENTIVES FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
   To obtain grant funding for the preservation of the historic landmark.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.087 APPEALS.
   (A)   Decisions of the Commission are appealable to the City Council.
Decisions of the City Council are appealable to the Land Use Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Procedures for appeals to the City Council shall be the same as those
for appeals of Planning Commission decisions.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 150.088 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   There is no fee for designation of a historic resource as a designated
landmark. Fees for other applications shall be determined by the City Council
based on the cost of processing the application.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not effect any citation,
complaint, prosecution or other proceeding pending at the time this subchapter
is enacted.
   (C)   Should any section, division, sentence or word of this subchapter be
declared for any reason to be invalid, it is the intent of the City Council
that it would have passed all other portions of this subchapter independent of
the elimination of any portion as may be declared invalid.
(Ord. 393, passed 1-14-2008)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised flood damage prevention regulations, copies of which are on file
in the city office, are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 261, passed 2-1-1989)
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating an alley consisting of two parcels of land
                     located in a portion of Lovell Addition, more particularly
347      10-23-2000  described as the portion of the 20.00-foot in even alley
                     width and its westerly extension and the 20.00-foot in
                     even alley width and its easterly extension, both as shown
                     on the Lovell Addition plat.
366      7-26-2004   Vacation of Catherine Street.
                     Vacating the portion of the southeast quarter of Section
                     6, Township 2 North, Range 8 East of the Willamette
389      11-27-2006  Meridian lying within the Uehlinger Subdivision shown on
                     the plat of said subdivision as a public road extending
                     west from Kathleen Street.
400      7-13-2009   Vacating a public utility easement on Lot 1 of Hammond
                     Addition.
                     Vacating a public utility easement through two properties
404      3-8-2010    owned by the Port of Cascade Locks on the south side of
                     Wa-Na-Pa Street east of Oneonta Street.
                     Vacating a public utility easement described on the plat
406      7-12-2010   of Hammond Addition, located on the north side of Sunset
                     Street.
418      9-12-2012   Vacating a portion of Hassalo Street and providing for
                     vesting of title.
447      6-11-2018   Vacating Johnson Street and providing for vesting of
                     title.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Section Code Section
O.R.S. Section                          Code Section
97.220                                  93.06
97.740-97.760                           97.01
105.668 to 105.700                      74.46
Chapter 153                             115.05
                                        130.001,
Chapters 161 through 169                130.040,
                                        130.999,
                                        131.99
161.405                                 132.03,
                                        133.01
161.435                                 132.03
161.450                                 132.03
161.455                                 133.01
162.325                                 133.01
163.160                                 133.01
163.165                                 133.01
163.175                                 133.01
163.185                                 133.01
163.187                                 133.01
163.190                                 133.01
163.195                                 133.01
163.465                                 133.01
163.467                                 133.01
164.015 through 164.140                 133.01
164.135                                 133.01
164.245                                 132.03,
                                        132.07
164.245 through 164.255                 133.98
164.315 through 164.325                 133.01
164.345 through 164.365                 133.01
166.025                                 133.01
166.065                                 133.01
166.155 through 166.165                 133.01
166.290                                 130.070
167.007 through 167.017                 133.01
167.117                                 114.01
167.121                                 114.01
167.203                                 133.01
175B.400 through 465B.525               133.01
Chapter 192                             Chapter 91,
                                        112.15
221.515(2)                              96.21
227.010 to 227.180                      31.02
Chapter 297                             112.15
305.220                                 112.09 ,
                                        116.04
305.620                                 112.01 ,
                                        116.04
314.400                                 112.09 ,
                                        116.04
401.035                                 33.04
401.025(4)                              33.03
401.305                                 33.08
401.309                                 33.05
Chapter 459                             50.09
475.912                                 132.03
Chapter 475                             132.03
475.005 through 475.285                 133.01
475.302                                 116.01
475.752 through 475.980                 133.01
475A.290                                117.01
475A.305                                117.01
475B.010 through 475B.395               133.01
475C.009(25)                            116.04
475C.453                                116.04
475C.670 to 475C.734                    116.04
476.005                                 91.012
476.010                                 91.012
476.030(3)                              91.012
476.060                                 91.012
476.070                                 91.012
476.090                                 91.012
476.150 through 476.290                 91.012
476.715 through 476.990(5)              91.012
479.015                                 91.012
479.170                                 91.012
479.190                                 91.012
479.195                                 91.012
479.210 through 479.300                 91.012
479.990(6)                              91.012
Chapter 480                             91.083
480.110                                 91.012
480.110 to 480.165                      91.083
480.120                                 91.012,
                                        91.083
480.124                                 91.012
480.127                                 91.012,
                                        91.083
480.140                                 91.012
480.152                                 91.012
480.154                                 91.012
480.158                                 91.012
480.160                                 91.012
480.290                                 91.012
480.310 through 480.340                 91.012
480.410 through 480.430                 91.012
480.450                                 91.012
480.990(5)                              91.012
480.990(7)                              91.012
480.990(8)                              91.012
527.610 to 527.785                      111.02
Chapter 624                             115.02
624.020                                 115.02
624.082                                 115.02
624.084                                 115.02
624.086                                 115.02
624.320                                 115.02
759.010                                 96.21
Chapters 801 through 826                70.02
801.355                                 73.02
801.475                                 73.02
801.575                                 73.02
806.010                                 75.06
807.010(1)                              75.06
807.010(2)                              75.06
807.570(1)(a)                           75.06
811.175                                 75.06
811.182                                 75.06
811.635 to 811.637                      73.09
813.010                                 75.06
                                        130.999,
Chapter 814                             131.35,
                                        131.36
Chapter 814, §§ 814.485 through 814.48131.35
819.100 through 819.260                 75.05
819.180(2)                              75.06
819.210 to 819.260                      75.06
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     131.20—
140      5-16-1966   131.22,
                     131.99
                     130.001—
                     130.003,
                     130.015—
                     130.026,
                     130.040—
                     130.044,
                     130.055,
187      9-9-1974    130.056,
                     130.070,
                     130.071,
                     130.100—
                     130.107,
                     130.999,
                     131.01—
                     131.05,
                     131.99
189      2-24-1975   114.01,
                     114.99
194      3-14-1977   130.056
228      1-10-1983   30.02
259      12-5-1988   31.15—
                     31.19
261      2-1-1989    151.01
                     113.01—
265      6-28-1989   113.07,
                     113.99
280      9-24-1990   130.071
286      4-8-1991    130.071
                     92.01—
301      8-24-1992   92.13,
                     92.99
305      4-26-1993   32.01
307      5-10-1993   31.01—
                     31.04
314      1-10-1994   32.02,
                     32.99
                     50.01—
315      5-9-1994    50.13,
                     50.99
325      8-9-1996    30.01
327      2-10-1997   31.03,
                     31.04
330      1-20-1998   150.45
                     111.01—
331      5-11-1998   111.09,
                     111.99
                     131.50—
339      6-28-1999   131.53,
                     131.99
                     95.01—
344      7-10-2000   95.05,
                     95.99
345      9-25-2000   92.01,
                     92.03
347      10-23-2000  TSO I
349      5-14-2001   150.01
350      5-14-2001   150.15
354      7-9-2001    132.01—
                     132.08
356      11-26-2001  76.01
                     70.01—
                     70.03,
                     70.15—
                     70.17,
                     70.30—
                     70.34,
                     70.45,
                     70.99,
                     71.01—
                     71.03,
                     72.01—
                     72.11,
                     73.01—
                     73.09,
                     73.20—
                     73.22,
357      2-25-2002   73.35,
                     73.36,
                     73.50—
                     73.55,
                     74.01,
                     74.15—
                     74.17,
                     74.30,
                     74.31,
                     74.45,
                     74.46,
                     74.60—
                     74.62,
                     74.75,
                     74.76,
                     75.01—
                     75.06
                     33.01—
362      11-24-2003  33.08,
                     33.99
363      1-12-2004   150.01,
                     150.15
366      7-26-2004   TSO I
370      11-8-2004   150.15
371      1-24-2005   150.30
374      5-23-2005   52.55
                     90.01—
375      6-13-2005   90.04,
                     90.99
                     110.01—
378      7-11-2005   110.07,
                     110.99
                     91.001—
                     91.016,
                     91.030—
                     91.038,
                     91.050—
                     91.053,
382      12-12-2005  91.065,
                     91.066,
                     91.080—
                     91.085,
                     91.100—
                     91.110,
                     91.999
                     131.35—
383      1-23-2006   131.37,
                     131.99
387      6-12-2006   52.01—
                     52.23
389      11-27-2006  TSO I
390      11-27-2006  150.60—
                     150.65
                     51.01—
392      10-8-2007   51.11,
                     51.99
393      1-14-2008   150.080—
                     150.088
                     96.01—
395      7-28-2008   96.05,
                     96.99
398      1-26-2009   150.01
400      7-13-2009   TSO I
402      8-24-2009   150.01
403      12-14-2009  150.15
404      3-8-2010    TSO I
405      4-12-2010   150.15
406      7-12-2010   TSO I
                     97.01—
407      7-26-2010   97.03,
                     97.99
408      11-8-2010   150.15
410      12-27-2010  150.01
412      5-23-2011   30.15
                     52.35—
415      3-12-2012   52.43,
                     52.99
418      9-12-2012   TSO I
421      3-25-2013   150.15
422      3-25-2013   150.15
423      3-25-2013   150.01
424      3-25-2013   150.15
426      10-28-2013  51.99
427      10-28-2013  70.45
428      10-28-2013  92.99
429      10-28-2013  111.08,
                     111.99
430      10-28-2013  91.085
432      4-14-2014   Adopting Ordinance
435      11-10-2014  96.20—
                     96.23
439      7-27-2015   116.01—
                     116.03
                     53.01—
440      10-26-2015  53.13,
                     53.99
443      6-26-2017   93.01—
                     93.06
                     94.01—
444      7-24-2017   94.08,
                     94.99
                     94.01—
445      11-13-2017  94.08,
                     94.99
446      6-11-2018   150.15
447      6-11-2018   TSO I
448      6-25-2018   152.01,
                     152.02
                     115.01—
450      4-8-2019    115.06,
                     115.99
451      7-27-2020   90.05
                     133.01—
452      8-24-2020   133.06,
                     133.98,
                     133.99
453      4-26-2021   150.15
                     112.01—
454      9-27-2021   112.16,
                     112.99
455      5-23-2022   116.04
456      8-8-2022    117.01
                     50.01—
457      7-24-2023   50.13,
                     50.99
458      4-22-2024   150.15
460      11-25-2024  118.01,
                     118.02
                    
 
 
