CITY CODE
of
CLATSKANIE, OREGON
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 707, passed 6-7-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Clatskanie, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 707, passed June 7, 2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 644
   REVISING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES
   OF THE CITY OF CLATSKANIE, OREGON, AND
   ADOPTING THE CLATSKANIE CITY CODE
Whereas, the city council seeks to update and modernize the Clatskanie city
code in order to establish more efficient and effective city governance; and
Whereas, the Clatskanie planning commission and the city council have held
multiple meetings and public hearings over the course of several months to
discuss proposed changes to the code and solicit public input; and
Whereas, Sterling Codifiers, Inc. is a qualified codification service and has
produced the city code in an updated and digitized format.
NOW THEREFORE THE CITY OF CLATSKANIE ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of ORS 221.310 et seq., and from and
after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city code of the city of
Clatskanie, Oregon prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances through ordinance no. 631 adopted on March 3, 2004,
under the direction of the governing body of the city, shall be accepted in all
courts without question as the official code and law of the city as enacted by
the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by a codification service approved by the city, whereby each newly
adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding
or deleting provisions of the official city code is identified by the proper
catchline and is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies,
one copy of which shall be maintained in the office of the city manager,
certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times
that said office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: Any violation of any provision of this ordinance hereby adopted
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
occurrence.
   Section 6: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 7: Sterling Codifiers, Inc, has prepared and made available in
digital form the Clatskanie city code at the website: www.sterlingcodifiers.com
and amendments hereto attached as exhibit "A" to this ordinance are hereby
adopted.
   Section 8: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be
effective thirty days after passage on the date listed below.
Passed by the council of the city of Clatskanie this 1st day of March 2006.
            Diane Pohl, Mayor
Attest:         
   Tina Hendricks, CMC
   City Recorder
1st Reading:   February 15, 2006
2nd Reading:   March 1, 2006
ROLL CALL ON ADOPTION:   Aye   Nay   Absent
Mayor:    Diane Pohl      x
Councilors:   Bertie Barr      x
   Steve Constans      x
   Kathy Engel         x
   Richard Frazier      x
   Larry Garlock      x
   Ron Puzey         x
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Adoption Of Code
1-1-2: Title; Citation; Reference
1-1-3: Contents
1-1-4: Application To Amendments
1-1-5: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-1-6: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1-1-7: Code Alterations
1-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
There is adopted the Clatskanie municipal code as published by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. (1996 Code § 1.01.010; amd. 2004 Code)
1-1-2: TITLE; CITATION; REFERENCE:
This code shall be known as the CLATSKANIE MUNICIPAL CODE and it shall be
sufficient to refer to the code as the "Clatskanie municipal code" in any
prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at
law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to,
amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an
addition to, amendment to, correction or repeal of the "Clatskanie municipal
code". Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and
subsections of the "Clatskanie municipal code", and such references shall apply
to that numbered title, chapter, section or subsection as it appears in this
code. (1996 Code § 1.01.020; amd. 2004 Code)
1-1-3: CONTENTS:
This code consists of the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of the
administrative ordinances of the city. (1996 Code § 1.01.030)
1-1-4: APPLICATION TO AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the "Clatskanie municipal code" or
to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the city, the reference shall
apply to all amendments, corrections and additions made before, as of or after
the effective date hereof. (1996 Code § 1.01.050)
1-1-5: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent
of the provisions of any title, chapter or section of this code. (1996 Code §
1.01.060)
1-1-6: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this code. (1996 Code § 1.01.070)
1-1-7: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
recorder when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   B.   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this city
code by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender,
several matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies
corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this city code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The appointed director of the police department.
CITY: The city of Clatskanie, county of Columbia, state of Oregon.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Clatskanie.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the mayor and city council of the city of
Clatskanie.
COUNTY: The county of Columbia, state of Oregon.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Clatskanie".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
OAR: Oregon administrative rules.
ORS: Oregon Revised Statutes.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Clatskanie".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: A person with the legal right of possession or lawful title to property,
either real or personal.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PUBLIC TRANSIT FACILITIES: Include one or more of the following: a bus stop,
building shelter, or park and ride lot where bus service is accessed.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, these
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1996 Code §§ 1.04.070, 1.04.320, 1.04.330; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 658, 11-
4-2009)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY; ASSESSMENTS AND FEES
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty For Code Violations
1-4-2: Assessments And Fees Established
1-4-1: PENALTY FOR CODE VIOLATIONS:
Unless otherwise stated in this code, any violation of any ordinance of this
code shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Each day's violation of any provision of this code constitutes a separate
offense. (2004 Code)
1-4-2: ASSESSMENTS AND FEES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Schedule Of Fees: The schedule of municipal court assessments and fees
shall comprise the following:
      1.   State Mandated Assessments: Any assessment amounts mandated by state
law shall be collected according to the provisions of state law.
      2.   City Assessment: Court costs shall be separate and distinct from any
fine, assessment or other penalty imposed by the court, such assessments shall
be set by the city council.
   B.   General Fund: The city shall account for such assessment and fees as
appropriate to ensure legal compliance for the financial management of such
funds. Any such funds remaining unexpended at the end of each fiscal year will
remain in the general fund as undedicated revenue. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNCIL RULES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Authority
1-5-2: Mayor And Council
1-5-3: Council Meetings
1-5-4: Agenda And Order Of Business
1-5-5: Procedure For Council Meetings
1-5-6: Decorum And Order
1-5-7: Censure
1-5-8: Code Of Ethics
1-5-9: Council Relations With City Staff
1-5-10: Committees
1-5-11: Confidentiality
1-5-12: Suspension Or Amendment Of Rules
1-5-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   City Charter: The charter of the city in chapter IV, section 14,
"Rules", specifies: "The council shall, by ordinance, prescribe rules to govern
its meetings and proceedings".
   B.   Effective Date: The rules adopted in this chapter shall be in effect
upon their adoption by the city council and until such time as they are
amended, added to, deleted or replaced in the manner provided by these rules.
   C.   Application: These rules apply equally to the mayor and councilors.
   D.   Compliance With Charter: These rules are to be observed in addition to
and may not be contradictory to the current city charter. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-2: MAYOR AND COUNCIL:
The mayor and council (hereafter, council) are the policy making body of the
city. The council speaks on policies and issues with one voice or not at all.
Council decisions may not be unanimous but once voted upon define the position
of the entire council. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-3: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the council will be held the
first Wednesday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. in the council
chambers at Clatskanie city hall. (Ord. 642, 12-7-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
   B.   Time And Date Of Meetings; Notice:
      1.   Time and date of the regular council meetings may be changed for
special circumstances, to facilitate work sessions or in order to have a quorum
of councilors at the meeting.
      2.   Regular meeting notice requirements must be followed.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be called at any
time on the request of three (3) members of the council, by the mayor, or by
the president of the council in the mayor's absence, by giving notice of the
meeting to the council members and the public at least twenty four (24) hours
in advance in a manner and for such time as the exigencies of the case may
permit, but with a view to obtaining the largest possible attendance of council
members.
   D.   Additional Or Alternate Meetings: Although the council may choose other
days in which to hold their meetings, the third Wednesday shall be the
preferred alternate meeting time.
   E.   Emergency Meetings: Emergency meetings of the council are considered
special meetings which can be called when no more than twenty four (24) hours'
notice can be given. The minutes need to state the nature of the emergency.
Emergency meetings may be held by consent of a majority of councilors. An
attempt must be made to notify the public or the press of the need for this
emergency meeting.
   F.   Workshop Or Training Meetings:
      1.   Workshop or training meetings of the council may be held at the
convenience of the council at a time when as many as possible can attend. These
meetings may be held for council goal setting, new councilor training, or
longer workshops for planning programs or projects.
      2.   Goal setting retreats may be held outside the city so long as no
decision making or discussion toward decisions occurs. Any goals arrived at by
any process should be confirmed in public at a regular council meeting.
      3.   The council may decide if the public is welcome at any of these
meetings and they may be held without opportunity for public input.
   G.   Executive Sessions:
      1.   Executive sessions may be held by the council pursuant to Oregon
Revised Statutes 192.640, 192.650, 192.660 and 192.670. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
      2.   Only those staff members required to attend will be present. (Ord.
600, 12-1-1999; amd. 2004 Code)
   H.   Public Meetings:
      1.   Public meetings of the council will be held in accordance with
Oregon Revised Statutes 192.610 through 192.710.
      2.   All regular and special meetings will be open to the public and
provide an opportunity for public input.
   I.   Attendance: Councilors should inform the mayor, city manager or city
recorder if unable to attend any council meeting. The mayor will inform the
council president if unable to attend any council meeting. (Ord. 600, 12-1-
1999)
1-5-4: AGENDA AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Preparation And Distribution Of Agenda: An agenda for each regular
council meeting shall be prepared by the city manager. The mayor or the city
council may direct that specific items be included on the agenda. The city
manager should be given enough time to do necessary research or prepare
necessary reports to address the agenda items. Agendas and informational
material should be distributed to the council at least four (4) days prior to
the meeting.
   B.   Order Of Business: The normal order of business for a regular council
meeting shall be as follows:
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Flag salute.
      3.   Public input.
      4.   Consent agenda.
Minutes
Payment of bills
Liquor license permits
Bid awards
Resolutions
      5.   Presentations (prearranged).
      6.   Public hearings.
      7.   Action items.
      8.   Ordinances, first readings.
      9.   Ordinances, second readings and passage.
      10.   Manager's report.
      11.   Councilors' items.
      12.   Mayor's items.
      13.   Executive session.
      14.   Action as the result of the executive session (if required).
      15.   Adjournment.
   C.   Agenda Items Taken Out Of Order; Mayor's Discretion: The mayor may
consider agenda items out of order as he deems necessary to facilitate the
efficient management of the agenda. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-5: PROCEDURE FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules Of Order: Unless otherwise provided by law or by these rules, the
procedure for council meetings shall be governed by "Robert's Rules Of Order".
The mayor, as presiding officer, may utilize "Robert's Rules Of Order" as
necessary.
   B.   Recognition: Every councilor desiring to speak should first address the
chair, and await recognition to obtain the floor. No persons other than members
of the council and the person having the floor shall enter into any discussion,
either directly or through a member of the council, without the permission of
the presiding officer.
   C.   Requirement Of "Second" Before Debate: No motion shall be debated until
it has been seconded and announced by the presiding officer.
   D.   Public Input During Open Comment Period: Members of the public desiring
to address the mayor and council shall first be recognized by the presiding
officer and then state their name and address for the record. Each person shall
have up to three (3) minutes to present their comments. Groups with like
comments should choose a spokesperson who will present their joint remarks.
   E.   Questions Or Complaints Directed To City Manager: Councilors should
refer people with questions or complaints to the city manager, explaining that
if they are not satisfied with the results of that meeting, they should ask to
be put on the next council meeting agenda or present their issue during the
public input portion at the next council meeting.
   F.   Councilor Responses: City councilors normally should not directly
respond to a public comment during the public open comment period. Councilor
comments should be held until the councilor comment period later in the meeting
or referred to the city manager for a response at a subsequent time.
   G.   Public Comment During Public Hearings: Remarks shall be limited to the
question then under discussion. All remarks and questions shall be addressed to
the council as a whole and not to any individual councilor. Any remarks and
questions regarding personnel or administration of the city shall be referred
to the city manager by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may
redirect other questions to a city councilor or the city manager, as
appropriate.
   H.   Questions Of City Staff By Councilors: Every councilor may address
questions directly to the city manager, who may either answer the inquiry or
designate a staff member to do so. Councilors are encouraged to present their
questions to the city manager prior to the meeting, when possible.
   I.   Restating Motion: Prior to a vote, the presiding officer shall restate
the motion or have the maker of the motion restate it to assure clarity of the
issue.
   J.   Voting: When a quorum is present, a majority of the council present and
voting shall decide a motion. Each councilor's vote shall be recorded
individually. A councilor who is present but abstains from voting is still
counted in the quorum. A councilor must be present to vote.
   K.   Abstentions: Councilors should abstain from voting only when they have
a conflict of interest or are not well informed on the issue that is being
voted upon.
   L.   Tie Votes: A motion fails in the event of a tie vote.
   M.   Reconsideration: A councilor who votes on the prevailing side of a
motion may move for reconsideration of any vote. This motion must occur during
the meeting or at the very next scheduled council meeting.
   N.   Anonymous Communications: Anonymous and unsigned communications shall
not be introduced in council meetings. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-6: DECORUM AND ORDER:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The presiding officer shall preserve decorum and
decide all points of order, subject to appeal to the council.
   B.   Conduct Of Councilors: The councilors shall help the presiding officer
preserve decorum during council meetings and shall not, by conversation or
other action, delay or interrupt the proceedings or refuse to follow the
directions of the presiding officer or these council rules. Councilors shall,
when addressing staff or members of the public, confine themselves to questions
or issues then under discussion, shall not engage in personal attack, shall not
impugn the motives of any speaker, and shall at all times, while in session or
otherwise, conduct themselves in a manner appropriate to the dignity of their
office.
   C.   City Staff And Employees: Members of the administrative staff,
employees of the city and other persons attending council meetings shall
observe the same rules of procedure, decorum and good conduct applicable to the
members of the council.
   D.   Unruly Behavior Of Attendees:
      1.   Any person who makes personal, impertinent, slanderous or
unauthorized remarks or who becomes boisterous while addressing the council or
attending a council meeting may be removed from the room, after fair warning,
if the presiding officer so directs. In case the presiding officer should fail
to act, any member of the council may obtain the floor and move to require
enforcement of this rule. Upon affirmative vote of the majority of the council
present, the person or persons shall be removed as if the presiding officer so
directed. Stamping of the feet, whistles, yells and clapping are similarly not
permitted.
      2.   Such person or persons may be barred from further audience before
the council and, in aggravated cases, an appropriate complaint shall be issued
by the presiding officer to prosecute this person or persons.
   E.   Disruption By Audience: If a meeting is disrupted by members of the
audience, the mayor may order that the council chamber be cleared and a recess
called until order is restored. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-7: CENSURE:
   A.   Authority To Discipline Council Member: The council has the inherent
right to make and enforce its own rules and to ensure compliance with those
laws generally applicable to public bodies. Should any councilor act in any
manner constituting a substantial violation of these rules or other general
laws, the council, acting as a whole, may discipline that councilor to the
extent provided by law, including public reprimand.
   B.   Investigation: To exercise such inherent right, the council has the
right to investigate the actions of any member of the council. Such
investigation shall be referred to the council as a whole in executive session
to discuss any finding that reasonable grounds exist that a substantial
violation has occurred.
   C.   Information Confidential: No individual councilor shall have the right
to make public any information obtained through such investigation. (Ord. 600,
12-1-1999)
1-5-8: CODE OF ETHICS:
   A.   Ethical Conduct: Councilors are encouraged to conduct themselves so as
to bring credit upon the city as a whole, and to set an example of good ethical
conduct for all citizens of the community. Councilors should constantly bear in
mind these responsibilities to the entire electorate, and refrain from actions
benefiting any individual or special interest group at the expense of the city
as a whole. Councilors should likewise do everything in their power to ensure
impartial application of the law to all citizens, and equal treatment of each
citizen before the law, without regard to race, national origin, sex, age,
social station or economic position.
   B.   Present Majority Position Of Council: If the mayor or a councilor
represents the city before another public body, governmental agency, community
organization or with the media, the mayor or councilor should always present
the majority position of the council. Personal opinions and comments may be
expressed only if it includes clarification that these statements do not
represent the position of the city council.
   C.   Representing Another Councilor's View: A councilor needs to have
another councilor's concurrence before representing that councilor's view or
position with the media, if it is different from the majority. (Ord. 600, 12-1-
1999)
1-5-9: COUNCIL RELATIONS WITH CITY STAFF:
   A.   Respect Those With Opposing Views: There will be mutual respect from
both staff and councilors of their respective roles and responsibilities when
and if expressing criticism in a public meeting.
   B.   Policies And Goals: The council sets city policies and goals. The staff
implements and administers the policies and goals.
   C.   Requests For Information: During a city council meeting, all requests
for information go directly to the mayor or city manager. At other times, if
the request for information would entail an effort that would require time to
be spent in researching and/or preparing a response, the request goes directly
to the city manager. The city manager will direct them to the other staff, the
city attorney or deal with them him/herself as appropriate. Questions or
complaints regarding staff go directly to the mayor or city manager.
   D.   Councilor Concerns Regarding City Staff: The city councilors may seek
information from staff members regarding the operation of their department, but
will not attempt to change or interfere with the operation or practice of any
city department or personnel, except by directing their concerns to the city
manager. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-10: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Appointment By Mayor: Board, commission, committee and task force
members are appointed by the mayor.
   B.   Budget Committee: The budget committee shall consist of seven (7)
resident lay members and the members of the city council for a total of
fourteen (14). The budget committee shall annually select a committee chair,
vice chair and secretary. The lay members' terms shall be three (3) years,
overlapping.
   C.   Planning Commission 1 : The planning commission shall consist of five
(5) persons with four (4) year overlapping terms. The members of the planning
commission shall annually, during the first meeting of the calendar year,
select a chair and vice chair. A staff member shall serve to keep the minutes
of each meeting.
   D.   Recreation Advisory Committee 2 : The recreation advisory committee
shall consist of five (5) persons with two (2) year overlapping terms. The
committee shall annually, during their first meeting of the calendar year,
select a chair and vice chair. A staff representative shall keep the minutes of
each meeting.
   E.   Task Force: A task force may be appointed for the length of time
necessary to accomplish their mission. The appropriate number of appointees may
be determined at the time of appointment.
   F.   Qualifications: All appointees to city boards, commissions or
committees shall be registered electors, and shall have resided in the city for
a period of at least one year. Task force members may be appointed from inside
and outside the city limits but should be involved in the city in some way,
such as with a business located within the city.
   G.   Removal Of Members: The mayor may remove a member from any city
committee or commission prior to the expiration of the term of office. Reasons
for removal may include, but are not limited to: 1) missing three (3)
consecutive regular meetings of the committee or commission; 2) disruptive or
inappropriate behavior prior to, during, or after committee or commission
meetings which prohibit the advisory body from completing its business in a
timely manner; or 3) not acting in the best interest of the citizens or city.
   H.   Attempts To Influence Members: Members of the council will not attempt
to lobby or influence board, committee, task force or commission members on any
item under their consideration. It is important for the advisory bodies to make
objective recommendations to the council on items before them. Councilors that
attempt to influence board, committee, task force or commission members on an
item may prejudice or hinder their role in reviewing the recommendation as a
member of the council. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See also title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
1-5-11: CONFIDENTIALITY:
   A.   Repeating Embarrassing Comments: Councilors will not repeat by name to
persons not on the council what others have said in a way that might embarrass
fellow councilors.
   B.   Matters Confidential Under Law: Councilors must keep in complete
confidence all written materials and verbal information provided to them on
matters that are confidential under law, to ensure that the city's position is
not compromised. No mention of information read or heard should be made to
anyone other than other councilors, the city manager or city attorney.
   C.   Executive Sessions: If the council, in executive session, provides
opinions or information to staff on proposed terms and conditions for any type
of negotiation whether it be related to property acquisition or disposal, a
proposed, pending or likely claim or litigation, and/or employee negotiations,
all contact with the other parties shall be made by the designated staff
representative handling the negotiations or litigation. A councilor shall not
have any contact or discussion with the other party or its representative
involved with the issue nor communicate any discussion conducted in executive
session.
   D.   Public Statements: All public statements, information or press releases
on confidential matters will be handled by the designated staff or council
spokesperson. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
1-5-12: SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES:
   A.   Temporary Suspension: Any provision of these rules not governed by
state law, the city charter or city code may be temporarily suspended by a
majority vote of the council.
   B.   Amendments: Amendments, deletions or additions to these council rules
shall be by ordinance approved by the city council. (Ord. 600, 12-1-1999)
CHAPTER 6
PERSONNEL RULES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Purpose
1-6-2: Adoption And Amendment Of Rules
1-6-3: Administration Of Rules
1-6-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for
dealing with personnel matters, to attract to municipal service and to retain
the best and most competent persons available, to assure that appointments and
promotions of employees will be based on merit and fitness, and to provide a
reasonable degree of job security for qualified employees. (1996 Code §
2.08.010)
1-6-2: ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF RULES:
Personnel rules shall be adopted and amended by resolution or motion of the
city council. The rules shall provide means to recruit, select, develop, and
maintain an effective and responsive work force, and shall include policies and
procedures for employee hiring and advancements, training and career
development, job classification, salary administration, retirement, fringe
benefits, discipline, discharge, and other related activities. All appointments
and promotions shall be made in accordance with the personnel rules without
regard to sex, race, color, age, religion, political affiliation, national
origin, physical handicap, or marital status; and, furthermore, shall be based
on merit and fitness. (1996 Code § 2.08.020; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-3: ADMINISTRATION OF RULES:
The city manager shall be responsible for:
   A.   Administering all the provisions of this chapter and of the personnel
rules not specifically reserved to the city council.
   B.   Preparing or causing to be prepared and recommending to the city
council personnel rules and revisions and amendments to such rules. (1996 Code
§ 2.08.030)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Filing For City Office
1-7-2: Regulation Of Elections
1-7-3: State Election Laws Adopted
1-7-1: FILING FOR CITY OFFICE:
Candidates for city office file under Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 221 and
249, or any similar successor statute. (2004 Code)
1-7-2: REGULATION OF ELECTIONS:
When the charter of the city and this code do not provide a method of procedure
regarding regular and special elections, state law shall apply. (2004 Code)
1-7-3: STATE ELECTION LAWS ADOPTED:
State election laws are hereby adopted by reference, as provided in Oregon
Revised Statutes, as noted, or any similar successor statutes: title 23
"Elections"; chapter 249, "Candidates, Recall"; chapter 250 "Initiative And
Referendum"; chapter 254 "Conduct Of Elections"; and chapter 260 "Campaign
Finance Regulations, Election Offenses". (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
RECORDS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Records Management Program
1-8-2: Records Officer Designated; Duties
1-8-3: Records Manual Adopted
1-8-4: Records Retention Schedule Adopted
1-8-5: Inspection Of Records
1-8-6: Integrity Of Records
1-8-7: Postponing Release For Legal Opinion
1-8-8: Fees
1-8-1: RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM:
The city council hereby determines that it is in the best interest of the city
to have a records officer and records management program and, by this section,
state such intent and election to participate in the records management program
as defined by the state archivist. (Ord. 616, 6-5-2002)
1-8-2: RECORDS OFFICER DESIGNATED; DUTIES:
Pursuant to the conditions set forth in Oregon Revised Statutes 192.105, each
state agency and political subdivision shall designate a records officer to
coordinate its records management program and to serve as liaison with the
state archivist. The city manager or city manager's designee is hereby
designated as the records officer for the city and shall have the following
duties: (Ord. 616, 6-5-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   To create, maintain, monitor and update the city wide records retention
schedule through coordination with the state archivist and department
supervisors;
   B.   To create a records management manual providing for the proper records
handling, retention and storage for all city departments;
   C.   To assist in establishing storage facilities;
   D.   To keep updated on records law and procedures in order to implement
required procedures and/or educate staff regarding records retention; and
   E.   To report to the state archivist regarding the records management
program as required. (Ord. 616, 6-5-2002)
1-8-3: RECORDS MANUAL ADOPTED:
The city council hereby finds and determines that it is in the best interest of
the city to adopt the "Records Management Manual" as the official city records
management manual in its entirety and continue participation in the records
management program as defined by the state archivist. (Ord. 616, 6-5-2002)
1-8-4: RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE ADOPTED:
The city council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of the
city to adopt the "Records Retention Schedule" document as the official city
records retention schedule in its entirety and to continue participation in the
records management program as defined by the state archivist. The city manager
or his/her designee shall sign the certification of destruction prior to the
destruction of records. (Ord. 616, 6-5-2002)
1-8-5: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
   A.   Right Of Inspection:
      1.   Every person has the right to inspect any nonexempt public record of
the city, subject to reasonable procedures.
      2.   The city shall provide proper and reasonable opportunities for
inspection and examination of the records during usual business hours if such
request does not interfere with the regular discharge of duties.
      3.   The city will not mail a general category of records to any public
or private entity, as it considers such an activity an unreasonable
interference with the regular discharge of its duties as the custodian (in
accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 192.430). (1996 Code § 2.12.040)
   B.   Conditions Of Inspection: Records of any city departments may be
inspected under the following conditions:
      1.   A written request must be received by the city not less than two (2)
days prior to the desired date of inspection.
      2.   The specific record must be identified by type, case or date of the
record.
      3.   The person who will inspect the records must be identified by name.
(1996 Code § 2.12.050)
1-8-6: INTEGRITY OF RECORDS:
Staff shall take reasonable measures to preserve the integrity of city records
and maintain office efficiency and order: (1996 Code § 2.12.060)
   A.   The public records law allows for the inspection of the original
record. (Ord. 573, 8-7-1996; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Before releasing a public record for inspection, a staff member must
review the document to make certain the record does not contain any exempt
information.
   C.   A staff member should remain present while any original public record
is being inspected to ensure the protection of the document.
   D.   Copies may be furnished in lieu of inspection of original document.
(1996 Code § 2.12.060)
1-8-7: POSTPONING RELEASE FOR LEGAL OPINION:
A request for public records disclosure may be postponed if staff needs to
consult with the city attorney's office to obtain legal advice prior to
release. (1996 Code § 2.12.070)
1-8-8: FEES:
   A.   Determination Of Fees:
      1.   Fees shall be established to reimburse the city for its actual cost
in making public records available. Such calculation shall include cost of
summarizing, compiling, or tailoring a record, either by organizing or
transferring the record to a different medium, to meet the person's request.
Actual cost includes the time spent by staff in locating the requested records,
reviewing the records in order to delete exempt material, supervising the
inspection of original documents, and copying the records.
      2.   Staff should estimate charges for responding to a records request
and require prepayment of the estimated charges before acting on a request.
This is advisable as requests may require extensive staff time to locate or
process records. If the actual charges are less than the prepayment, any
overpayment must promptly be refunded.
      3.   Copies of documents provided by a routine file search will be
charged at the standard fee schedule unless subsection A4 of this section
applies.
      4.   In the event that the standard fee schedule does not accurately
reflect the actual cost of providing the records, such as when a request is for
an extraordinary number of documents or requires extra time to locate the
records, actual staff time should be charged. (1996 Code § 2.12.080)
   B.   Fee Schedule: A fee schedule for copies of public records of the city
shall be adopted by the council by resolution. (1996 Code § 2.12.090)
CHAPTER 9
DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Request For Disposal
1-9-2: Notice Of Sale; Reclamation Of Property
1-9-3: Officials And Employees Excluded From Bidding
1-9-4: Conduct Of Sale; Proceeds
1-9-5: City Use Or Donation
1-9-6: Inventory Searches Of Impounded Vehicles And Property
1-9-7: Surplus Personal Property
1-9-1: REQUEST FOR DISPOSAL:
Whenever the chief of police has any property, including money, in his custody,
the ownership of which is unknown, and which is unclaimed for sixty (60) days
after the property came into his custody, he shall report the fact to the city
manager and request authority to dispose of it as provided in this chapter.
(1996 Code § 2.16.010; amd. 2004 Code)
1-9-2: NOTICE OF SALE; RECLAMATION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Action Upon Request: The city council shall act upon the request of the
city manager within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the request.
   B.   Disposal By Public Sale; Notice: If the request is to have the property
disposed of by public sale and if the council approves the request, the city
manager shall post written or printed notice of sale in three (3) public places
within the city, and place an advertisement of such notice in a local newspaper
of general circulation at least ten (10) days before the sale. The notice shall
describe the property, including money, and shall state the time and place of
public sale at which the property may be purchased by the highest bidder. (1996
Code § 2.16.020; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Reclamation Of Property: Until the date of the sale, the property,
including money, may be claimed at the office of the chief of police. If
ownership is proved, the chief of police shall turn the property, including
money, over to the owner and cancel the sale insofar as the particular claimed
property is concerned. (1996 Code § 2.16.020)
1-9-3: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM BIDDING:
Members of the city government, including officials and employees, shall not be
allowed to bid at the sale. (1996 Code § 2.16.030)
1-9-4: CONDUCT OF SALE; PROCEEDS:
The chief of police shall conduct the sale and shall deposit the proceeds
thereof, after deducting the cost of the sale, together with any other money
included in the notice, in the city treasury to the credit of the city general
fund. (1996 Code § 2.16.040)
1-9-5: CITY USE OR DONATION:
In lieu of a sale of the property under the foregoing provisions of this
chapter, the city manager, with the approval of the city council, may transfer
any portion of unclaimed property to the city for use by the city, or may give
the unclaimed property to a worthy charity. (1996 Code § 2.16.050; amd. 2004
Code)
1-9-6: INVENTORY SEARCHES OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES AND PROPERTY:
The city council is hereby authorized to adopt by order or resolution a policy
for inventory searches of impounded vehicles and property. (Ord. 624, 10-8-
2003)
1-9-7: SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Disposition of surplus personal property shall be made at the discretion of the
contracting agency under provisions of the state of Oregon public contracting
code, model rules, or the provisions of this section.
   A.   The contracting agency shall have the authority to declare personal
property owned by the city of Clatskanie to be surplus to the needs of the
city, and shall dispose of surplus property by one of the following methods:
      1.   Sell at public auction. The city may utilize a contracting firm,
approved by the contract review board, for disposition of the property on terms
and conditions contained in a contract approved by the contract review board.
The contracting agency shall give notice of the public auction by posting
notice of the means by which the property will be disposed by advertisement in
a newspaper of general circulation. Sale shall be for cash to the highest
responsible bidder.
      2.   Trade in on the purchase of replacement equipment or related
supplies.
      3.   Sell at a fixed price if doing so will result in substantially
greater net revenue to the city.
      4.   Contract for use, operation or maintenance by one or more private or
public entities. Prior to the approval of such a contract, the contracting
agency shall determine that the contract will promote the economic development
of the city.
   B.   All proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the city's general fund or
appropriate enterprise fund, subject to the terms and conditions of the
contract (if any) approved by the contract review board between the city of
Clatskanie and a firm selected to conduct the auction.
   C.   All personal property sold pursuant to this section shall be sold as is
without any warranty, either express or implied, of any kind, including, but
not limited to, warranties of title or fitness for any purpose. Upon receiving
payment for the personal property from the successful bidder, the contracting
agency or firm conducting an auction shall execute an appropriate bill of sale,
which shall recite that the sale is without warranty, as provided in this
section. (Ord. 638, 3-2-2005)
CHAPTER 10
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE A. CONTRACTS AND PURCHASING
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Adoption Of Oregon Public Contracting Code
1-10A-2: Public Contracts; Designation Of Authority
1-10A-3: Compliance With Oregon Public Contracting Code
1-10A-4: Exemptions From Competitive Procurement
1-10A-5: Contracting Agency Authority
1-10A-6: Public Improvement Contracts
1-10A-7: Public Improvement Contract Negotiation
1-10A-8: Personal Service Contracts
1-10A-9: Purchasing Goods And Services
1-10A-1: ADOPTION OF OREGON PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE:
In the event of a conflict between any provision of the state of Oregon public
contracting code, model rules, this article, or city policies, the provisions
of the state of Oregon contracting code and the model rules shall control.
(Ord. 638, 3-2-2005)
1-10A-2: PUBLIC CONTRACTS; DESIGNATION OF AUTHORITY:
The Clatskanie city council is designated as the local "contract review board"
under the state of Oregon public contracting code. The contract review board
may, from time to time, delegate its powers and responsibilities consistent
with the Oregon public contracting code, the model rules, or this code. The
city manager, or his/her designated agent, is designated as the city's
"contracting agency" for purposes of contracting powers and duties assigned to
the city of Clatskanie as a contracting agency under the state of Oregon public
contracting code or the model rules. (Ord. 638, 3-2-2005)
1-10A-3: COMPLIANCE WITH OREGON PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE:
Except as specifically provided herein, public contracts shall be let by the
city of Clatskanie according to the state of Oregon public contracting code,
including the model rules adopted by the Oregon attorney general as they now
exist and as they may be amended in the future, and city policies and
regulations. Definitions provided by the state of Oregon public contracting
code or the model rules shall apply to city of Clatskanie procurements. (Ord.
638, 3-2-2005)
1-10A-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT:
The following classes of public contracts, goods, and services are hereby
exempted from competitive procurement:
   A.   Any contract exempted by the state of Oregon public contracting code or
model rules.
   B.   Change orders or contract amendments that are reasonably related to the
scope of work under the original contract, up to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). Change orders or other amendments that increase the initial price
of the contract by more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) must be
separately approved by the contract review board.
   C.   Contracts for the purchase of the following: computer equipment and
software; works of art; products and supplies under five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   D.   Purchases made through federal programs, pursuant to Oregon Revised
Statutes 279A.180.
   E.   Purchases made based on state of Oregon price agreements for government
entities and the federal government purchasing alliance for U.S. communities.
   F.   An emergency contract, provided that the contracting agency adheres to
the requirements of Oregon Revised Statutes 279B.080 or 279C.335(5), model
rules, and city policies.
   G.   Any other contract (including sole source and brand name specification
contracts) where the public interest would be promoted by exempting the
contract from the competitive bidding process, provided that the contract
review board adheres to the public contracting code and the model rules in
making the exemption. (Ord. 638, 3-2-2005)
1-10A-5: CONTRACTING AGENCY AUTHORITY:
The contracting agency has contracting authority and responsibilities as
follows to:
   A.   Enter into city contacts for budgeted expenditures and approve change
orders and amendments without additional authorization of the contract review
board, so long as the contract, change order, or amendment does not exceed
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00).
   B.   Recommend that the contract review board approve or disapprove contract
awards in excess of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), or change orders or
amendments to contracts of more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00).
   C.   Consistent with this code, adopt forms, procedures, and administrative
regulations for all city purchases.
   D.   Enter into contracts or permits for local concessions and street
vendors (pursuant to applicable city policy) where the annual amount to be paid
to or by the city is not expected to exceed fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) per year.
   E.   Enter into contracts or procure goods and services in the event of an
emergency in accordance with city policies and procedures adopted by the city
council. (Ord. 638, 3-2-2005; amd. Ord. 699. 9-2-2020)
1-10A-6: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS:
A public improvement contract does not include contracts for minor alterations,
ordinary repair and maintenance of public improvements, contracts for projects
for which no substantial city funds are directly or indirectly used except for
participation that is incidental or related primarily to project design or
inspection, and does not include any other construction contract that is not
defined as a public improvement under state law. A public improvement contract
may be let under the following procedures:
   A.   Public improvements valued at less than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) may be awarded by the contracting agency based on informal quotes.
   B.   Public improvements valued at five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more
but not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) may be awarded by the
contracting agency based on written quotations. At least three (3) written
quotations shall be obtained if reasonably possible.
   C.   The contracting agency shall award a contract under this section to the
prospective contractor whose quote will best serve the interests of the city of
Clatskanie, taking into account price and other applicable factors, such as
experience, specific expertise, availability, project understanding, contractor
capacity, and contractor responsibility. If the contract is not awarded on the
basis of the lowest price, the contracting agency shall make a written record
of the basis for the award.
   D.   Public improvements valued at more than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) may be awarded by the contracting review board after a formal
solicitation of sealed bids in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 279C.
   E.   A procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented to qualify
for the informal contract award procedures provided by this section.
   F.   A public improvement contract let under this section may be amended by
change order in accordance with this article and city policy. (Ord. 638, 3-2-
2005)
1-10A-7: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACT NEGOTIATION:
If bids are solicited for a public improvement contract, and all bids exceed
the budget for the project, the contracting agency may, prior to contract
award, negotiate for a price within the project budget under the following
procedures:
   A.   Negotiations will begin with the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder. If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
begin negotiations with the second lowest responsive, responsible bidder, and
so on.
   B.   Negotiations may include the inclusion of value engineering and other
options to attempt to bring the project cost within the budgeted amount.
   C.   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of the
project is significantly changed from the description in the original bid
documents.
   D.   The contracting agency will adhere to the public records provisions of
Oregon Revised Statutes 279C.340 in applying this section. (Ord. 638, 3-2-2005)
1-10A-8: PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS:
Personal service contracts may be let in compliance with state law and under
the following procedures:
   A.   Personal service contracts shall be used for retaining the services for
the following classes of service contracts. Nothing in this section shall apply
to employment of regular city employees. The contracting agency shall have
discretion to determine whether specific services contracts or additional
classes of services not specifically mentioned below fit within the definition
of personal services. The following shall be considered personal services
contracts:
      1.   Services that require special training or certification, skill,
technical, creative, professional, or communication skills;
      2.   Services that require unique or specialized knowledge, the exercise
of independent judgment, and the quality of service depends on attributes
unique to the service provider;
      3.   Independent contractors generally;
      4.   Architect services;
      5.   Engineering services;
      6.   Land surveyors;
      7.   "Personal services" defined by ORS 279C.100(5);
      8.   "Related services" as defined by ORS 279C.100(8);
      9.   Auditor services;
      10.   City attorney, special counsel, or any other attorney services;
      11.   Code enforcement services;
      12.   Artists, designers, and performers;
      13.   Computer, web development, networking, and programming services;
      14.   Licensed professionals;
      15.   Consultants;
      16.   Property managers; or
      17.   Other service contracts determined by the contracting agency to be
personal service contracts.
   B.   For personal service contracts valued at five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) or less per year, the contracting agency may negotiate and execute
a contract for such services with any qualified contractor of his or her
selection.
   C.   For personal service contracts valued at more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) but not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) per
year, the contracting agency shall solicit at least three (3) prospective
contractors who shall appear to have at least minimum qualifications for the
proposed assignment, notify each prospective contractor in reasonable detail of
the proposed assignment, and determine the prospective contractor's interest
and ability to perform the proposed assignment. Following a review of the
qualifications and interview, where conducted, of the interested prospective
contractors, the contracting agency shall select the prospective contractor,
and shall prepare a personal service contract.
   D.   For personal service contracts valued at more than fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00) per year, the contract review board may award a contract
after a formal solicitation and advertisement for sealed proposals.
   E.   The following criteria should be considered in the evaluation and
selection of contractor for a personal service contract valued at more than
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) per year:
      1.   Specialized experience in the type of work to be performed, and
capacity and capability to perform the work, including any specialized services
within the time limitations for the work.
      2.   Educational and professional record, including past record of
performance on contracts with governmental agencies and private parties with
respect to cost control, quality of work, ability to meet schedules, and
contract administration, where applicable.
      3.   Availability to perform the assignment and familiarity with the area
in which the specific work is located, including knowledge of design or
techniques peculiar to it, where applicable.
      4.   Any other factors relevant to the particular contract.
   F.   The selection procedures described in this section may be waived by the
contracting agency, at his or her discretion, where an emergency exists that
could not have been reasonably foreseen and requires such prompt execution of a
contract to remedy the situation that there is not sufficient time to permit
utilization of the selection procedures.
   G.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the city from
complying with provisions of federal or state law that require the city to
utilize a different selection or contracting procedure. (Ord. 638, 3-2-2005;
amd. Ord. 697, 4-1-2020)
1-10A-9: PURCHASING GOODS AND SERVICES:
The procurement of goods and services not determined to be public improvement
contracts or personal service contracts shall be made under the following
procedures:
   A.   For goods and services valued at less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), the contracting agency may purchase from any qualified vendor
according to city regulations.
   B.   For goods and services valued at more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) but not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the contracting
agency shall attempt to obtain three (3) quotations and document that the
selection made is in the best interest of the city.
   C.   For goods and services valued at more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) but not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), the
contracting agency shall purchase based on written quotations and documentation
that the selection made is in the best interest of the city. At least three (3)
written quotations shall be obtained if reasonably possible.
   D.   For goods and services valued at more than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00), the contract review board shall purchase based on a
recommendation from the contracting agency. The recommendation shall be in
accordance with city policies and Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 279B and
shall document the quotations or proposals received and include a statement why
the selection is in the best interest of the city.
   E.   The city council may by resolution establish and revise purchasing
policies and procedures in compliance with this article and state law. (Ord.
638, 3-2-2005)
ARTICLE B. FUNDS
SECTION:
1-10B-1: Timber And Infrastructure Improvement Fund
1-10B-1: TIMBER AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: The timber and infrastructure improvement fund is
hereby established.
   B.   Vote Of Council: Five (5) members of the city council shall constitute
a two-thirds (2/3) vote for purposes of this section.
   C.   Disposition Of Revenues:
      1.   All revenue from interest on timber harvesting within the city's
watershed property shall be dedicated to the timber and infrastructure
improvement fund, except for timberlands currently dedicated for the benefit of
the Scout Lake recreation area and city cemetery expansion.
      2.   All resources and expenditures shall be budgeted and expended
according to the local budget law 1  and generally accepted accounting
principles. All expenditures shall be classified as either "principal" or
"projects", and each such expenditure category is hereby established with
restrictions.
      3.   The following are allowable expenditures classified as "principal":
         a.   The operations cost of harvesting, building and maintaining roads
for logging, reforestation, maintenance, management of the watershed, and
management of the timber and infrastructure improvement fund.
         b.   Council may loan to the general fund for operating expenses until
property taxes are received.
         c.   Any other loan or transfer from the timber and infrastructure
fund may be approved by council following a two-thirds (2/3) council vote after
a public hearing.
      4.   The following are allowable expenditures classified as "projects":
         a.   Each fiscal year a total of one hundred twenty five thousand
dollars ($125,000.00) or ninety percent (90%) of fund interest earnings on June
30 of the prior fiscal year, whichever is greater, may be expended for capital
projects for the water, sewer, and street (including storm drainage and
sidewalk) systems.
         b.   Any monies remaining in projects at the end of the fiscal year
shall be dedicated to projects for future use.
   D.   Annual Budget Document: The annual budget document shall contain a
twenty (20) year table projecting revenues and expenditures of the timber and
infrastructure improvement fund. (Ord. 622, 11-6-2002; amd. Ord. 638, 3-2-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 294.305 et seq.
CHAPTER 11
CITY CEMETERIES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Rules And Regulations; Council Authority
1-11-2: City Manager Powers And Duties
1-11-3: Operation And Maintenance
1-11-4: Permits For Interment, Removal Or Transfer
1-11-5: Cemetery Fund
1-11-6: Reserves Created
1-11-7: Lots And Graves
1-11-8: Cremains Lots
1-11-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS; COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
The city council shall adopt rules and regulations for the use, control,
operation and management of the city cemeteries. The rules and regulations may
be revised and amended as needed by resolution of the city council, to the
extent not inconsistent with this chapter. (1996 Code § 2.20.010)
1-11-2: CITY MANAGER POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager or his designee shall receive, issue proper receipts for, and
place in appropriate accounts, reserves or funds, all monies due the city from
the sale of lots, services furnished, and all other sources. The city shall
issue in the name of the city, and shall keep complete records of, all matters
pertaining to the cemeteries, including a record of ownership of lots and
graves. (1996 Code § 2.20.020; amd. 2004 Code)
1-11-3: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Authority: The operation and maintenance of the cemeteries shall be the
responsibility of the public works department, subject to the general
supervision of the city manager. Maintenance services may be provided by city
personnel, independent contract, and volunteers, as shall be considered
reasonable and necessary by the city council. (1996 Code § 2.20.030)
   B.   Budget; Enterprise Fund: The city cemeteries shall be operated as a
business enterprise and shall be budgeted as an enterprise fund. (1996 Code §
2.20.040)
1-11-4: PERMITS FOR INTERMENT, REMOVAL OR TRANSFER:
   A.   Compliance With State Statutes, Regulations: The interment, removal and
transfer of bodies shall be governed by the applicable statutes and regulations
of the state. The city manager shall periodically review cemetery records to
assure accurate documentation and compliance with state regulations. (1996 Code
§ 2.20.050)
   B.   Disinterment: Any disinterment may require approval from the state of
Oregon and survivor(s). (Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
1-11-5: CEMETERY FUND:
A separate cemetery fund with supporting ledgers and journals shall account for
all reserve accounts, income and expenditures of the city cemeteries. (1996
Code § 2.20.060)
1-11-6: RESERVES CREATED:
   A.   Endowment Reserve: For the purpose of providing for the perpetual care
and maintenance of lots and graves of city cemeteries, there is created an
"endowment reserve", to be so named. Fifty percent (50%) of all revenues from
the sale of cemetery lots shall be placed in the endowment reserve. The
endowment reserve may be invested in the same manner as is allowed by state law
for public funds. The interest only from investment of the endowment reserve
may be appropriated as a resource of the cemetery operating budget. (1996 Code
§ 2.20.070)
   B.   Expansion Reserve: For the purpose of providing for capital
improvements and expansion of city cemeteries, there is created an "expansion
reserve", to be so named. Revenues from the sale of timber harvested on
cemetery property and such other revenues as the city council may wish to
commit to future improvements may be placed in the expansion reserve. Principal
and interest may be appropriated as the city council deems necessary. (1996
Code § 2.20.080)
1-11-7: LOTS AND GRAVES:
   A.   Prices And Charges: The city council shall, by resolution, establish
the schedules of prices to be charged for lots, graves, grave openings and
other services and privileges; provided, however, that the charges now being
made shall be continued until changed by resolution of the council. (1996 Code
§ 2.20.090)
   B.   Title Conveyance:
      1.   Every conveyance of a lot in the cemeteries shall be by certificate
of right of interment executed by the city manager, but such conveyance shall
only have the effect of giving the perpetual use of a lot for burial, subject
to the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city. (1996 Code § 2.20.100;
amd. Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
      2.   No grave or lot which has been conveyed by the city can be sold,
transferred, assigned or exchanged for other graves except with the consent of
the city manager and upon such terms and conditions as the city manager may
provide. Notice in writing of such consent and the conditions thereof shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the person concerned by the city manager.
(1996 Code § 2.20.100)
   C.   Owner Privileges:
      1.   The owner of a grave in any improved portion of the cemeteries will
be allowed to remove the body from the grave and reinter it in any other grave
in the cemetery which he may own, and will be allowed the price paid for such
relinquished grave.
      2.   The owner of a lot may, with the approval of the city manager, allow
the burial of a friend or any other person in such lot, but to allow such
burial for any compensation is strictly forbidden. (1996 Code § 2.20.110)
      3.   Subdivisions of graves or lots by owners is not allowed; however,
additional cremains may be placed in a lot according to cemetery rules and
regulations. (1996 Code § 2.20.110; amd. Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
      4.   Planting of trees or shrubs shall be prohibited. (1996 Code §
2.20.110)
1-11-8: CREMAINS LOTS:
Areas may be specifically portioned off for the purpose of cremains burials.
(1996 Code § 2.20.120; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established; Membership
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Vacancies And Removals
2-1-4: Organization; Officers
2-1-5: Meetings
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-7: Unenumerated Duties
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP 1 :
   A.   Established: There is hereby reestablished a city planning commission
for the city. (1996 Code § 2.04.010)
   B.   Membership: The commission shall consist of five (5) members who are
not officials or employees of the city. The city manager shall be entitled to
sit with the commission and take part in its discussions, but shall not have
the right to vote. A council member may be appointed in a liaison capacity to
sit with the commission, but shall not have the right to vote. (1996 Code §
2.04.020)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-5-10C of this code.
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
Members of the planning commission shall be appointed by the city council for a
term of four (4) years from the first calendar day of this year, except that
initial appointments of some members shall be for other specified terms in
order to establish an approximately equal expiration of terms each year. (1996
Code § 2.04.030)
2-1-3: VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Appointment For Remainder Of Term: Appointments to fill vacancies shall
be for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   B.   Removal For Misconduct; Hearing: A member may be removed by the city
council after hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance of duty.
   C.   Unexcused Absences; Removal After Hearing: A member who is absent from
three (3) consecutive meetings without an excuse as approved by the planning
commission is rebuttably presumed to be in nonperformance of duty and the city
council shall declare the position vacant unless finding otherwise following
the hearing. (1996 Code § 2.04.040)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS:
   A.   Presiding Members: At its first meeting of each calendar year, the
commission shall elect a chairman and vice chairman to serve one year terms.
(1996 Code § 2.04.050)
   B.   Staff Services; Records: The city manager shall provide a secretary to
the commission, and such other staff and consultation services as may be
appropriate. The secretary shall keep a record of commission meetings. (1996
Code § 2.04.060)
2-1-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of members of the planning commission shall
constitute a quorum. A majority of those members actually voting is necessary
for any action to be taken by the commission.
   B.   Times For Holding Meetings; Open Meetings: The commission shall meet at
least once a month. Meetings of the commission shall be open to the public.
Meetings other than at regularly scheduled times may be announced at a prior
meeting and thereby made a part of the meeting records.
   C.   Calling Special Meetings; Notice: The chair, upon his own action or at
the request of two (2) members of the commission, shall, by giving notice to
members of the commission, call a previously unannounced special meeting of the
commission for a time not earlier than twenty four (24) hours after the notice
is given. Notice of a previously unannounced meeting shall be posted at the
city hall and, to the extent feasible, provided to interested persons at least
twenty four (24) hours prior to the meeting. (1996 Code § 2.04.070)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the powers and duties which are assigned to it by
charter, ordinances or resolutions of the city and general laws of the state.
The duties of the commission shall include the following: (1996 Code §
2.04.080)
   A.   Comprehensive Development Plan: The commission shall:
      1.   Proceed with the preparation of a comprehensive development plan for
the city with due and deliberate consideration of the goals and guidelines of
the land conservation and development commission of the state of Oregon. Upon
completion, recommend the plan to the city council for adoption.
      2.   Subsequent to its adoption, base all its decisions relating to land
use, public facilities, circulation, community appearance, and similar matters
on the plan, and ensure that all matters affecting the development of the city
and its environs including, but not limited to, zoning, subdivisions, signs and
capital improvements shall conform to the plan.
      3.   Recommend to the city council ordinances (and amendments to existing
ordinances) intended to carry out the purposes, principles and proposals
expressed in the comprehensive development plan (such as zoning, subdivision
and the like).
      4.   Review ordinances in existence at the time of adoption of the
comprehensive development plan to ensure that they are not inconsistent with
the plan. (1996 Code § 2.04.080; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Subdivisions: The commission shall review and, subject to appeal, take
final action on proposed subdivisions and major or minor land partitionings.
   C.   Zoning: The commission shall review and, subject to appeal, take final
action on proposed variances, conditional uses or other deviations from the
city zoning ordinance as it now exists or is constituted in the future.
   D.   Studies: The commission shall conduct studies appropriate to an
understanding of area development and its significance to the public interest.
   E.   Capital Improvement Program: The commission shall prepare and
periodically review the city's capital improvement program, ensure that it is
consistent with the comprehensive development plan, and make recommendations as
appropriate to the common council.
   F.   Consult With Public Agencies: The commission shall consult and advise
with public agencies and private citizens on matters concerning the area within
six (6) miles of the city limits and the city's urban growth boundary.
   G.   Other Functions: The commission shall perform such other functions as
the city council may request.
   H.   Promotion Of Public Interest, Health, Safety: The commission shall
study and propose in general such measures as may be advisable for promotion of
the public interest, health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience and welfare
of the city and its environs. (1996 Code § 2.04.080)
2-1-7: UNENUMERATED DUTIES:
This chapter shall be liberally construed. The enumeration of duties in section
2-1-6 of this chapter is not intended to divest the planning commission of any
other duties or powers now imposed or authorized by law. (1996 Code § 2.04.090)
CHAPTER 2
URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Declaration
2-2-2: Authority
2-2-3: Purpose
2-2-4: Findings And Declarations
2-2-5: Establishment Of Agency
2-2-6: Agency Name; Procedures
2-2-1: DECLARATION:
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of declaring that the blighted areas
(as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 457.010[1]) exist in the city, declaring
a need for an urban renewal area to function in the city, and electing to have
the powers of the urban renewal agency exercised by the city council. (Ord.
604, 2-7-2001)
2-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of Oregon Revised Statutes
chapter 457 and more particularly, the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes
457.035 and 457.045. (Ord. 604, 2-7-2001)
2-2-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the urban renewal agency of the
city as an operating agency exercising the powers granted to such an agency by
Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 457. Oregon Revised Statutes 457.035 creates a
public body corporate and politic in each municipality (defined as any county
or city in the state) to be known as the urban renewal agency of the
municipality. The urban renewal agency cannot exercise its powers until or
unless the governing body of the municipality declares that blighted areas (as
defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 457.010[1]) exist in the municipality and
that there is a need for an urban renewal agency to function in the
municipality; and the governing body elects to have the powers exercised in one
of the ways provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 457.045. (Ord. 604, 2-7-2001)
2-2-4: FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS:
   A.   Generally: The city council finds and declares that blighted areas as
defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 457.010(1) exist in the city and that there
is a need for an urban renewal agency to function in the city.
   B.   Conditions Contributing To Blight: The city council finds the following
conditions have contributed to blight in the city as defined by Oregon Revised
Statutes 457.010(1)(b) and (1)(h):
      1.   The transition out of the traditional natural resource base economy,
which has resulted in a loss of timber and wood products jobs. (Source: OEDD)
      2.   The 1993 closure of the Trojan Nuclear Energy Plant, which caused a
loss of over four hundred (400) jobs.
      3.   The flood of 1996, which caused thirty six million dollars
($36,000,000.00) in public and private property loss and/or damage in the city
of Clatskanie and Columbia County. (Source: Col-Pac Economic Development
District)
Unknown damage due to flood such as damage to foundations and supporting
structures for downtown buildings.
      4.   The loss of the Beaver Lumber Company and seventy five (75) jobs due
to the flood of 1996.
      5.   The closure of other businesses due to the flood of 1996 and the
downturn in Clatskanie's economy.
      6.   The following dilapidated structures in the city including, but not
limited to:
         a.   The dock behind the city minimart;
         b.   The old IOOF building; and
         c.   The former Johnson Oil Gas Station that has suspected ground
contamination, which prevents new development.
      7.   Infrastructure inadequacies including, but not limited to:
         a.   No storm water drainage system;
         b.   Uneven and damaged sidewalks in the downtown area;
         c.   High water events cause reverse flow of water through drainage
culvert from the river into the city downtown parking lot; and
         d.   Flood protection is needed from high water events in two (2) or
three (3) areas.
      8.   Riverbank erosion throughout the downtown and the proposed urban
renewal area.
   C.   Agency Powers Exercised By Council: The city council elects to have the
powers of the urban renewal agency exercised by the city council acting as the
urban renewal agency of the city. (Ord. 604, 2-7-2001)
2-2-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF AGENCY:
The urban renewal agency of the city created by Oregon Revised Statutes 457.035
is hereby empowered by this chapter to exercise the powers granted to it by
Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 457. (Ord. 604, 2-7-2001)
2-2-6: AGENCY NAME; PROCEDURES:
The urban renewal agency of the city may be known as the Clatskanie development
agency. Such agency shall meet under the direction of the mayor of the city
within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this chapter to make
provision for meetings and to establish rules and regulations to govern its
procedures. Such agency may delegate such duties and responsibilities as it may
deem proper, prepare a budget and establish financial procedures, enter into
contracts and do all other things necessary to carry out the powers granted to
it by Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 457. Such powers shall be exercised in
accordance with and subject to Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 457 and other
applicable laws. (Ord. 604, 2-7-2001)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Committee Established; Membership
2-3-2: Term Of Office
2-3-3: Vacancies
2-3-4: Presiding Members
2-3-5: Meetings
2-3-6: Duties
2-3-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP 1 :
   A.   Established: There is hereby established a recreation advisory
committee, "the committee".
   B.   Membership; Qualifications:
      1.   The committee shall consist of five (5) members. The city manager
shall be entitled to sit with the committee and take part in its discussions
but shall not have the right to vote.
      2.   All members must be residents of the city. (Res. 95-10, 5-3-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-5-10D of this code.
2-3-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
Members shall be appointed by the city council for terms of two (2) years from
the first calendar day of the year. Initial appointments shall be two (2)
positions for one year and three (3) positions for two (2) years. (Res. 95-10,
5-3-1995)
2-3-3: VACANCIES:
Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the remainder of the unexpired
term. (Res. 95-10, 5-3-1995)
2-3-4: PRESIDING MEMBERS:
The committee may elect a chairman to preside at meetings and hearings. (Res.
95-10, 5-3-1995)
2-3-5: MEETINGS:
The committee shall meet on a regular basis as determined by the committee to
fulfill its duties. Notice of meetings shall be published prior to the meeting.
(Res. 95-10, 5-3-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
2-3-6: DUTIES:
In addition to such other duties as may be prescribed by the city council, the
committee shall:
   A.   Develop a plan for the community to improve recreational and cultural
opportunities in the city.
   B.   Prepare a report to the city council with recommendations.
   C.   Make continuing recommendations to the city council regarding the
implementation of any plan which may be adopted by the city council. (Res. 95-
10, 5-3-1995)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Business License Required
3-1-4: Business License Application Contents
3-1-5: Application Review
3-1-6: Renewal Process
3-1-7: Significant Changes And Updates
3-1-8: Fee Categories And Calculation
3-1-9: Business License Terms
3-1-10: Penalties And Fines
3-1-11: Enforcement Procedures
3-1-12: Summary Suspension
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted, except as otherwise specified, to provide revenue for
municipal purposes and to provide revenue to pay for the necessary expense
required to issue the licenses for and to regulate the businesses licensed.
(Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANNUAL
CONTRACTOR   Means a contractor that operates consistently throughout the year.
LICENSE:
APPLICANT:   Means the agent or owner of the named business applying for a business license.
APPLICATION: Means the form provided by the City to apply for a business license.
             Means any person or their agent distributing goods or providing services within
             the City, including but not limited to contractors, property renters, landlords,
             delivery services, and e-commerce based services. The term "business" does not
             include public bodies and shall include but is not limited to:
             1.   "Childcare provider" means a permanent business providing supervision and
             care for children in a dedicated building for that purpose.
             2.   "Commercial/industrial landlord license" means a person that rents or leases
             commercial or industrial property to others.
             3.   "Farmer's market license" means a license for organizing or otherwise
             operating a seasonal or year-round regularly scheduled market of goods, including
             markets for farm, produce, and art.
             4.   "Farmer's market vendor" means a person that operates a booth at a farmer's
             market for the sale of goods.
             5.   "Garage sale" means a selling of personal goods from a residence for less
             than three (3) days in a thirty (30) day period.
             6.   "Lodging business license" means a business that provides temporary
             overnight rooms for customers, including motels, hotels, and temporary
BUSINESS:    residential lodging businesses.
             7.   "Nonprofit organization" means a bona fide organization with tax exempt
             status.
             8.   "Project contractor license" means a license for a contractor that operates
             in the City for between seven (7) days and six (6) months.
             9.   "Recreational vehicle park license" means a license for a business renting
             spaces for motorhomes, recreational vehicles, or camping sites.
             10.   "Residential landlord license" means a person that rents or leases
             residential property to others.
             11.   "Seasonal retail license" means a license for a retail business that
             operates less than six (6) months in a single year.
             12.   "Seven (7) day contractor license" means a license for a contractor that
             operates in the City for seven (7) or fewer consecutive days.
             13.   "Solicitation license" means a license for a business that conducts door to
             door sales.
             14.   "Temporary residential lodging" means renting rooms within a residential
             building to customers that are not members of the homeowner's family, including
             services provided through Airbnb, Inc. and similar businesses.
CITY:        Means the City of Clatskanie.
IN-CITY      Means a business operating in the City with its headquarters in the City or with
BUSINESS     the City as its primary place of business.
LICENSE:
LICENSE or   Means the authorization granted for the carrying on of a business within the city
BUSINESS     limits.
LICENSE:
LICENSEE:    Means the business as specified and named by the applicant.
NOTICE OF    Means the official notice by the City Manager or his/her agent to a business
VIOLATION:   operating in violation of this chapter.
OPERATE A    Means conducting business transactions within the City limits, including but not
BUSINESS:    limited to the sale of goods, provision of services, or contracting with an e-
             commerce business to deliver goods or services within the City limits.
OUT-OF-CITY  Means a license for a business operating in the City with its headquarters
BUSINESS     outside the City or with the City not as its primary place of business.
LICENSE:
             Means all public and private corporations, including domestic and foreign
PERSON:      corporations, firms, partnerships of every kind, associations, organizations,
             syndicates, joint ventures, societies, and any other group acting as a unit, and
             individuals transacting and carrying on any business within the City.
RENEWAL:     Means the continuation of a business license from the previous year.
REVOCATION
(OF ANY      Means withdrawal of the City's authorization to operate a business in the City.
BUSINESS
LICENSE):
SHORT TERM   Means a license for a business activity lasting seven (7) days or fewer unless
LICENSE:     the license is a seven (7) day contractor license. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-
             31-2020)
 
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to operate a business within the City without obtaining
a business license prior to conducting business, unless otherwise exempt by
City Code §
3-1-3(D).
   B.   A separate license must be obtained for each location at which the
licensed activity is conducted.
   C.   All subcontractors shall be subject to this chapter and shall pay the
license fee as provided in this chapter as their own business, and they are not
privileged to operate under the prime contractor's license.
   D.   The following categories of businesses are exempt from the requirements
to obtain a business license:
      1.   Any business exempt from the requirement to obtain a business
license under the United State Constitution, Constitution of the State of
Oregon, laws of the United States, or statutes of the State of Oregon;
      2.   Childcare providers;
      3.   Garage sales;
      4.   Adult assisted living facilities;
      5.   In-home adult care providers;
      6.   Insurance companies governed by Oregon Revised Statutes 731.840;
      7.   Landowners acting as general contractors for construction on their
own property;
      8.   Newspaper carriers;
      9.   Nonprofit businesses;
      10.   Representatives of public utilities;
      11.   Suppliers and those engaged solely in wholesale selling to licensed
retailers who do not have a place of business in the City;
      12.   The private sale of personal assets such as a personal automobile,
residence, appliance, or other items;
      13.   Towing companies per Oregon Revised Statutes 822.230;
      14.   Farmer's market vendors;
      15.   The operation of a display space, booth, or table maintained for
displaying or selling merchandise at any trade show, convention, festival,
fair, circus, market, flea market, swap meet, or similar event for fewer than
fourteen (14) days in any calendar year; and
      16.   Producers of farm products raised in Oregon, produced by themselves
or their immediate families, who sell such products in the City by themselves
or their immediate families.
   E.   Interpretation: The City Manager has the authority to determine if a
specific business falls within a business license exception described under
subsection (D) above. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-4: BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION CONTENTS:
   A.   A business license application form shall be provided by the City
Manager, which includes the following information:
      1.   Business name, address, and phone number. The business email address
may also be provided, if available;
      2.   Emergency contact information, including a phone number;
      3.   A description of the proposed type of business;
      4.   Number of employees or rental units, if applicable;
      5.   Building owner(s) name, address, and phone number. The owner email
address may also be provided, if available; and
      6.   Any additional information determined by the City Manager as
beneficial for the effective administration of business licenses. (Ord. 698, 8-
5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-5: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Review Criteria: The City Manager shall not approve a business license
application, unless the City Manager finds that:
      1.   The business is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the
City Code and State of Oregon law;
      2.   The application is complete;
      3.   The application is free of errors, false, or misleading material
information;
      4.   The application is accompanied by the applicable fee; and
      5.   All outstanding fees, penalties, and fines due to the City under any
code provision have been paid.
   B.   The City Manager may request additional documentation or information to
determine the qualification of the applicant for a business license.
   C.   If an applicant fails to respond to a request for additional documents
or information within thirty (30) days or otherwise fails to pursue approval of
an application for thirty (30) days, the application is deemed withdrawn. No
fees shall be refunded.
   D.   A person whose application for any business license has been denied or
whose license has been revoked two times within one (1) year, or who has a
total of four (4) denials or revocations, shall be disqualified from applying
for a license for a period of two (2) years from the date of the last
revocation or denial.
   E.   After the affirmative findings in subsection (A) and subsection (B)
above, the City Manager shall deliver a business license to the applicant.
   F.   The City Manager shall provide written notice of denial of an
application and notice of the opportunity to appeal as described under City
Code §
3-1-11(D).
   G.   City shall not be liable for costs associated with any incorrect
information provided by the applicant in an application. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020,
eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-6: RENEWAL PROCESS:
   A.   A business with a license from a previous year may renew its business
license for the subsequent year using the same or similar form described in
City Code §
3-1-4.
   B.   Businesses shall not be subject to a fine or penalty for operating
until February 1 if the business had a valid license obtained in the previous
year. Thereafter, the business shall be subject to all fines accrued after
February 1 of that year.
   C.   Abandonment of a business license:
      1.   A business license shall be deemed abandoned if a business fails to
renew a business license by April 1 of that year.
      2.   A business that abandons a license must obtain a new business
license before resuming business activities and remains subject to all accrued
fines, penalties, and late fees described under City Code §
3-1-10.
   D.   An application to renew a business license shall contain the same
information required under City Code §
3-1-4 above.
   E.   Applications to renew a business license shall be subject to the same
fees as described in City Code §
3-1-8 below.
   F.   The City Manager shall use the same review criteria for a renewal of a
business license and makes the findings described in City Code §
3-1-5 above. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-7: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES AND UPDATES:
   A.   Significant Changes: The following significant changes in an existing,
licensed business require a business to apply for a new business license
application:
      1.   Change in physical location of the business;
      2.   Change in more than fifty percent (50%) ownership of the business;
      3.   Change in primary business activity; or
      4.   Change in business name.
   B.   For an application associated with significant change, the City Manager
shall prorate the associated fee for the resulting business license described
under City Code §
3-1-8 for the reminder of the year.
   C.   A business must notify the City within thirty (30) days of changes to
any other application information described in City Code §
3-1-4, but providing this information will not require a new business license
or fee unless the changes are specifically identified in subsection (A) above.
(Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-8: FEE CATEGORIES AND CALCULATION:
   A.    All fees for business licenses shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
   B.   The City Council shall allocate fees to the following categories of
businesses:
      1.   In-City Businesses: a base fee plus additional fee based on the
total number of full and part time employees. Only a base fee will be charged
for businesses with zero to five (0 to 5) employees. The base fee plus an
additional fee will be charged for businesses with six to ten (6 to 10)
employees and businesses with eleven (11) or more employees.
      2.   Out-of-City business: a base fee.
      3.   Commercial/industrial landlords: a base fee.
      4.   Residential landlords: a base fee for each unit.
      5.   Contractors:
         a.   Annual contractor license: a base fee.
         b.   Project contractor license: a base fee.
         c.   Seven (7) day contractor license: a base fee.
      6.   Manufactured home park: a base fee plus a per unit (number of pads)
fee.
      7.   Lodging business license: a base fee plus a per unit (number of
rooms) fee.
      8.   Recreational vehicle park license: a base fee plus a per unit
(number of pads) fee.
      9.   Seasonal retail license: a base fee.
      10.   Farmer's market license: a base fee.
      11.   Short term license: a base fee.
      12.   Solicitation license: a base fee.
   C.   Fees will be determined based on the numbers of pads, employees, or
other statuses as of the date of submission of the application for that year.
   D.   A business will be subject to the most specific single fee category
applicable to the business.
   E.   The City Manager has the authority to determine which fee category is
applicable to a specific business based on the description in the application.
   F.   The City Manager shall prorate any business license fee for any new
business commencing business operations on or after January 1. The City Manager
shall not prorate fees associated with renewals of prior business licenses
under City Code §
3-1-6(E).
   G.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be taken or construed as
vesting any right in any license as a contract obligation on the part of the
City as to the amount of the fee under this chapter. New, additional, or
altered fees or taxes under this chapter or this code may be added, increased,
or decreased at any time by the City. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-9: BUSINESS LICENSE TERMS:
   A.   The effective dates of business licenses will commence on January 1
each year (or the date of approval in the case of a new license) and terminate
at eleven fifty-nine o’clock (11:59 P.M.) on December 31 each year, except:
      1.   Project contractor licenses shall terminate at the conclusion of the
specific project requiring the license;
      2.   Seven (7) day contractor licenses shall terminate at the end of the
requested seven (7) day period of operation;
      3.   Seasonal retail licenses shall terminate at the end of the
consecutive six (6) month period of operation; and
      4.   Short term licenses shall terminate at the end of requested seven
(7) day period of operation.
   B.   Display of Business License:
      1.   For businesses at a fixed location, the business license shall be
stored and displayed publicly at the place of business in a location easily
seen from areas accessible to customers of the business.
      2.   For businesses not at a fixed location, the business license shall
be carried at all times by the licensed business while engaged in the activity.
Upon request, the licensed business shall show the license to a person with
whom he or she is dealing as part of the licensed activity or to an officer of
the City.
      3.   A business license for a vehicle-based business shall be displayed
on the vehicle as required by the City Manager.
   C.   The City Manager may place additional conditions on a business license
as a condition of maintaining the license required by State or local laws.
   D.   A licensee may not advertise for business in any name other than the
name for which a license is held. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-10: PENALTIES AND FINES:
   A.   General Violations: A business that (1) fails to obtain a license prior
to conducting business, (2) intentionally makes false statements on an
application, (3) continues to operate a business despite the revocation of a
business license, or (4) otherwise violates any requirement of this chapter
shall subject the business to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
Each day constitutes a separate violation.
   B.   Failure to Renew: Failure to renew a business license by February 1
shall subject the business to a fine of ten percent (10%) of the applicable fee
category for each month the business is in violation.
   C.   The fines described in subsections (A) and (B) are in addition to any
other penalty or fine located in this code, including the Penalty for Code
Violations described under City Code §
1-4-1.
   D.   The City Manager has discretion to reduce or waive fines and penalties
for violations of this chapter described in subsection (A), subsection (B), and
subsection (C) based on substantial compliance, mitigating circumstances, a
history of compliance, or prompt corrective action in response to a notice of
violation. (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-11: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Right of Entry: The City may investigate and examine all places of
business licensed or subject to license under this chapter at any reasonable
time for the purpose of determining whether such place of business is complying
with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Notice of Violation: Upon learning of a violation of this chapter, the
City Manager shall mail a notice of violation to the business. The notice of
violation shall state that the license will be revoked or, in the case of
failure to obtain a license, fines may be imposed in ten (10) days without
further remedial action and any applicable remedial measures to regain
compliance. A notice of violation may also be emailed or hand delivered to a
business or its agent in addition to mailing.
   C.   Each violation of this chapter shall operate as a separate and distinct
violation.
   D.   Appeals: After a business receives a notice of violation, denial of an
application, or notice of summary suspension, the business shall have the right
of appeal.
      1.   A written notice of appeal to the City Council shall be filed with
the City Manager within ten (10) days after the notice of violation is mailed
or the applicant receives a denial of an application.
      2.   A business may continue operating during a pending appeal to the
City Council.
      3.   The City Council shall hear and make a determination with regard to
the appeal at its next regular meeting.
      4.   The decision of the City Council on such appeal shall be final and
conclusive.
   E.   Revocation of License: A business license shall be deemed revoked if:
      1.   A business fails to correct any violation to the satisfaction of the
City Manager within ten (10) days after the notice is mailed to current address
listed in City records or best-known address reasonably obtained by the City;
or
      2.   The City Council affirms the decision of the City Manager after
appeal and review.
   F.   Effect of Revocation of a License:
      1.   The City Manager shall notify the business in writing when a
business license has been revoked.
      2.   When the business receives notice that its license has been revoked,
it must immediately cease operating that business within the City limits.
   G.   Judicial enforcement: After ten (10) days following the mailing of the
notice of violation or after the final decision following an appeal to the City
Council, and failure of the business regain compliance with this chapter, the
City Manager may seek judicial enforcement of this chapter.
      1.   The City may sue in any court of competent jurisdiction to obtain a
judgment to enforce collection of any unpaid license fee, any penalty, or any
fine due under this chapter.
      2.   The City may seek an injunction prohibiting a person from engaging
in any unlicensed business.
      3.   In any action or suit authorized by this chapter, the City, if it
prevails, shall recover a reasonable attorney fee to be set by the court, in
addition to its costs and disbursements, for trial and any subsequent appeals.
(Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
3-1-12: SUMMARY SUSPENSION:
   A.   Upon determining that a licensed activity presents an immediate danger
to person or property, the City Manager may summarily suspend the license for
the activity.
   B.   The suspension takes effect immediately upon notice of the summary
suspension being received by the licensee, or being delivered to the licensee's
business address as stated on the licensee's application for the license being
suspended. Such a notice shall state the reason for the suspension and inform
the licensee of the provisions for appeal under City Code
3-1-11(D).
   C.   The City may continue a suspension as long as the reason for the
suspension exists or until the City Council provides a determination on appeal
regarding the suspension under City Code
3-1-11(D). (Ord. 698, 8-5-2020, eff. 8-31-2020)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Statutes Adopted; Conflicting Provisions
3-2-2: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1D-1 of this code.
3-2-1: STATUTES ADOPTED; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   City Policy: The policy of the city is that city ordinances pertaining
to the regulation of alcoholic liquor and controlled substances shall be in
conformance with Oregon statutes in effect as to these matters, and as such,
any provision contained in a city ordinance shall apply in the same manner that
the law is applied by the state including all definitions and amendments.
   B.   Statute Prevails: If an ordinance or provision thereof, of the city, is
in conflict with Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 471 or chapter 475, the state
statute shall prevail.
   C.   Compliance With Statute Required: No person shall engage in any
activity violating Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 471 or chapter 475. (1996
Code § 5.08.010)
3-2-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Except as may be limited by charter, violation of Oregon Revised Statutes
provisions made offenses against the city are punishable to the same extent as
provided in the state statutes. (1996 Code § 5.08.020)
CHAPTER 2A
MARIJUANA TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Purpose
3-2A-2: Definitions
3-2A-3: Levy Of Tax
3-2A-4: Deductions
3-2A-5: Seller Responsible For Payment Of Tax
3-2A-6: Penalties And Interest
3-2A-7: Failure To Report And Remit Tax; Determination Of Tax By Director
3-2A-8: Appeal
3-2A-9: Refunds
3-2A-10: Actions To Collect
3-2A-11: Confidentiality
3-2A-12: Audit Of Books, Records Or Persons
3-2A-13: Forms And Regulations
3-2A-1: PURPOSE:
For the purposes of this chapter, every person who sells marijuana, medical
marijuana or marijuana infused products in the city of Clatskanie is exercising
a taxable privilege. The purpose of this chapter is to impose a tax upon the
retail sale of marijuana, medical marijuana, and marijuana infused products.
(Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DIRECTOR: The director of finance for the city of Clatskanie or his/her
designee.
GROSS TAXABLE SALES: The total amount received in money, credits, property of
other consideration from sales of marijuana, medical marijuana and marijuana
infused products that is subject to the tax imposed by this chapter.
MARIJUANA: All parts of the plant of the cannabis family Moraceae, whether
growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its resin, as may be defined by Oregon Revised Statutes as they currently
exist or may from time to time be amended. It does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination.
OREGON MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROGRAM: The office within the Oregon health authority
that administers the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 475.300 through
475.346, the Oregon medical marijuana act, and all policies and procedures
pertaining thereto.
PERSON: Natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or any
group or combination acting as a unit, including the United States Of America,
the state of Oregon and any political subdivision thereof, or the manager,
lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
PURCHASE OR SALE: The retail acquisition or furnishing for consideration by any
person of marijuana within the city and does not include the acquisition or
furnishing of marijuana by a grower or processor to a seller.
REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARDHOLD: A person who has been diagnosed by an
attending physician with a debilitating medical condition and for whom the use
of medical marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person's
debilitating medical condition, and who has been issued a registry
identification card by the Oregon health authority.
RETAIL SALE: The transfer of goods or services in exchange for any valuable
consideration and does not include the transfer or exchange of goods or
services between a grower or processor and a seller.
SELLER: Any person who is required to be licensed or has been licensed by the
state of Oregon to provide marijuana or marijuana infused products to
purchasers for money, credit, property or other consideration.
TAX: Either the tax payable by the seller or the aggregate amount of taxes due
from a seller during the period for which the seller is required to report
collections under this chapter.
TAXPAYER: Any person obligated to account to the finance director for taxes
collected or to be collected, or from whom a tax is due, under the terms of
this chapter. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-3: LEVY OF TAX:
   A.   There is hereby levied and shall be paid a tax by every seller
exercising the taxable privilege of selling "marijuana", medical marijuana, and
marijuana infused products as defined in this chapter.
   B.   The amount of tax levied shall be established by a city council
resolution.
   C.   All tax collected shall be credited to the city's general fund. (Ord.
674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-4: DEDUCTIONS:
The following deductions shall be allowed against sales received by the seller
providing marijuana:
   A.   Refunds of sales actually returned to any purchaser.
   B.   Any adjustments in sales which amount to a refund to a purchaser,
providing such adjustment pertains to the actual sale of marijuana or marijuana
infused products and does not include any adjustments for other services
furnished by a seller. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-5: SELLER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Every seller shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the end of each calendar quarter (in the months of April, July, October and
January) make a return to the director, on forms provided by the city,
specifying the total sales subject to this chapter and the amount of tax
collected under this chapter. The seller may request or the director may
establish shorter reporting periods for any seller if the seller or director
deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax and the director
may require further information in the return relevant to payment of the tax. A
return shall not be considered filed until it is actually received by the
director.
   B.   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
shall be remitted to the director. Payments received by the director for
application against existing liabilities will be credited toward the period
designated by the taxpayer under conditions that are not prejudicial to the
interest of the city. A condition considered prejudicial is the imminent
expiration of the statute of limitations for a period or periods.
   C.   Nondesignated payment shall be applied in the order of the oldest
liability first, with the payment credited first toward any accrued penalty,
then to interest, then to the underlying tax until the payment is exhausted.
Crediting of a payment toward a specific reporting period will be first applied
against any accrued penalty, then to interest, then to the underlying tax. If
the director, in his or her sole discretion, determines that an alternative
order of payment application would be in the best interest of the city in a
particular tax or factual situation, the director may order such a change. The
director may establish shorter reporting periods for any seller if the director
deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax. The director also
may require additional information in the return relevant to payment of the
liability. When a shorter return period is required, penalties and interest
shall be computed according to the shorter return period. Returns and payments
are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All taxes
collected by sellers pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for the
account of the city until payment is made to the director. A separate trust
bank account is not required in order to comply with this provision.
   D.   Every seller required to remit the tax imposed in this chapter shall be
entitled to retain five percent (5%) of all taxes due to defray the costs of
bookkeeping and remittance.
   E.   Every seller must keep and preserve in an accounting format established
by the director records of all sales made by the dispensary or business whose
primary source of revenue is obtained from marijuana or marijuana infused
products, and such other books or accounts as may be required by the director.
Every seller must keep and preserve for a period of three (3) years all such
books, invoices and other records. The director shall have the right to inspect
all such records at all reasonable times. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-6: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   A.   Any seller who fails to remit any portion of any tax imposed by this
chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of
the amount of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax.
   B.   Any seller who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a
period of sixty (60) days following the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent, shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%)
of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the penalty
first imposed.
   C.   If the director determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due
under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in subsections A and B of this section.
   D.   In addition to the penalties imposed, any seller who fails to remit any
tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one percent (1%)
per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   E.   Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section, shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.
   F.   All sums collected pursuant to the penalty provisions in subsections A
and C of this section shall be distributed to the city of Clatskanie general
fund to offset the costs of auditing and enforcement of this tax. (Ord. 674,
10-29-2014)
3-2A-7: FAILURE TO REPORT AND REMIT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY DIRECTOR:
If any seller should fail to make, within the time provided in this chapter,
any report of the tax required by this chapter, the director shall proceed in
such manner as deemed best to obtain facts and information on which to base the
estimate of tax due. As soon as the director shall procure such facts and
information as is able to be obtained, upon which to base the assessment of any
tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any seller, the director shall
proceed to determine and assess against such seller the tax, interest and
penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such determination is made, the
director shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by having it served
personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the seller so assessed at the last known place of address. Such
seller may make an appeal of such determination to the city manager. If no
appeal is filed, the director's determination is final and the amount thereby
is immediately due and payable. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-8: APPEAL:
Any seller aggrieved by any decision of the director with respect to the amount
of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city council to
be filed within thirty (30) days of the serving or mailing of the determination
of tax due. The city council shall hear and consider any records and evidence
presented bearing upon the director's determination of amount due, and make
findings affirming, reversing or modifying the determination. The findings of
the city council shall be final and conclusive, and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any
amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of
notice. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-9: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the
city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in subsection B of this
section, provided a claim in writing, stating under penalty of perjury the
specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the director
within one year of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished
by the director.
   B.   The director shall have twenty (20) calendar days from the date of
receipt of a claim to review the claim and make a determination in writing as
to the validity of the claim. The director shall notify the claimant in writing
of the director's determination. Such notice shall be mailed to the address
provided by claimant on the claim form. In the event a claim is determined by
the director to be a valid claim, in a manner prescribed by the director a
seller may claim a refund, or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously collected or
received. The seller shall notify director of claimant's choice no later than
fifteen (15) days following the date director mailed the determination. In the
event claimant has not notified the director of claimant's choice within the
fifteen (15) day period and the seller is still in business, a credit will be
granted against the tax liability for the next reporting period. If the seller
is no longer in business, a refund check will be mailed to claimant at the
address provided in the claim form.
   C.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant established the right by written records showing entitlement to such
refund and the director acknowledged the validity of the claim. (Ord. 674, 10-
29-2014)
3-2A-10: ACTIONS TO COLLECT:
   A.   All violations of this chapter are punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code is a violation of this chapter for any seller or other
person to:
      1.   Fail or refuse to comply as required herein;
      2.   Fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made;
      3.   Fail or refuse to permit inspection of records;
      4.   Fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data
required by the director;
      5.   Render a false or fraudulent return or claim; or
      6.   Fail, refuse or neglect to remit the tax to the city by the due
date.
   B.   The remedies provided by this section are not exclusive and shall not
prevent the city from exercising any other remedy available under the law, nor
shall the provisions of this chapter prohibit or restrict the city or other
appropriate prosecutor from pursuing criminal charges under state law or city
ordinance. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-11: CONFIDENTIALITY:
Except as otherwise required by law, it shall be unlawful for the city, any
officer, employee or agent to divulge, release or make known in any manner any
financial information submitted or disclosed to the city under the terms of
this chapter. Nothing in this section shall prohibit:
   A.   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any person who is
operating a licensed establishment from which marijuana is sold or provided; or
   B.   The disclosure of general statistics in a form which would not reveal
an individual seller(s) financial information; or
   C.   Presentation of evidence to the court, or other tribunal having
jurisdiction in the prosecution of any criminal or civil claim by the director
or an appeal from the director for amount due the city under this chapter; or
   D.   The disclosure of information when such disclosure of conditionally
exempt information is ordered under public records law procedures; or
   E.   The disclosure of records related to a business' failure to report and
remit the tax when the report is in arrears for over six (6) months or the tax
exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The city council expressly finds and
determines that the public interest in disclosure of such records clearly
outweighs the interest in confidentiality under Oregon Revised Statutes 192.501
(5). (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-12: AUDIT OF BOOKS, RECORDS OR PERSONS:
The city, for the purpose of determining the correctness of any tax return, or
for the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, may examine or may cause to be
examined by an agent or representative designated by the city for that purpose,
any books, papers, records, or memoranda, including copies of seller's state
and federal income tax return, bearing upon the matter of the seller's tax
return. All books, invoices, accounts and other records shall be made available
within the city limits and be open at any time during regular business hours
for examination by the director or an authorized agent of the director. If any
taxpayer refuses to voluntarily furnish any of the foregoing information when
requested, the director may immediately seek a subpoena from the Columbia
County justice court to require that the taxpayer or a representative of the
taxpayer attend a hearing or produce any such books, accounts and records for
examination. (Ord. 674, 10-29-2014)
3-2A-13: FORMS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The director is hereby authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate
rules and regulations to aid in the making of returns, the ascertainment,
assessment and collection of said medical marijuana tax and in particular and
without limiting the general language of this chapter, to provide for:
      1.   A form of report on sales and purchases to be supplied to all
vendors;
      2.   The records which sellers providing marijuana and marijuana infused
products are to keep concerning the tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 674, 10-
29-2014)
CHAPTER 3
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose; Restrictions
3-3-2: Definition
3-3-3: License Required; Compliance With Chapter
3-3-4: License Fees; Payment
3-3-5: License Issuance
3-3-6: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Generate Revenue: This chapter is enacted, except as otherwise
specified in this chapter, to provide revenue for municipal purposes and to
provide revenue to pay for the necessary expense required to regulate the
amusement devices licensed.
   B.   License Fees Independent: The license fees levied by this chapter shall
be independent and separate from any license or permit fees required of any
person to engage in any business by any ordinance of the city as of or after
the effective date hereof.
   C.   Illegal Operation: The levy or collection of an amusement device
license fee shall not be construed to be a license or permit of the city to the
person operating the amusement device to conduct operation of the amusement
device in the event such operation shall be unlawful, illegal, or prohibited by
the laws of the state of Oregon or the United States or ordinances of the city.
(1996 Code § 5.12.010)
3-3-2: DEFINITION:
"Amusement device" means a video lottery game terminal, including, but not
limited to, any electronic, mechanical- electronic or nonmechanical device
that:
   A.   Displays a ticket through the use of a video display screen;
   B.   Is available for consumer play upon the payment of consideration;
   C.   Determines winners through the element of chance; and
   D.   Displays possible prizes on the device. (2004 Code)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
No person shall operate a coin operated amusement device in the city without
first having obtained the license therefor, as provided in this chapter, and
without having first complied with any and all applicable provisions of this
chapter. (1996 Code § 5.12.020)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEES; PAYMENT:
   A.   Fees Established: Each person operating one or more coin operated
amusement devices shall pay a monthly fee for each device in accordance with a
fee schedule adopted by resolution of the council. (1996 Code § 5.12.030)
      1.   Annual Payment In Advance:
         a.   "Payment in advance" means payment prior to the date first due,
which is January 1 for annual payments.
         b.   If the amusement devices owned by the business plus the state
owned video lottery type games used in the business equal more than eight (8)
machines, the business owner may choose to pay annually in advance a maximum
amount indicated as the "cap" in the fee resolution. If this amount is not paid
in advance, the business owner must pay for each machine per month as if there
were no cap. If these machines equal eight (8) or less, the business owner will
receive a ten percent (10%) deduction if paid annually in advance.
         c.   If the number of amusement devices owned by a vending machine
business and placed in the city equals more than eight (8) machines, the vendor
may choose to pay annually in advance a maximum amount indicated as the "cap"
in the fee resolution. If this amount is not paid in advance, the vendor must
pay for each machine per month as if there were no cap. If these machines equal
eight (8) or less, the vendor will receive a ten percent (10%) deduction if
paid annually in advance. The vendor must provide the city with a list of the
machines as well as the location.
      2.   Temporary Use Or Location: An amusement device owned and/or operated
by a professional carnival, circus or other temporary operation must pay a
minimum of one month's fee per coin operated amusement device. (Ord. 591, 12-3-
1997)
   B.   Delinquency; Penalty:
      1.   Any license fee not paid within thirty (30) days of the due date
shall be delinquent.
      2.   In the event any person hereby required to obtain a license shall
fail or neglect to obtain the same before it shall become delinquent, the city
recorder shall collect, upon payment therefor, in addition thereto, a penalty
of ten percent (10%) of the fee therefor for each calendar month or fraction
thereof that the same shall be delinquent.
   C.   City Liability; Authority To Change Fees:
      1.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be taken or construed as
vesting any right in any license as a contract obligation on the part of the
city as to the amount of the fee under this chapter.
      2.   The fees provided for in this chapter may be increased or decreased
and additional or other fees provided for and levied in any and all instances
at any time by the city. (1996 Code § 5.12.030)
3-3-5: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Upon approval of the application by the city council and payment of the
required fee, the city recorder will open the applicant's account in a suitable
ledger. (1996 Code § 5.12.040)
3-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   False Statements; Noncompliance: It is unlawful for any person to
wilfully make any false or misleading statement for the purpose of determining
the amount of any license fee provided for in this chapter, or to fail or
refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter to be complied with
or observed, or to fail or refuse to pay, before it is delinquent, any license
fee or penalty required by this chapter to be paid by any such person. (1996
Code § 5.12.050)
   B.   Failure To Pay License Fees And Penalties:
      1.   Any machine owner who is delinquent in payment of fees and/or
penalties required by this chapter shall be subject to any or all of the
following: rendering the machine inoperable either by padlocking, shutting off
power to it or some other means; confiscation of the machine and payment of
storage and handling fees; or confiscation of all coinage and/or bills in the
machine as security against the delinquent amount, until the amount owed the
city, including penalties and interest, is paid.
      2.   If the machine is confiscated and the vendor wants to recover it and
will not replace it in a Clatskanie business, a prorated license fee will be
assessed according to the length of time it has been in use in the city, and
when this fee, plus storage, and handling fees are paid, the machine can be
returned. If the fees are not paid and the confiscated machine is not recovered
by the owner within six (6) months, the machine will become the property of the
city and may be disposed of as the city may see fit. (Ord. 591, 12-3-1997)
   C.   Prosecution And Payment Unrelated: The conviction of any person for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall not operate to relieve
such person from paying any fee or penalty thereupon for which such person
shall be liable, nor shall the payment of any such fee be a bar to or prevent
prosecution in the municipal court of any complaint for the violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter. (1996 Code § 5.12.050)
   D.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, be punished by a
fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). Each day any person shall operate
each machine for which a license is hereby required without having paid the
license fee shall constitute a separate offense. (1996 Code § 5.12.050; amd.
2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose; Findings
3-4-2: Definition
3-4-3: Registration Statement And Information
3-4-4: Registration Fee; Exception (Rep. by Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
3-4-5: Issuance, Denial Or Revocation Of Certificate
3-4-6: Form Of Certificate; Term
3-4-7: Prohibited Acts
3-4-8: Consent To Enter Onto Real Property
3-4-9: No Solicitation Sign
3-4-10: Evidentiary Matters
3-4-1: PURPOSE; FINDINGS:
   A.   The city council finds it necessary and desirable to regulate
solicitation in order to provide an effective opportunity for the occupants of
residential property to protect themselves from the unwanted disruption of the
peaceful and quiet enjoyment of their property and right to privacy caused by
solicitors, and to provide a means by which those solicitors who choose to
intrude upon and disrupt that quiet enjoyment of property can be held
accountable for such violation.
   B.   The city council has also been advised that based upon actual
experiences in Clatskanie and in the opinion of crime prevention specialists
nationwide, there is a direct connection between residential burglaries and
unscrupulous solicitors.
   C.   The creation of registration requirements will enable city officials
and citizens of the city to become informed concerning the individuals and
organizations who choose to solicit in the city.
   D.   This chapter also provides a mechanism for discouraging, through the
civil infraction process, those solicitors who avoid registration, and provides
a mechanism to identify and discourage those who would use solicitation as a
front for criminal activity. (1996 Code § 5.16.010)
3-4-2: DEFINITION:
"Solicit" and "solicitation" means the entry onto real property used for
residential purposes by a person for the purpose of communication with an
occupant of the property, whether the communication is verbal, visual or in
writing, for commercial purposes. (1996 Code § 1.04.435)
3-4-3: REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND INFORMATION:
   A.   Solicitor Not Asking For Money: A solicitor that does not ask for money
is not required to obtain a certificate of registration with the city, but such
solicitor shall otherwise comply with the regulations of this chapter. (Ord.
644, 3-1-2006)
   B.   Information Required: Any person required to obtain a certificate of
registration with the city and desires to solicit at five (5) or more dwelling
units in the city during any eight (8) hour period shall file with the city
manager a registration statement, on forms provided by the city manager,
containing the following information:
      1.   The name of the person registering and desiring to solicit.
      2.   Whether the person registering is a natural person, partnership,
corporation or association, and:
         a.   If a natural person, the business or residence address and
telephone number of the person.
         b.   If a partnership, the names of all partners and the principal
business address and telephone number of each partner. (1996 Code § 5.16.040;
amd. Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
         c.   If a corporation, the person registering must state whether it is
organized under the laws of Oregon or is a foreign corporation, and must show
the mailing address, business location, telephone number, and the registered
agent of the corporation, and the names of all officers and directors or
trustees of the corporation, and, if a foreign corporation, the place of
incorporation.
         d.   If an association, the registration statement shall show the
association's principal business address and telephone number, if any, and
shall show names and principal business or residence addresses and telephone
numbers of all members of the association, unless they exceed ten (10) in
number, in which case the application shall so state and the person registering
may alternatively list the names and principal business or residence addresses
and telephone numbers of the officers and directors or trustees of the
association. If the association is part of a multistate organization or
association, the mailing address and business location of its central office
shall be given. (1996 Code § 5.16.040; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the organization if the person
registering is a partnership, association or corporation and an explanation
from all persons of the intended purpose of the solicitation.
      4.   The name, mailing address and telephone number of all individuals
who will be in direct charge or control of the solicitation and the number of
persons who will be actually involved in the solicitation activity. One of the
named individuals shall be designated to receive any notice or communication
from the city or the public concerning the solicitation activities.
      5.   A statement that if a certificate of registration is granted, such
certificate will not be used or represented to be an endorsement by the city or
any of its officers or employees.
      6.   An explanation of the reasons, if the person registering is unable
to provide any of the foregoing information, why such information is not
available.
   C.   Public Record: The registration statement and information submitted
with the registration statement are public records available for public
inspection during normal city business hours. (1996 Code § 5.16.040; amd. Ord.
644, 3-1-2006)
3-4-4: REGISTRATION FEE; EXCEPTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
3-4-5: ISSUANCE, DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Review Of Registration; Decision:
      1.   After a review of the registration statement to determine its
compliance with this chapter, and within ten (10) working days of the receipt
of the registration statement, the city manager shall either issue a
certificate of registration, in the form provided by this chapter, or notify
the person registering that the registration statement does not comply with the
chapter requirements, and specifically point out what information or
explanation has not been furnished that is required before a certificate of
registration can be issued.
      2.   If the person registering is engaged in an activity for which a
business license is required by this code, proof of a valid business license
shall be furnished prior to the issuance of a certificate.
   B.   Revocation; Notice; Hearing:
      1.   A certificate of registration shall be revoked by the city manager
if a registered person, or one or more solicitors engaged on behalf of that
person, are convicted or plead guilty or no contest to a cumulative minimum of
three (3) violations occurring within any thirty (30) calendar day period in
connection with or on behalf of the solicitation of the registered person. A
certified copy of the municipal court record of plea or conviction is
conclusive proof that a violation has occurred. The period of revocation shall
be for sixty (60) calendar days, during which the person may not receive a
certificate of registration.
      2.   Within five (5) working days of receipt of notification that a
registered person has been convicted, plead guilty or no contest to a third
violation, the city manager shall give notice of an action to revoke in writing
five (5) days prior to the effective date of the revocation. The person may
appeal the manager's decision to the city council by filing a notice of appeal
with the city within ten (10) days of the effective date of the revocation.
      3.   During the pendency of the appeal, the order to revoke is stayed.
(1996 Code § 5.16.060)
3-4-6: FORM OF CERTIFICATE; TERM:
   A.   Form: The city manager shall prescribe the form of the certificate of
registration. Each such certificate shall have the following printed
prominently thereon: "The issuance of this certificate of registration is not
an endorsement by the city of Clatskanie or any of its officers or employees".
Each certificate of registration shall bear a registration number which is the
same as the file containing the registration statement filed by the registrant.
   B.   Termination Date: Every certificate of registration issued by the city
manager shall contain a termination date upon which the certificate shall
expire, which date shall be the termination of the solicitation period
specified in the registration statement or one year from the date of issuance,
whichever is less.
   C.   List Of Acts Prohibited: The certificate of registration shall contain
a list of the acts prohibited by this chapter. (1996 Code § 5.16.070)
3-4-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Solicit before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M., local time, without the consent of the occupant to do so.
   B.   Solicit without first having obtained a registration certificate
pursuant to this chapter, if required.
   C.   Violate the terms of a registration certificate issued, pursuant to
this chapter.
   D.   Solicit after a registration certificate has been revoked, pursuant to
this chapter.
   E.   Allow, suffer or permit any person soliciting on their behalf or under
their direction to commit any act prohibited by this section.
   F.   Provide false or fraudulent information on a registration statement.
   G.   Leave written materials upon real property where a sign conforming to
the requirements of this chapter is posted.
   H.   Solicit upon real property where a sign conforming to the requirements
of this chapter is posted.
   I.   Allow, suffer or permit any person to solicit on their behalf after a
registration certificate has been revoked pursuant to this chapter. (1996 Code
§ 5.16.020; amd. 2004 Code)
3-4-8: CONSENT TO ENTER ONTO REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Affirmative Consent: It is an affirmative defense to an alleged
violation of subsection
3-4-7A or
3-4-7H of this chapter that the person charged with the violation or crime had
received actual or constructive consent of the occupant prior to entering the
real property. Constructive consent to enter real property may be implied from
the circumstances of each instance, the relationship of the parties and actual
or implied contractual relationships.
   B.   Sign Not Posted: The occupant of real property shall be considered to
have given constructive consent to enter real property for the purpose of
solicitation between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M., local time, if they have not posted a "No Solicitation" sign pursuant
to this chapter.
   C.   Entry Into Structure: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize the entry into a structure located on real property. The right to
enter any structure must be otherwise provided for by law.
   D.   Exemptions: Officers, employees or agents of a governmental entity,
while performing activities within the scope of their office, employment or
agency, are exempt from the requirements of this chapter. (1996 Code §
5.16.030)
3-4-9: NO SOLICITATION SIGN:
   A.   Posting Of Sign: If an occupant of real property chooses to not invite
solicitors onto the occupant's property, the occupant may post a "No
Solicitation" sign pursuant to this section. The effect of the posting of such
a sign is to express the refusal of the occupant to grant consent to any person
to enter that person's real property to solicit, except to those persons exempt
from these provisions by subsection
3-4-8D of this chapter.
   B.   Location And Size Of Sign:
      1.   Signs posted pursuant to this section shall be posted on or near the
boundaries of the property at the normal points of entry, and:
         a.   Signs must be no smaller than six inches (6") in height by eight
inches (8") in width; and
         b.   Signs must contain the words "No Solicitation" and the reference
to this chapter in characters no less than one-half inch (1/2") in height.
      2.   For real property possessing no apparent barriers to entry at the
boundaries of the property which limit access to the primary entrance of a
structure located on the property, placement of the sign at the primary
entrance to the structure constitutes compliance with this section. (1996 Code
§ 5.16.080)
3-4-10: EVIDENTIARY MATTERS:
   A.   Responsibility For Written Material: It shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of subsection
3-4-7G of this chapter if written material is found on real property upon which
a sign conforming to the requirements of this chapter has been posted. The
person responsible for such written material shall be the person identified in
the written material as its proponent, sponsor, distributor or potential
beneficiary of the communication conveyed.
   B.   Soliciting On Behalf Of Another: For the purposes of subsections
3-4-7E and I of this chapter, if a person solicits on behalf of a person
registered pursuant to this chapter, it is presumed that the person registered
allowed, suffered or permitted the solicitation. (1996 Code § 5.16.090)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Nuisances Affecting Public Health
4-1-3: Animals, Livestock And Poultry
4-1-4: Attractive Nuisances; Exceptions
4-1-5: Snow And Ice Removal
4-1-6: Grass, Shrubbery, Weeds And Trees
4-1-7: Scattering Rubbish
4-1-8: Sight Obstructions
4-1-9: Fences
4-1-10: Drainage Across Street Or Sidewalk
4-1-11: Radio And Television Interference
4-1-12: Notices And Advertisements
4-1-13: Public Nuisances Declared
4-1-14: Notice Of Abatement
4-1-15: Responsibility For Abatement
4-1-16: Assessment Of Abatement Costs
4-1-17: Summary Abatement
4-1-18: Penalty And Abatement
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
NUISANCE: Every act or thing done, or anything existing within the limits of
the city which is or may be declared by any law of the state or by any
ordinance of the city to be a nuisance, hereby is declared to be a nuisance,
and shall be considered and treated as such in all actions, suits and
proceedings whatsoever, unless such law or ordinance is declared void by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY: An agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser,
owner, or other person having possession, control or supervision of property.
PERSON RESPONSIBLE: The "person responsible" for abating a nuisance shall
include:
   A.   The owner.
   B.   The "person in charge of property", as defined in this section.
   C.   The person who caused to come into or continue in existence a nuisance,
as defined in this section.
PUBLIC PLACE: A building, way, place or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public. (1996 Code §§
1.04.340, 1.04.350, 1.04.380; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH:
No person shall cause or permit on property owned or controlled by him, a
nuisance affecting public health. The following are nuisances affecting the
public health and may be abated as provided in this chapter:
   A.   Privies: An open vault or privy constructed and maintained within the
city, except those constructed or maintained in connection with construction
projects in accordance with the Oregon state board of health regulations.
   B.   Debris: Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure and other refuse that
are not removed within a reasonable time and that affect the health of the
city.
   C.   Stagnant Water: Stagnant water which affords a breeding place for
mosquitoes and other insect pests.
   D.   Water Pollution: Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream or
drainage ditch by sewage, industrial wastes or other substances placed in or
near the water in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the
water.
   E.   Food: Decayed or unwholesome food which is offered for human
consumption.
   F.   Odor: Premises which are in such a state or condition as to cause an
offensive odor, or which are in an unsanitary condition.
   G.   Surface Drainage: Drainage of liquid wastes from private premises.
   H.   Cesspools: Cesspools or septic tanks which are in an unsanitary
condition or which cause an offensive odor.
   I.   Slaughterhouses: A slaughterhouse, tannery or pigsty. (1996 Code §
8.04.040)
   J.   Illegal Drug Manufacturing Site: Any property that has been determined
to be not fit for use pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 453.855 to 453.912 or
similar successor statute, which is allowed to be used as if it were fit for
use. (2004 Code)
4-1-3: ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY 1 :
   A.   Dangerous Animals: No owner or person in charge of an animal shall
permit an animal which is dangerous to the public health or safety to be
exposed in public. If the animal is exposed in public, biting a person,
unlicensed, or is roaming, it may be taken into custody by the City or animal
control officer. (1996 Code § 8.04.010; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Livestock And Poultry: No person shall keep or maintain livestock or
poultry within the City unless the property is zoned "Open Space" (section
9-8B-1 of this Code) and has the approval of the Planning Commission to conduct
urban farming (section
9-8B-4 of this Code). (Ord. 687, 8-2-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1D-3A; title 5, chapter 1, article E; and title 5,
  chapter 3 of this Code.
4-1-4: ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: No owner or person in charge of property shall
permit thereon:
      1.   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children.
      2.   Lumber, logs or piling placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children.
      3.   An open pit, quarry, cistern or other excavation without safeguards
or barriers to prevent such places from being used by children.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to authorized construction
projects with reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing
children. (1996 Code § 8.04.050)
4-1-5: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: No owner or person in charge of property, improved or
unimproved, abutting on a public sidewalk shall permit:
      1.   Snow to remain on the sidewalk for a reasonable time after daylight
after the snow has fallen.
      2.   Ice to remain on the sidewalk for a reasonable time after daylight
after the ice has formed unless the ice is covered with sand, ashes or other
suitable material to assure safe travel.
   B.   Liability Of Property Owner: Failure to comply with subsection A of
this section shall subject the property owner to liability for any injuries
resulting from the violation. (1996 Code § 8.04.060)
4-1-6: GRASS, SHRUBBERY, WEEDS AND TREES:
   A.   Noxious Vegetation: No owner or person in charge of property shall
permit weeds or other noxious vegetation to grow upon his property. It shall be
the duty of an owner or person in charge of property to cut down or to destroy
grass, shrubbery, brush, bushes, weeds or other noxious vegetation as often as
needed to prevent them from becoming unsightly, from becoming a fire hazard,
or, in the case of weeds or other noxious vegetation, from maturing or from
going to seed. (1996 Code § 8.04.070)
   B.   Trees:
      1.   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a street or
public sidewalk shall permit trees or bushes on his property to interfere with
street or sidewalk traffic. It is the duty of an owner or person in charge of
property that abuts upon a street or public sidewalk to keep all trees and
bushes on his premises, including the adjoining parking strip, trimmed to a
height of not less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk and not less than
twelve feet (12') above the roadway.
      2.   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow to stand a dead
or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property on or
near the property. (1996 Code § 8.04.090)
4-1-7: SCATTERING RUBBISH:
No person shall deposit upon public or private property any kind of rubbish,
trash, debris, refuse or any substance that would mar the appearance, create a
stench or fire hazard, detract from the cleanliness or safety of the property
or would be likely to injure a person, animal or vehicle traveling upon a
public way. (1996 Code § 8.04.080)
4-1-8: SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS 1 :
   A.   Clear Vision Area: No owner or person in charge of property that abuts
upon a street at any corner formed by intersecting streets shall install, set
out or maintain, or allow the installation, setting out or maintenance of any
sign, fence, hedge, shrubbery, natural growth, or other obstruction to the
view, higher than two feet (2') above the level of the center of the adjacent
intersection, within that triangular area between the property line and a
diagonal line joining points on the property lines at the distance from their
intersection specified in this regulation. In the case of rounded corners, the
triangular areas shall be between the lot lines extended in a straight line to
a point of intersection and so measured, and a third side which is a line
across the corner of the lot joining the nonintersecting ends of the other two
(2) sides. The following measurements shall establish clear vision areas:
 
Right Of Way Street       Measurement
Width (Feet) Width (Feet) Each Lot Line
                          (Feet)
60           36           30
50           36           40
50           28           20
 
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section shall not apply to public
utility poles; trees trimmed (to the trunk) to a line at least eight feet (8')
above the level of the intersection; saplings, or plant species of open growth
habits and not planted in the form of a hedge, which are so planted and trimmed
as to leave in all seasons a clear and unobstructed cross view; supporting
members of appurtenances to permanent buildings existing on the effective date
hereof; official warning signs or signals; places where the contour of the
ground is such that there can be no cross visibility at the intersection; or to
signs mounted ten feet (10') or more above the ground and whose supports do not
constitute an obstruction as defined in subsection A of this section. (1996
Code § 8.04.100)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-13-2 of this code.
4-1-9: FENCES:
   A.   Barbed Wire: No owner or person in charge of property shall construct
or maintain a barbed wire fence thereon, or permit barbed wire to remain as
part of a fence along a sidewalk or public way; except, that such wire may be
placed above the top of other fencing not less than six feet six inches (6'6")
high.
   B.   Electric Fences: No owner or person in charge of property shall
construct, maintain or operate an electric fence along a sidewalk or public way
or along the adjoining property line of another person. (1996 Code § 8.04.110)
4-1-10: DRAINAGE ACROSS STREET OR SIDEWALK:
   A.   Owner Responsibility: No owner or person in charge of a building or
structure shall suffer or permit rainwater, ice or snow to fall from the
building or structure onto a street or public sidewalk or to flow across the
sidewalk.
   B.   Drainpipes Required: The owner or person in charge of property shall
install and maintain in proper state of repair adequate drainpipes or a
drainage system, so that any overflow water accumulating on the roof or about
the building is not carried across or upon the sidewalk. (1996 Code § 8.04.120)
4-1-11: RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical
or other device, apparatus, instrument or machine that causes reasonably
preventable interference with radio or television reception by a radio or
television receiver of good engineering design.
   B.   Exception: This section does not apply to devices licensed, approved
and operated under the rules and regulations of the federal communications
commission. (1996 Code § 8.04.130)
4-1-12: NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall scatter, distribute or cause to be
scattered or distributed on public or private property any placards,
advertisements or other similar material.
   B.   Exception: This section does not prohibit the distribution of
advertising material during a parade or approved public gathering. (1996 Code §
8.04.140)
4-1-13: PUBLIC NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   Specific Nuisances Declared: The acts, conditions or objects
specifically enumerated and defined in sections
4-1-2 through
4-1-12 of this chapter are declared public nuisances; and such acts, conditions
or objects may be abated by any of the procedures set forth in sections
4-1-14 through
4-1-16 of this chapter.
   B.   Other Conditions Or Acts: In addition to the nuisances specifically
enumerated within this chapter, every other thing, substance or act which is
determined by the council to be injurious or detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare of the city is declared a nuisance and may be abated as
provided in this chapter. (1996 Code § 8.04.150)
4-1-14: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice Posted On Premises: If the city manager or his designate is
satisfied that a nuisance exists, he shall cause a notice to be posted on the
premises or at the site of the nuisance, directing the person responsible to
abate the nuisance.
   B.   Notice To Responsible Person: At the time of posting, the city manager
shall cause a copy of the notice to be forwarded by registered or certified
mail, postage prepaid, to the person responsible at his last known address.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which the nuisance exists.
      2.   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten (10) days from the date
of the notice.
      3.   A description of the nuisance.
      4.   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may abate
the nuisance, and the cost of abatement charged to the person responsible.
(1996 Code § 8.04.160)
      5.   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may warrant imposition
of a fine. (1996 Code § 8.04.160; amd. 2004 Code)
      6.   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the city manager within ten (10) days from the date
of the notice.
   D.   Certificate Of Posting And Mailing: Upon completion of the posting and
mailing, the persons posting and mailing shall execute and file certificates
stating the date and place of the mailing and posting, respectively.
   E.   Error In Notice: An error in the name or address of the person
responsible shall not make the notice void, and in such case the posted notice
shall be sufficient. (1996 Code § 8.04.160)
4-1-15: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ABATEMENT:
   A.   By Person Responsible:
      1.   Within ten (10) days after the posting and mailing of the notice as
provided in section
4-1-14 of this chapter, the person responsible shall remove the nuisance or
show that no nuisance exists.
      2.   A person responsible, protesting that no nuisance exists, shall file
with the city manager a written statement which shall specify the basis for so
protesting.
      3.   The statement shall be referred to the city council as a part of its
regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
consideration of the abatement, the person protesting may appear and be heard
by the council, and the council shall determine whether or not a nuisance in
fact exists, and the determination shall be entered in the official minutes of
the council. Council determination shall be required only in those cases where
a written statement has been filed as provided.
      4.   If the council determines that a nuisance does in fact exist, the
person responsible shall, within ten (10) days after the council determination,
abate the nuisance. (1996 Code § 8.04.170)
   B.   By City:
      1.   If, within the time allowed, the nuisance has not been abated by the
person responsible, the council may cause the nuisance to be abated.
      2.   The officer charged with abatement of the nuisance shall have the
right at reasonable times to enter into or upon property to investigate or
cause the removal of a nuisance. (1996 Code § 8.04.180)
      3.   The city manager shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance, and shall include
therein a charge of up to twenty five percent (25%) of those expenses for
administrative overhead. (1996 Code § 8.04.180; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Joint Responsibility: If more than one person is a person responsible,
they shall be jointly and severally liable for abating the nuisance, or for the
costs incurred by the city in abating the nuisance. (1996 Code § 8.04.190)
4-1-16: ASSESSMENT OF ABATEMENT COSTS:
   A.   Notice: The city manager, by registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, shall forward to the person responsible a notice stating:
      1.   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative overhead.
      2.   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property, unless paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice.
      3.   That if the person responsible objects to the cost of the abatement
as indicated, he may file a notice of objection with the city manager not more
than ten (10) days from the date of the notice.
   B.   Hearing: Upon the expiration of ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, the council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and
determine the objections to the costs assessed.
   C.   Lien For Nonpayment:
      1.   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within thirty (30) days
from the date of the notice, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as
determined by the council, shall be made by resolution and shall thereupon be
entered in the docket of city liens; and upon such entry being made, shall
constitute a lien upon the property from which the nuisance was removed or
abated.
      2.   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced, and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum. The interest shall commence to run from date of the entry of
the lien in the lien docket.
      3.   An error in the name of the person responsible shall not void the
assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the proposed assessment
render the assessment void, but it shall remain a valid lien against the
property. (1996 Code § 8.04.200)
4-1-17: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
The procedure provided by this chapter is not exclusive, but is in addition to
procedures provided by other ordinances, and the health officer, the chief of
the fire district, the fire marshal, the chief of police or the city manager
may proceed summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which unmistakably
exists, and which imminently endangers human life or property. (1996 Code §
8.04.210; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-18: PENALTY AND ABATEMENT:
The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this chapter, but is
an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not relieve a person of
the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement of a nuisance within ten
(10) days of the date of notice to abate, or if a written protest has been
filed, then abatement within ten (10) days of council determination that a
nuisance exists, will relieve the person responsible from the imposition of any
fine or imprisonment for violation of this chapter. (1996 Code § 8.04.230; amd.
2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CRIME PROPERTY NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Nuisance Declared
4-2-3: Notice
4-2-4: Abatement Proceedings
4-2-5: Emergency Closures
4-2-6: Closure Order, Civil Penalties And Costs
4-2-7: Relocation Costs
4-2-8: Relief From Closure Order
4-2-9: Severability
4-2-10: Other Remedies
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, except as the context otherwise requires:
COSTS: Those costs actually incurred by the city for the physical securing of
real property, court costs, and other expenses incurred in enforcing this
chapter.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A city of Clatskanie police officer or the city manager.
OWNER: Any person holding or claiming to hold any legal or equitable title or
interest in real property, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee in
possession, a vendee under a land sale contract, or a beneficiary under a deed
of trust; any person having or claiming to have lawful care, custody, or
control of real property; or any lienholder or holder of any security interest
in the real property.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, or corporation, or other
form of legal entity or entity in fact capable of owning or using property.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real property, including, but not limited to, lots, parcels,
buildings, houses, rooms, structures, or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether temporary or permanent, and whether or not on the ground itself and any
conveyance or any part or portion thereof.
SPECIFIC CRIME PROPERTY: Any kind of real property upon which three (3) or more
separate factual incidents occur during any ninety (90) day period that involve
any of the below listed behaviors and that have been independently investigated
by any law enforcement agency:
   A.   Crimes involving controlled substances as defined in Oregon Revised
Statutes chapter 475;
   B.   Gambling offenses as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 167.108 through
167.167;
   C.   Prostitution and related offenses as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes
167.002 through 167.017;
   D.   Harassment as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 166.065, excluding
provision 1(b);
   E.   Intimidation as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 166.155;
   F.   Disorderly conduct as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 166.025;
   G.   Unlawful use of a weapon as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 166.220;
   H.   Noise disturbance as defined in section
5-1D-3 of this code;
   I.   Minor in possession of alcohol as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes
471.430;
   J.   Assault and related offenses as described by Oregon Revised Statutes
163.160 through 163.213;
   K.   Sexual offenses as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 163.305 through
163.479;
   L.   Public indecency as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 163.465;
   M.   Trespass as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 164.245 to 164.265;
   N.   Criminal mischief as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 164.345 to
164.365;
   O.   Theft by receiving as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 164.095;
   P.   Unauthorized use of a vehicle as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes
164.135; or
   Q.   Illegal drug manufacturing site as defined in subsection
4-1-2J of this title.
TENANT: A residential tenant as defined by the Oregon residential landlord and
tenant act, and any other person holding real property under the terms of a
lease. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Any real property used or maintained as a specified crime property
within the city of Clatskanie is declared to be a nuisance and shall be abated.
   B.   No owner or occupant shall use or maintain or allow the use or
maintenance of real property as specified crime property.
   C.   No owner or occupant shall use or occupy or allow or permit any person
to use or occupy, by lease or otherwise, any real property during any period
such property is subject to an order of closure pursuant to section
4-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-3: NOTICE:
   A.   When the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
real property is being used or maintained in violation of section
4-2-2 of this chapter, the enforcement officer may institute proceedings
against the owner for the closure of the real property and the imposition of
civil penalties.
   B.   The enforcement officer shall provide preliminary notice of the
institution of proceedings in the following manner:
      1.   The enforcement officer shall notify the owner in writing that the
real property is believed to be a specified crime property. The notice shall
contain the following information:
         a.   The street address and legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         b.   A statement the property is specified crime property, along with
specific findings supporting the determination. The findings shall contain a
concise description of the conditions establishing a violation of this chapter.
      2.   A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at least ten (10)
days prior to filing of the complaint. Service of the notice shall be made by
personal delivery or by mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail to the
owner at the address as it appears on the tax rolls and the address as it
appears on the last recorded instrument of conveyance, if different from the
address specified on the tax rolls, and to the owner's actual address, if known
to be different than the above.
      3.   A copy of the notice shall be served on the occupant or occupants of
the real property not less than ten (10) days prior to the filing of the
complaint. Notice shall be made by mailing a copy of the notice by first class
mail, or by personal delivery to the occupant or occupants of the real
property.
      4.   A copy of the notice may be posted at the real property if ten (10)
days has elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the owner, and no
response has been received by the enforcement officer during that time.
      5.   The enforcement officer shall send a copy of the notice to the city
attorney, as well as any other documentation supporting closure and imposition
of civil penalties.
   C.   After notice has been given pursuant to this section, the city council
may authorize the filing of a complaint in the Clatskanie municipal court to
restrain and enjoin the nuisance. Nothing in this section shall limit the power
of the city of Clatskanie to enter into an agreement with the owner of the real
property for voluntary abatement of the conditions giving rise to the
violation. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-4: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   An action shall be commenced by the filing of a complaint in the
Clatskanie municipal court or the Columbia County circuit court and prosecuting
the action as provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 105.565 through 105.590.
   B.   If prior to the trial, the owner and the city enter into an agreement,
stipulating to the abatement of the conditions giving rise to the complaint,
the court upon motion by the city may stay proceedings for a period not to
exceed sixty (60) days. The owner may thereafter petition the court for
additional periods of time as may be necessary to complete the actions
stipulated to in the agreement. If the owner is not diligently pursuing the
actions stipulated in the agreement, the city may apply for release at any time
prior to the end of the stay. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-5: EMERGENCY CLOSURES:
   A.   If the enforcement officer determines real property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare by virtue of activity which would
establish a violation of this chapter, the city may apply to the court for a
preliminary injunction ordering closure of the real property. In such event, no
preliminary notice required under section
4-2-3 of this chapter need be given. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-6: CLOSURE ORDER, CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS:
   A.   If real property is determined to be a nuisance, the court may order
closure of such property for a period of up to one year, and assess a civil
penalty against the owner of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
noncontinuing offense and up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a
continuing offense upon finding the owner had knowledge of activities or
conditions constituting the violation. A person shall be deemed to have
knowledge at a date no later than the date notice is provided pursuant to
section
4-2-3 of this chapter. In establishing the amount of any civil penalty, the
court may consider the following factors:
      1.   The actions taken by the owner to mitigate or correct the problem at
the real property;
      2.   The financial condition of the owner;
      3.   Whether the problem at the real property was repeated or continuous;
      4.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
      5.   The economic or financial benefits accruing or likely to accrue to
the owner as a result of the failure to correct conditions at the real
property;
      6.   The cooperativeness of the owner with city;
      7.   The costs to the city of investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the condition;
      8.   Any other factors deemed material by the court.
   B.   No order of abatement as to that owner shall be entered if the court
finds that the owner satisfied the conditions set forth in Oregon Revised
Statutes 105.580(3).
   C.   If an order of closure is granted, the city may physically secure the
real property against use or occupancy if the owner fails to do so within the
time specified by the order. All costs reasonably incurred by the city in such
action shall be a lien upon the property as provided by law.
   D.   The city shall prepare a statement of costs, which shall be served on
the owner and filed with the court. If no objection to the statement is filed
as provided by law, the statement of costs shall be entered as part of the
judgment, as a general judgment lien against the real property.
   E.   The lien shall have priority as set forth in Oregon Revised Statutes
105.585(1).
   F.   A notice of pendency of an action may be filed pursuant to Oregon
Revised Statutes 93.740. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-7: RELOCATION COSTS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, any tenant required
to relocate by closure order is entitled to reasonable relocation costs, to be
paid by the owner, if the tenant moved into the real property after either:
      1.   The owner received notice under section
4-2-3 of this chapter; or
      2.   The owner was served with summons and complaint for a preliminary
injunction under section
4-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   In any action to recover relocation costs, the tenant shall be entitled
to reasonable attorney fees associated with the recovery.
   C.   A tenant shall not be entitled to relocation costs if:
      1.   The owner provided the tenant with a copy of the notice given to the
owner under section
4-2-3 of this chapter or a copy of the complaint for a preliminary injunction
filed pursuant to section
4-2-5 of this chapter, before the tenant moved into the real property; or
      2.   The tenant took part in any of the behavior that constituted an
incident on the real property as described in the definition of "specific crime
property" in section
4-2-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-8: RELIEF FROM CLOSURE ORDER:
   A.   The owner of real property may obtain relief from a closure order if
the owner:
      1.   Appears and pays all costs associated with the proceedings;
      2.   Files a bond, in the amount not less than the tax assessed value of
the real property; and keeps such bond in force for a period of not less than
one year; and
      3.   Enters into a stipulation with the city to immediately abate the
conditions and to make every reasonable effort to prevent the same or similar
conditions from occurring for a period of one year.
   B.   If the owner violates any term of the stipulation entered into
according to subsection A of this section, the entire bond shall be forfeited.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall alter the abatement provisions of Oregon
Revised Statutes 105.580 (4) and (5), where abatement was ordered on the basis
of manufacture of a controlled substance. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-9: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any provision of this chapter is held to be invalid for any reason
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not in any way be
affected. (Ord. 662, 5-19-2010)
4-2-10: OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the authority of the city of
Clatskanie and its public officials from taking any other action to restrain or
enjoin a nuisance which may be provided by state or local law. (Ord. 662, 5-19-
2010)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. STATE CRIMINAL CODE; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Conformance With State Codes
5-1A-2: Weapons, Discharge
5-1A-3: Fireworks
5-1A-4: Violations; Penalties
5-1A-1: CONFORMANCE WITH STATE CODES:
   A.   Criminal Code 1 :
      1.   The policy of the city is that city ordinances pertaining to the
public peace, safety, morals and general welfare shall be in conformance with
the "Oregon criminal code of 1971" and its amendments, including all
definitions contained therein. Notwithstanding any provision contained in a
city ordinance, any provision in the Oregon criminal code applies in the same
manner that the law is applied by the state.
      2.   If an ordinance, or provision thereof, of the city is in conflict
with the Oregon criminal code, the Oregon criminal code shall prevail.
      3.   No person shall engage in any activity violating the Oregon criminal
code or city ordinances relating to the public peace, safety, morals and
general welfare as the laws and ordinances provide at the time of the activity.
(1996 Code § 9.04.010; amd. Ord. 673, 10-1-2014)
   B.   Criminal Procedure Code:
      1.   The policy of the city is that criminal procedures of the city shall
be in conformance with Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 131 through 157 and all
other laws governing criminal procedure, including all definitions contained
therein. Notwithstanding any provisions contained in a city ordinance, any
provision in the Oregon Revised Statutes referenced in this subsection applies
in the same manner that the law is applied by the state.
      2.   If any ordinance, or provision thereof, of the city is in conflict
with the Oregon Revised Statutes referenced in this subsection, the state
statutes shall prevail. (1996 Code § 9.04.020; amd. Ord. 673, 10-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 161.005 et seq.
5-1A-2: WEAPONS, DISCHARGE:
No person within the city limits shall fire or discharge a weapon or device,
including any firearm, spring or air actuated pellet gun, air gun or BB gun,
paintball, bow and arrow, slingshot, crossbow, or other device which propels a
projectile by use of gunpowder, other explosive, jet or rocket propulsion,
except as provided by state law. (1996 Code § 9.32.010; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1A-3: FIREWORKS:
The Oregon fireworks law, together with all acts and amendments applicable to
cities, are adopted by reference and made a part of this section. (1996 Code §
9.32.020; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1A-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Except as may be limited by charter, violations of Oregon Revised
Statutes provisions made offenses against the city by adoption of the "Oregon
criminal code of 1971", and its amendments are punishable to the same extent
provided in the state statutes. (1996 Code § 9.36.030)
      2.   Violation of this title, except section
5-1A-1 of this article and chapter 2 of this title, shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); provided, however, that if
there is a violation of any provision identical to a state statute with a
lesser penalty attaching, punishment shall be limited to the lesser penalty
prescribed in the state law. (1996 Code § 9.36.030; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Separate Offenses: Whenever in this title, or any ordinance of the
city, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense,
or the doing of an act is required, or the failure to do an act is declared to
be unlawful or an offense, each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (1996 Code § 9.36.010)
   C.   Nuisance Violations; Abatement: In addition to the imposition of
penalties, violations of sections
5-1B-3,
5-1C-2,
5-1E-2,
5-1F-1, and
5-1F-3 of this title are declared to be public nuisances and subject to
abatement, as provided in
title 4, chapter 1 of this code or other lawful means. (1996 Code § 9.36.020)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES CONCERNING PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Disturbing Police And Fire Communications
5-1B-2: Disorderly Conduct At Fires
5-1B-3: Obstruction Of Fire Hydrants
5-1B-4: Vending Goods On Streets Or Sidewalks
5-1B-1: DISTURBING POLICE AND FIRE COMMUNICATIONS:
No person shall operate any generator or electromagnetic wave or cause a
disturbance of such magnitude as to interfere with the proper functioning of
any police or fire department radio communication system. (1996 Code §
9.08.020)
5-1B-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT FIRES:
No person at or near a fire shall obstruct or impede the fighting of the fire,
interfere with fire department personnel or fire department apparatus, behave
in a disorderly manner or refuse to observe promptly an order of a member of
the fire or police department. (1996 Code § 9.08.030)
5-1B-3: OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
No owner of property adjacent to a street upon which is located a fire hydrant
shall place or maintain within eight feet (8') of such fire hydrant any bush,
shrub or tree, or other obstruction. (1996 Code § 9.08.040)
5-1B-4: VENDING GOODS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
No person shall use or occupy any portion of a street or sidewalk for the
purpose of vending goods, wares or merchandise by public outcry or otherwise,
unless a business license has first been obtained. (1996 Code § 9.08.050)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Open Cellar Doors Or Grates
5-1C-2: Hazardous Containers And Holes
5-1C-1: OPEN CELLAR DOORS OR GRATES:
No owner or person in charge of property shall permit a cellar door or grate
located in or upon a sidewalk or public pathway to remain open except when such
entrance is being used and, when being used, there are adequate safeguards for
pedestrians using the sidewalk. (1996 Code § 9.12.020)
5-1C-2: HAZARDOUS CONTAINERS AND HOLES:
No person shall create a hazard by:
   A.   Intentionally maintaining or leaving in a place accessible to children
a container with a compartment of more than one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet
capacity and a door or lid which locks or fastens automatically when closed and
which cannot be easily opened from the inside; or
   B.   Being the owner or otherwise having possession of property upon which
there is a well, cistern, cesspool, excavation or other hole of a depth of four
feet (4') or more and a top width of twelve inches (12") or more, intentionally
fail or refuse to cover or fence it with a suitable protective construction.
(1996 Code § 9.12.030)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Alcohol And Controlled Substances
5-1D-2: Loitering
5-1D-3: Unreasonable Noise
5-1D-1: ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   State Statutes Adopted By Reference 1 : Oregon Revised Statutes
chapters 471, 475 and 480, as amended, including all definitions contained
therein, are adopted and made a part of this code. (1996 Code § 9.20.050)
   B.   Drinking In Public Places: No person shall drink or consume alcoholic
beverages, or have open alcoholic beverage containers, in or upon a street,
alley, mall, parking lot or structure, motor vehicle, public grounds or other
public places unless licensed for that purpose by the Oregon liquor control
commission. (1996 Code § 9.20.010; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 2 of this code.
5-1D-2: LOITERING:
No person shall:
   A.   Loiter in or near a school building or grounds, not having any reason
or relationship involving custody of or responsibility for a student; or upon
inquiry by a peace officer or school official, not having a specific legitimate
reason for being there.
   B.   Loiter in or about a public place frequented by children, including
swimming pools, school bus stops, playgrounds and parks, and public premises
adjacent thereto, for the purpose of annoying, bothering or molesting children.
(1996 Code § 9.20.020)
5-1D-3: UNREASONABLE NOISE:
No person shall create or assist in creating or permit the continuance of
unreasonable noise in the city. The following enumeration of violations of this
section is not exclusive but is illustrative of some unreasonable noises:
   A.   Animals 1 : The keeping of an animal which by loud and frequent or
continued noise disturbs the comfort and repose of a person in the vicinity.
   B.   Engines Or Devices: The use of an engine, thing or device which is so
loaded, out of repair or operated in such a manner as to create a loud or
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   C.   Air Or Steam Mechanical Device: The use of a mechanical device operated
by compressed air, steam or otherwise, unless the noise created thereby is
effectively muffled. (1996 Code § 9.20.030)
   D.   Construction Activity: Any construction activity, including, but not
limited to, excavation, demolition, or alteration of any structure other than
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
except upon special permit granted by the city.
   E.   Sound Amplifying Devices: The use or operation of an automatic or
electric piano, phonograph, loudspeaker or sound amplifying device so loudly as
to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such manner as renders the
same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to the city,
permits may be granted to responsible persons or organizations to broadcast
programs of music, news, speeches or general entertainment. (1996 Code §
9.20.030; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-1-3 of this code; article E of this chapter, and chapter 3 of this title.
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS 1
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Vehicles Injuring Animals
5-1E-2: Removal Of Carcasses
5-1E-3: Horses On Sidewalks
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-1-3 of this code, subsection 5-1D-3A, and chapter 3 of this title.
5-1E-1: VEHICLES INJURING ANIMALS:
Any person operating a vehicle within the city who shall run over, strike,
injure, maim or kill any domestic animal shall immediately stop and render aid
to such animal, if injured, or provide for the disposition of the carcass, if
such animal is killed; and in either case, such person shall make due and
diligent inquiry to determine the owner of such animal; and if the owner is
found, he shall notify him of the occurrence and also report the same forthwith
to the chief of police or his assistant. (1996 Code § 9.16.010)
5-1E-2: REMOVAL OF CARCASSES:
No person shall permit an animal carcass owned or controlled by him to remain
upon public property, or to be exposed on private property, for a period of
time longer than is reasonably necessary to remove or dispose of the carcass.
(1996 Code § 9.16.020)
5-1E-3: HORSES ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride or lead a horse or other beast of burden on a sidewalk
except to cross a sidewalk. (1996 Code § 9.16.030)
ARTICLE F. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-1F-1: Obstruction Of Building Entrances
5-1F-2: Posting Notices
5-1F-3: Littering
5-1F-1: OBSTRUCTION OF BUILDING ENTRANCES:
No person shall obstruct any entrance to any building, stairway or hall leading
to any building. (1996 Code § 9.24.010; amd. 2004 Code)
5-1F-2: POSTING NOTICES:
No person shall affix a placard, bill or poster upon personal or real property,
private or public, without first obtaining permission from the owner thereof or
from the proper public authority. (1996 Code § 9.24.020)
5-1F-3: LITTERING:
   A.   Offensive Littering: No person shall create an objectionable stench or
degrade the beauty or appearance of property or detract from the natural
cleanliness or safety of property intentionally or by any of the following:
(1996 Code § 9.24.030; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Discarding or depositing any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or
other refuse upon the land of another without permission of the owner, or upon
any public way.
      2.   Draining, or causing or permitting to be drained, sewage or the
drainage from a cesspool, septic tank, recreational or camping vehicle waste
holding tank, or other contaminated source, upon the land of another without
permission of the owner, or upon any public way.
      3.   Permit any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris or other refuse to be
thrown from a vehicle which he is operating, except that this subsection shall
not apply to a person operating a vehicle transporting passengers for hire
subject to regulation by the interstate commerce commission or the public
utility commissioner of Oregon, or a person operating a school bus subject to
Oregon Revised Statutes 820.100 to 820.190. (1996 Code § 9.24.030)
   B.   Littering Streets While Hauling: No person shall haul sand, gravel,
rock, wood or other substances in any vehicle or conveyance that is so
constructed or in such condition as to allow the sand, gravel, rock, wood or
other substance to fall on and litter the public streets of the city. (1996
Code § 9.08.060)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Curfew
5-2-2: Parental Responsibility; Failure To Supervise
5-2-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Applicability: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be on a
street, highway, park, alley or other public place between the hours specified
in subsection B of this section, unless: (1996 Code § 9.28.010)
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, step parent, guardian or other
person twenty one (21) years of age or over and authorized by the parent, legal
guardian or by law to have custody of the minor. (1996 Code § 9.28.010; amd.
2004 Code)
      2.   The minor is then engaged in traveling through the city or going
directly to or from employment, school, religious activity or a school
sanctioned event.
      3.   The minor has been emancipated pursuant to the provisions of state
law. (1996 Code § 9.28.010)
   B.   Curfew Hours: For the purpose of this section, the applicable hours of
curfew are between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the
following morning for Sunday through Thursday. On Friday and Saturday nights,
the curfew shall be between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
four o'clock (4:00) A.M. the following morning. (1996 Code § 9.28.020)
   C.   Parental Responsibility: No parent, guardian or other person having
legal custody of a minor under the age of eighteen (18) years shall permit the
minor to be in violation of this section. (1996 Code § 9.28.030; amd. 2004
Code)
   D.   Public Authority: Any police officer is authorized to take a minor
violating a provision of subsection A of this section into custody as provided
by Oregon Revised Statutes 419C.080. (1996 Code § 9.28.040; amd. 2004 Code)
5-2-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; FAILURE TO SUPERVISE:
   A.   Commission Of Offense: A person commits the offense of failing to
supervise a minor if: 1) the person is the parent, legal guardian or person
with legal responsibility for the safety and welfare of a child under eighteen
(18) years of age; and 2) the child has been found on private property or
premises open to the public in violation of any provision of this code.
   B.   Defense: It shall be a defense to the offense of failure to supervise a
minor if the child's violation of the code occurred in the presence of the
person. It shall be a defense to the offense of failure to supervise a minor if
the violation occurred on private property of the person. It shall be a further
affirmative defense that the person:
      1.   Took reasonable steps to control the conduct of the child at the
time the person is alleged to have failed to supervise; or
      2.   Reported the act to the appropriate authorities. (Ord. 97-589, 6-4-
1997)
   C.   Penalties; Restitution; Citation:
      1.   In addition to any fine or penalty imposed pursuant to this section,
the court may order the person to pay any restitution to a victim of the
minor's conduct. The amount of the restitution ordered pursuant to this section
shall not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      2.   If a child in violation of subsection A of this section is eleven
(11) years of age or younger, any citation issued shall be issued to the
parent, legal guardian or person with legal responsibility for the safety and
welfare of the child for violation of this section rather than to the child for
violation of any provision of this code.
      3.   The first time a person is convicted of an offense described in
subsection A of this section, the person shall not be required to pay a fine
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) if the person successfully participates
and completes a parent effectiveness program to the satisfaction of the court.
(Ord. 97-589, 6-4-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DOG CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Licensing Requirements
5-3-3: Running At Large
5-3-4: Nuisance Dogs
5-3-5: Solid Waste
5-3-6: Impoundment For Violation
5-3-7: Seizure Of Biting Dog
5-3-8: Interference With Officer
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 4-1-3 of this code; section
  5-1D-3; and chapter 1, article E of this title.
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Off or outside the premises belonging to the owner having the
control, custody or possession of the animal while the animal is not under the
complete control of such person (by means of an adequate leash or under voice
control), or is within a vehicle of such person. "Voice control" means the
complete control by such person in the immediate vicinity of the animal. If the
animal creates a nuisance or acts unlawfully as defined in this code, such acts
will in and of themselves determine that the animal was not under voice
control.
DOG: Both male and female. (1996 Code §§ 1.04.040, 1.04.180)
5-3-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
A dog license is required pursuant to the laws of the state and every person
owning or keeping any dog which has a set of permanent canine teeth or is six
(6) months of age, shall within thirty (30) days after becoming the owner or
keeper of the dog, and yearly thereafter, procure from the county a license for
the dog. The application for a dog license, rabies vaccination certification
and the appropriate fee shall be sent to the county clerk. (1996 Code §
6.04.030; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for a dog to run at large or to be permitted to run at large.
(1996 Code § 6.04.010)
5-3-4: NUISANCE DOGS:
A dog is a nuisance if it:
   A.   Howls or barks in such a manner as to deprive a person of peace and
quiet.
   B.   Injures or kills an animal or fowl belonging to a person other than the
owner or custodian of the dog.
   C.   Damages or destroys real property belonging to a person other than the
owner or custodian of the dog. (1996 Code § 6.04.020)
5-3-5: SOLID WASTE:
It is unlawful for a person owning or keeping a dog to allow the dog to deposit
solid waste matter on any property other than that of the person owning or
keeping the dog, but it is a defense to this action if such owner or keeper
removes the solid waste deposited by his dog on any property other than his
own. (1996 Code § 6.04.040)
5-3-6: IMPOUNDMENT FOR VIOLATION:
A dog which is running at large, is a nuisance, or is unlicensed, is in
violation of this chapter and may be impounded by any police or animal control
officer. (1996 Code § 6.04.050; amd. 2004 Code)
5-3-7: SEIZURE OF BITING DOG:
A dog found biting a person or showing a propensity to bite persons may be
summarily seized by any person and promptly delivered to any member of the
police department or animal control officer. (1996 Code § 6.04.060; amd. 2004
Code)
5-3-8: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any police officer
of the city or duly authorized dog control officer engaged in seizing or
impounding any dog under the authority of this chapter. (1996 Code § 6.04.070)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Short Title
5-4-2: Purpose
5-4-3: Definitions
5-4-4: Declaration Of State Of Emergency
5-4-5: Coordination In A State Of Emergency
5-4-6: Authority Of Mayor In A State Of Emergency
5-4-7: Authority To Enter Property
5-4-8: Suspension Of Procurement Requirements
5-4-9: Nonliability For Emergency Services
5-4-10: Penalty For Violation Of Emergency Ordinance, Resolution, Measure,
Order
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the EMERGENCY OPERATIONS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 655,
2-4-2009)
5-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for procedures and regulatory
measures which set forth the responsibilities and authority of the city in the
event an emergency exists within the city. The regulations are intended to
reduce the vulnerability of the city to loss of life, injury to persons or
property, human suffering and financial loss resulting from emergencies and to
assign authority and responsibilities to various city departments. The state
has assigned the responsibility for responding to emergencies to local
governments. (Ord. 655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
EMERGENCY: Includes any humanmade or natural event or circumstance causing or
threatening loss of life, injury to persons or property, human suffering or
financial loss, and includes, but is not limited to, fire, explosion, flood,
severe weather, drought, earthquake, volcanic activity, spills or releases of
oil or other hazardous material as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 466.605,
contamination, utility or transportation emergencies, disease, blight,
infestation, crisis influx of migrants unmanageable by the county, civil
disturbance, riot, sabotage and war.
STATE OF EMERGENCY: A situation which involves an emergency. (Ord. 655, 2-4-
2009)
5-4-4: DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   When circumstances so warrant, any city officer, city department head
or division head, or sworn police officer, after attempting consultation with
the city attorney, may request the declaration of an emergency from the city
council. The city council shall consider the request at a regular or emergency
meeting and may declare an emergency in accordance with this section. If the
nature of the emergency requires that immediate action be taken and it is not
reasonably practicable for an emergency meeting of the council prior to the
time action must be taken, the mayor may issue the declaration in accordance
with this section. In all instances in this chapter, in the absence or
incapacity of the mayor, the council president shall exercise the powers
granted to the mayor, including the declaration of emergency. In council
president's absence or incapacity, any single council person may issue the
declaration. A declaration or action by less than a quorum of the council shall
be subject to review and revision by the city council.
   B.   Such declaration shall be in writing and shall:
      1.   Describe the nature of the emergency;
      2.   Designate the geographic boundaries of the area where the emergency
is deemed to exist, and that portion of the affected area lying within the city
limits;
      3.   Estimate the number of persons at risk, injured or killed.
   C.   The council, or other authorized individual specified in subsection A
of this section, shall have the power to request the governor to declare a
state of emergency or disaster within the city. The request must be submitted
through the governing body of Columbia County. (Ord. 655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-5: COORDINATION IN A STATE OF EMERGENCY:
The city hereby adopts the national incident management system (NIMS) as the
standard for incident management during all emergency management program
elements including mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery within the
city's jurisdiction.
   A.   Whenever an emergency is declared, the city shall coordinate with and
follow applicable Columbia County emergency operations plans. In the event of a
declaration, city department heads and division heads, city police and city
officers and employees are authorized without more direction to implement any
city emergency preparedness plans and programs in place, to act in cooperation
with and in accordance with Columbia County emergency operations plans, and to
act in accordance with state statutes, local laws, and emergency regulations
and orders, to protect the health and safety of the citizens of the city of
Clatskanie. (Ord. 655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-6: AUTHORITY OF MAYOR IN A STATE OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever an emergency is declared under this chapter, the mayor, or individual
in his/her absence or incapacity, may authorize specific emergency powers for
the duration of the emergency period and the specific areas or portions of the
city wherein the emergency is declared to exist and over which the city has
authority, consistent with the declaration of emergency as required to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, including the following:
   A.   A curfew may be established for the area designated as an emergency
area which fixes the hours during which all persons, other than public officers
and officials, may not be upon the public streets or in other places;
   B.   Streets and areas may be barricaded and vehicular and pedestrian
traffic prohibited or regulated on streets leading to the area designated as an
emergency area for such distance as may be deemed necessary under the
circumstances;
   C.   Persons may be evacuated from the emergency area, instructed to shelter
in place or given instruction for other protective actions;
   D.   The mayor may prohibit or restrict the sale of alcoholic beverages and
the sale of gasoline or other flammable liquids;
   E.   The mayor may prohibit the sale, carrying, or possession of any weapons
or explosives of any kind on public streets, public places or any outdoor
place;
   F.   The mayor may declare other measures as are imminently necessary under
the circumstances for the protection of life or property or to prevent or
minimize danger to lives or property.
These powers are specifically delegated to the mayor when an emergency
requiring immediate action exists. The mayor shall convene an emergency meeting
of the city council as soon as possible to adopt such emergency measures by
ordinance or resolution as authorized by Oregon Revised Statutes 401.309. (Ord.
655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-7: AUTHORITY TO ENTER PROPERTY:
During an emergency declared under this chapter, a city employee or agent may
enter onto or upon private property, if the person has reasonable grounds to
believe there is a true emergency and an immediate need for assistance for the
protection of life or property, and that entering onto private land will allow
the person to take steps to alleviate the emergency and prevent or minimize
danger to lives or property from the declared emergency. (Ord. 655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-8: SUSPENSION OF PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS:
When an emergency is declared under this chapter, and consistent with
applicable state law, the mayor is authorized to suspend the applicable public
procurement requirements and, to the extent sufficient funds are available and
budgeted, to redirect city funds to pay expenses incurred as a result of
responding to the emergency. (Ord. 655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-9: NONLIABILITY FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES:
During the existence of a declared or undeclared emergency, the city and any
agent of the city engaged in any emergency services activity, while complying
with or attempting to comply with the adopted plan and this chapter, shall not,
except in cases of wilful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith, be liable
for the death or injury of any person, or damage or loss of property as a
result of that activity. (Ord. 655, 2-4-2009)
5-4-10: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF EMERGENCY ORDINANCE, RESOLUTION, MEASURE,
ORDER:
No person shall knowingly violate any regulation promulgated pursuant to this
chapter, and imposed in a state of emergency declared under this chapter.
Violation of an emergency regulation shall be a class A misdemeanor. (Ord. 655,
2-4-2009)
CHAPTER 5
USE OF CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Authorization For Criminal Information Check Required
5-5-2: Record Check Performed; Results Reported
5-5-3: Retention Of Criminal History Records
5-5-1: AUTHORIZATION FOR CRIMINAL INFORMATION CHECK REQUIRED:
All applicants for city employment, business registration, taxi driver permits,
alarm agent permits, and liquor licenses, as well as tow truck drivers, certain
contracted vendors and appointed volunteers working with the city, will be
required, through the application process, to authorize the city to conduct a
criminal offender history check through the OSP LEDS system. (Ord. 669, 1-2-
2013)
5-5-2: RECORD CHECK PERFORMED; RESULTS REPORTED:
A member of the police department trained and authorized to perform criminal
history checks through the LEDS system will conduct the check on the
prospective applicant, vendor or volunteer and orally report to the appropriate
city department that the record indicates "no criminal record" or "criminal
record". If the record is reported as "criminal record", the city will, under
OAR 257-010-0025, request a written criminal history report from the OSP
identification services section. The police department will make the results of
the criminal history check available to the appropriate official for his or her
consideration in making the selection or for approving the application. (Ord.
669, 1-2-2013)
5-5-3: RETENTION OF CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS:
The written criminal history record on persons that are not hired or appointed
as a volunteer, or whose application for a city business registration, permit
or license has been denied, will be retained in accordance with the
requirements of OAR 166-200-0090 for a period of three (3) years and thereafter
will be destroyed. The criminal history record of applicants and volunteers
with a criminal history that are hired or appointed will become a part of the
confidential personnel files of that employee or volunteer and will be kept in
accordance with the city's record retention schedule. Access to confidential
personnel files is limited to only authorized persons who have an official need
to access such files that is sanctioned by law or regulation. (Ord. 669, 1-2-
2013)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE VEHICLE CODE; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Motor Vehicle Defined
6-1-2: Oregon Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-3: City Council Powers
6-1-4: City Manager, Duties
6-1-5: Traffic Control, Devices And Standards
6-1-6: Violation; Penalties
6-1-1: MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED:
The term "motor vehicle" shall mean any vehicle which is self- propelled,
including, but not limited to, tractors, forklift trucks, motorcycles, road
building equipment, street cleaning equipment, and any other vehicle capable of
moving under its own power, notwithstanding that the vehicle may be exempt from
licensing under the motor vehicle laws of the state. (1996 Code § 1.04.300)
6-1-2: OREGON VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED 1 :
   A.   City Policy: The policy of the city is that city ordinances pertaining
to vehicular and pedestrian traffic conform with the "Oregon vehicle code of
1983", and its amendments, including all definitions contained therein.
Notwithstanding any provisions contained in a city ordinance, any provision in
the Oregon vehicle code applies in the same manner that the law is applied by
the state.
   B.   Conflicts; Vehicle Code Prevails: If an ordinance, or provision
thereof, of the city is in conflict with the Oregon vehicle code, the Oregon
vehicle code shall prevail.
   C.   Violation Of Vehicle Code Prohibited: No person shall engage in any
activity violating the Oregon vehicle code or city ordinances pertaining to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic as the laws and ordinances provide at the time
of the activity. (1996 Code § 10.04.010; amd. Ord. 673, 10-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS chs. 801 - 826.
6-1-3: CITY COUNCIL POWERS:
   A.   General: Subject to state laws, the city council shall exercise all
municipal traffic authority for the city except those powers specifically and
expressly delegated herein or by another ordinance.
   B.   Powers Enumerated: The powers of the council shall include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Designation of through streets.
      2.   Designation of one-way streets.
      3.   Designation of truck routes.
      4.   Designation of parking meter zones.
      5.   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage.
      6.   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law.
      7.   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones.
      8.   Revision of speed limits in parks.
      9.   Establishment, maintenance, removal or alteration of traffic control
signals.
      10.   Establishment, maintenance, removal or alteration of loading zones
and stops for all vehicles.
      11.   Designation of certain streets as bridle paths and prohibition of
horses and animals on other streets.
      12.   Temporary blocking or closing of streets. (1996 Code § 10.04.020)
6-1-4: CITY MANAGER, DUTIES:
The city manager or his designee shall exercise the following duties:
   A.   Installation Of Traffic Control Devices: Implement the ordinances,
resolutions and motions of the council and his own orders by installing traffic
control devices. Such installations shall be based on the standards contained
in the "Oregon Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And
Highways".
   B.   Classes Of Traffic Controls: Establish, maintain, remove or alter the
following classes of traffic controls:
      1.   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes.
      2.   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right, left or U-turns, and the time when the prohibition
applies.
      3.   Parking areas and time limitations, including the form of
permissible parking (e.g., parallel or diagonal).
   C.   Oversize Or Overweight Vehicle Permits: Issue oversize or overweight
vehicle permits. (1996 Code § 10.04.030)
6-1-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL, DEVICES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Temporary Installation In Case Of Public Danger: Under conditions
constituting a danger to the public, the city manager, a police officer, or a
public works supervisor may install necessary temporary traffic control
devices. (Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
   B.   Standards: The traffic control regulations of the city shall be based
upon: (1996 Code § 10.04.050; amd. 2004 Code)
      1.   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations.
      2.   Standards, limitations and rules promulgated by the state highway
commission.
      3.   Other recognized traffic control standards. (1996 Code § 10.04.050)
   C.   Police And Fire Officer Duties And Authority:
      1.   It is the duty of police officers to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   In the event of a fire or other public emergency, officers of the
police and fire departments may direct traffic as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of this title. (1996 Code § 10.04.060)
   D.   Obedience To And Alteration Of Control Devices:
      1.   No person shall disobey the instruction of a traffic officer or a
traffic control device.
      2.   No unauthorized person shall install, move, remove, obstruct, alter
the position of, deface or tamper with a traffic control device. (1996 Code §
10.04.070)
   E.   Existence Evidences Authorized: The existence of a traffic control
device shall be prima facie evidence that the device was lawfully authorized
and installed. (1996 Code § 10.04.080)
   F.   Existing Control Devices: Traffic control devices installed prior to
the effective date hereof are lawfully authorized. (1996 Code § 10.04.090)
6-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: Except as may be limited by charter,
violations of Oregon Revised Statutes provisions made offenses against this
city are punishable to the same extent as provided in the state statutes. (1996
Code § 10.04.430)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Violation of any provision of this title shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (1996
Code § 10.04.430; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE USE AND OPERATION
SECTION:
6-2-1: Crossing Private Property
6-2-2: Emerging From Vehicle
6-2-3: Unlawful Riding, Boarding Or Alighting
6-2-4: Clinging To Vehicles
6-2-5: Damaging Sidewalks, Curbs And Planting Strips
6-2-6: Obstructing Streets
6-2-7: Removing Glass And Debris
6-2-8: Funeral Processions
6-2-9: Compression Brakes
6-2-1: CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No operator of a vehicle shall proceed from one street to an intersecting
street by crossing private property. This provision shall not apply to the
operator of a vehicle who stops on the property for the purpose of procuring or
providing goods or services. (1996 Code § 10.04.100)
6-2-2: EMERGING FROM VEHICLE:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle into a traffic lane without
first ascertaining that it can be done in safety. (1996 Code § 10.04.110)
6-2-3: UNLAWFUL RIDING, BOARDING OR ALIGHTING:
   A.   Unlawful Riding: No operator shall permit a passenger, and no passenger
shall ride, on a vehicle upon a street except on a portion of the vehicle
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to a person
riding within a truck body in space intended for merchandise.
   B.   Boarding Or Alighting: No person shall board or alight from a vehicle
while the vehicle is in motion upon a street. (1996 Code § 10.04.120)
6-2-4: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon a bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, rollerskates,
rollerblades, in-line skates, sled or other device shall attach the device or
himself to a moving vehicle upon a street, nor shall the operator of a vehicle
upon a street knowingly allow a person riding on any of the above vehicles or
devices to attach himself, the vehicle, or the device to such operator's
vehicle. (1996 Code § 10.04.130; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-5: DAMAGING SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND PLANTING STRIPS:
   A.   Driving On Curb Or Planting Strip: The operator of a motor vehicle
shall not drive upon a sidewalk or roadside planting strip except to cross at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
   B.   Dirt Or Other Materials Used As Driveway: No unauthorized person shall
place dirt, wood or other material in the gutter or space next to the curb of a
street with the intention of using it as a driveway.
   C.   Removing Portion Of Curb; Causing Damage: No person shall remove a
portion of a curb or move a motor vehicle or device moved by a motor vehicle
upon a curb or sidewalk without first obtaining authorization and posting bond
if required. A person who causes damage shall be held responsible for the cost
of repair. (1996 Code § 10.04.140)
6-2-6: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
   A.   Obstructing Vehicles Or Pedestrians: No unauthorized person shall
obstruct the free movement of vehicles or pedestrians using the streets.
   B.   Causing Hazard To Public Safety: No person shall park or stand a
vehicle in such a manner or location that it constitutes a hazard to public
safety or an obstruction on the street. (1996 Code § 10.04.150)
6-2-7: REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS:
A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other debris
to be upon a street shall be responsible for removal of the glass and other
debris from the street. (1996 Code § 10.04.160)
6-2-8: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit Not Required: A permit shall not be required to conduct a
funeral procession.
   B.   Rules:
      1.   The procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the most
direct route which is both legal and practicable.
      2.   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
      3.   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
      4.   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
      5.   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the
procession between the vehicles of a funeral procession. (1996 Code §
10.04.170)
6-2-9: COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BRAKE: Any device used for allowing, halting or stopping the movement of
any vehicle.
   COMPRESSION BRAKES: Motor vehicle brakes which are activated or worked by
the compression of the engine of the motor vehicle. (1996 Code §§ 1.04.050,
1.04.110)
   B.   Use Restricted:
      1.   Nuisance: The use of compression brakes within the corporate limits
of the city disturbs the peace and quiet and disturbs the residents of the city
in their rest and in the enjoyment of their property; and, by reason thereof,
the city council finds that the use of such brakes in such area is a public
nuisance. (1996 Code § 10.08.010)
      2.   Use Prohibited; Exception: The use of compression brakes within the
corporate limits of the city is prohibited, except in the case of an emergency,
when use of said compression brakes is necessary to safely stop the subject
motor vehicle. (1996 Code § 10.08.020)
   C.   Signs: The city manager shall erect appropriate signs indicating the
restriction in the area described in this section of the use of compression
brakes. (1996 Code § 10.08.030)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Access To Parking Space
6-3-2: Removal For Fire Department Access
6-3-3: Parking In Alleys; Parking Trucks On Streets
6-3-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-3-5: Storage Of Vehicles On Streets
6-3-6: Use Of Loading Zone
6-3-7: Unattended Vehicles
6-3-8: Buses And Taxicabs
6-3-9: Extension Of Parking Time By Repositioning Vehicle
6-3-10: Government And Utility Vehicles Exempted
6-3-11: Parking Citations
6-3-12: Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-3-1: ACCESS TO PARKING SPACE:
The operator who first begins maneuvering his motor vehicle into a vacant
parking space on a street shall have priority to park in that space, and no
other vehicle operator shall attempt to deprive him of his priority or block
his access. (1996 Code § 10.04.180)
6-3-2: REMOVAL FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS:
Whenever the operator of a vehicle discovers that his vehicle is parked close
to a building to which the fire department has been summoned, he shall
immediately remove the vehicle from the area, unless otherwise directed by
police or fire officers. (1996 Code § 10.04.180)
6-3-3: PARKING IN ALLEYS; PARKING TRUCKS ON STREETS:
In addition to the state motor vehicle laws prohibiting parking, no person
shall park:
   A.   A vehicle in an alley other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of persons or materials, but in no case for a period in excess of
thirty (30) consecutive minutes.
   B.   A motor truck, as defined by Oregon Revised Statutes 801.355, on a
street between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. of the following day in front of or adjacent to a residence, motel,
apartment house, hotel or other sleeping accommodation. (1996 Code § 10.04.190)
6-3-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No operator shall park, and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be parked, upon a
street for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale.
   B.   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
   C.   Displaying advertising from the vehicle.
   D.   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized. (1996
Code § 10.04.200)
6-3-5: STORAGE OF VEHICLES ON STREETS:
No person shall store or permit to be stored on a street or other public
property, without permission of the council, a motor vehicle or personal
property for a period in excess of twenty four (24) hours. It shall constitute
prima facie evidence of storage of a motor vehicle if it is not moved for a
period of twenty four (24) hours. (1996 Code § 10.04.210)
6-3-6: USE OF LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time,
other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or materials, in
a place designated as a loading zone when the hours applicable to that loading
zone are in effect. In no case when the hours applicable to the loading zone
are in effect shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed the
time limits posted. If no time limits are posted, then the use of the zone
shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1996 Code § 10.04.220)
6-3-7: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
   A.   Leaving: No operator or person in charge of a motor vehicle shall park
it or allow it to be parked on a street, on other property open to public
travel, or on a new or used car lot without first stopping the engine, locking
the ignition, removing the ignition key from the vehicle and effectively
setting the brake. If the vehicle is attended, the ignition key need not be
removed. (1996 Code § 10.04.230)
   B.   Locking By Police: Whenever a police officer shall find a motor vehicle
parked unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle in violation of
subsection A of this section, the police officer is authorized to remove the
key from the vehicle and deliver the key to the person in charge of the police
station. (1996 Code § 10.04.240)
6-3-8: BUSES AND TAXICABS:
   A.   Standing And Parking: The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stand
or park the vehicle upon a street in a business district at a place other than
a bus stop or taxicab stand, respectively, except that this provision shall not
prevent the operator of a taxicab from temporarily stopping his vehicle outside
a traffic lane while loading or unloading passengers. (1996 Code § 10.04.250)
   B.   Use Of Stands: No person shall stand or park a vehicle other than a
taxicab in a taxicab stand, or a bus in a bus stop, except that the operator of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when stopping does not interfere
with a bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the restricted space.
(1996 Code § 10.04.260)
6-3-9: EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME BY REPOSITIONING VEHICLE:
Where maximum parking time limits are designated by sign, movement of a vehicle
within a block shall not extend the time limit for parking. (1996 Code §
10.04.280)
6-3-10: GOVERNMENT AND UTILITY VEHICLES EXEMPTED:
The provisions of this chapter regulating the parking or standing of vehicles
shall not apply to a vehicle of the city, county or state, or public utility
while necessarily in use for construction or repair work on a street, or a
vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the collection,
transportation or delivery of mail. (1996 Code § 10.04.290)
6-3-11: PARKING CITATIONS:
   A.   Issuance: Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in
violation of a restriction imposed by this chapter, the officer finding the
vehicle shall take its license number and any other information displayed on
the vehicle which may identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to the
vehicle a traffic citation for the operator to answer to the charge against him
or pay the penalty imposed within five (5) days during the hours and at a place
specified in the citation. (1996 Code § 10.04.380)
   B.   Failure To Comply; Warrant: If the operator does not respond to a
traffic citation affixed to such vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the
municipal judge may send to the owner of the vehicle to which the traffic
citation was affixed, a letter informing him of the violation and warning him
that in the event the letter is disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a
warrant for his arrest will be issued. (1996 Code § 10.04.390)
   C.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of a vehicle placed in violation of a
parking restriction shall be responsible for the offense, except where the use
of the vehicle was secured by the operator without the owner's consent. (1996
Code § 10.04.400)
   D.   Registered Owner Presumption: In the prosecution of a vehicle owner,
charging a violation of a restriction on parking, proof that the vehicle at the
time of the violation was registered to the defendant shall constitute a
presumption that he was then the owner in fact. (1996 Code § 10.04.410)
6-3-12: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Removal Authority: Whenever a vehicle is placed in a manner or location
that constitutes an obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, a
police officer shall order the owner or operator of the vehicle to remove it.
If the vehicle is unattended, the officer may cause the vehicle to be towed and
stored at the owner's expense. The owner shall be liable for the costs of
towing and storing, notwithstanding that the vehicle was parked by another or
that the vehicle was initially parked in a safe manner but subsequently became
an obstruction or hazard.
   B.   Disposition Of Towed Vehicle: The disposition of a vehicle towed and
stored under authority of this section shall be in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 6, article B of this title relating to impoundment and
disposition of discarded vehicles.
   C.   Issuance Of Citation: The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude
the issuance of a citation for violation of a provision of this chapter.
   D.   Stolen Vehicles: Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private
property and stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   E.   Multiple Violations; Impoundment: Whenever a police officer observes a
vehicle parked in violation of a provision of this chapter, if the vehicle has
four (4) or more unpaid parking violations outstanding against it, the officer
may, in addition to issuing a citation, cause the vehicle to be impounded. A
vehicle so impounded shall not be released until all outstanding fines and
charges have been paid. Vehicles impounded under authority of this subsection
shall be disposed of in the same manner as provided in subsection B of this
section. (1996 Code § 10.04.420)
CHAPTER 4
TRUCK TRAFFIC
SECTION:
6-4-1: Motor Truck Defined
6-4-2: Truck Traffic Restricted
6-4-3: Signing Of Restricted Area
6-4-1: MOTOR TRUCK DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "motor truck" is defined as a motor
vehicle that is primarily designed or used for carrying loads other than
passengers. (1996 Code § 10.16.010)
6-4-2: TRUCK TRAFFIC RESTRICTED:
Through motor truck traffic is prohibited on that portion of Nehalem Street
located within the city which is located between U.S. Highway 30 and N.E. Fifth
Street. Motor truck traffic shall also be prohibited on that portion of S.E.
Third Street located within the city which is located between Nehalem Street
and Truehaak Street. (1996 Code § 10.16.020)
6-4-3: SIGNING OF RESTRICTED AREA:
The city manager shall have the restricted area appropriately signed to warn of
the restriction. (1996 Code § 10.16.030)
CHAPTER 5
UNMOTORIZED VEHICLES AND PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Skis, Sleds, Skates And Toy Vehicles
6-5-2: Bicycle Operating Rules
6-5-3: Impoundment Of Bicycles
6-5-4: Use Of Sidewalks And Crosswalks
6-5-5: Crossing Streets Generally
6-5-6: Pedestrian Obedience To Lights And Signals
6-5-1: SKIS, SLEDS, SKATES AND TOY VEHICLES:
   A.   Use Restricted To Authorized Area: No person shall use the streets for
traveling on skis, toboggans, sleds, skateboards, in-line skates, rollerblades,
or similar devices, except where authorized. (1996 Code § 10.04.300; amd. Ord.
597, 11-3-1999)
   B.   Use Of Sidewalks In Commercial Area Prohibited: No person shall use the
sidewalks in any commercial area for the use of the devices or equipment listed
in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 597, 11-3-1999)
6-5-2: BICYCLE OPERATING RULES:
In addition to observing all other applicable provisions of this title and
state law, a rider of a bicycle upon a street:
   A.   Shall not ride upon a sidewalk within the city limits.
   B.   On a two-way street, shall ride to the extreme right, except when
preparing for a left turn. On a one-way street, ride to the extreme curbside of
the traffic lane and with the direction of travel designated for that lane. If
the curb lane is designated for "left turn" or "right turn" only, and the
operator is not intending to turn, he shall operate in the through lane.
   C.   Shall not operate a bicycle in a careless or reckless manner which
endangers or would be likely to endanger himself, another, or any property.
Racing or trick riding shall be included in this offense.
   D.   Shall not leave a bicycle, except in a bicycle rack. If no rack is
provided, he shall leave the bicycle so as not to obstruct any roadway,
sidewalk, driveway or building entrance. Nor shall he leave the bicycle in
violation of the provisions relating to the parking of motor vehicles. (1996
Code § 10.04.320)
6-5-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF BICYCLES:
   A.   It is unlawful to leave a bicycle on public or private property without
the consent of the person in charge or the owner thereof.
   B.   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of twenty four
(24) hours may be impounded by the police department.
   C.   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation of
this chapter may be immediately impounded by the police department. (1996 Code
§ 10.04.330)
   D.   If a bicycle impounded under this chapter is licensed, or other means
of determining its ownership exists, the police shall make reasonable effort to
notify the owner. An impounding fee as set by resolution shall be charged to
the owner. No impounding fee shall be charged to the owner of a stolen bicycle
which has been impounded. (1996 Code § 10.04.330; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   A bicycle impounded under this chapter which remains unclaimed shall be
disposed of in accordance with the city procedures for disposal of abandoned or
lost personal property 1 . (1996 Code § 10.04.330)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
6-5-4: USE OF SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks: A pedestrian shall not use a roadway for travel when a
sidewalk is available. (1996 Code § 10.04.340)
   B.   Crosswalks: No pedestrian shall cross a street other than within a
crosswalk in blocks with marked crosswalks or if within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of a marked crosswalk. (1996 Code § 10.04.350)
6-5-5: CROSSING STREETS GENERALLY:
A pedestrian shall cross a street at a right angle unless crossing within a
crosswalk. (1996 Code § 10.04.360)
6-5-6: PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO LIGHTS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   At an intersection where a pedestrian control light is in operation, no
pedestrian shall start to cross the street, except when the walk signal is
illuminated. Where only vehicle control lights are in operation, no pedestrian
shall start to cross the street, except when the green light is illuminated.
   B.   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon a railroad grade crossing, an
openable bridge or the approach thereto beyond a crossing gate or barrier after
an operation signal indication has been given.
   C.   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under a crossing gate
or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (1996 Code § 10.04.370)
CHAPTER 6
DISCARDED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, including article A and B, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED: Left unoccupied and unclaimed or in a damaged or dismantled
condition upon the streets, alleys or parking lots of the city.
COSTS OF VEHICLE DISPOSAL: The expense of removing, storing and selling an
impounded vehicle.
DISCARDED:
   A.   Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto an unexpired
license plate and is in one or more of the following conditions:
      1. Inoperative.
      2. Wrecked.
      3. Dismantled.
      4. Partially dismantled.
      5. Abandoned.
      6. Junked.
   B.   Discarded vehicles may be deemed to include major parts thereof,
including, but not limited to, bodies, engines, transmissions and rear ends.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1996 Code §§ 1.04.020,
1.04.140, 1.04.170, 1.04.460)
ARTICLE A. VEHICLES ABANDONED IN PUBLIC PLACE 1
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Notice Of Nuisance
6-6A-2: Notice Of Impoundment And Sale
6-6A-3: Low Value Vehicle
6-6A-4: Public Sale
6-6A-5: Redemption Before Sale
6-6A-6: Sale And Proceeds
6-6A-7: Towing And Storage Charges
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-6-1 of this title for definitions.
6-6A-1: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Investigation; Determine Owner: It shall be the duty of the police
department, whenever a vehicle is found abandoned upon the streets, alleys or
parking lots, in the same position for a period of forty eight (48) hours, to:
      1.   Make a routine investigation to discover the owner and request
removal of the vehicle.
      2.   Or, failing to discover the owner by such a process, to make a
diligent inquiry as to the name and address of the owner of the vehicle by
examining such vehicle for license number, identification number, make, style,
and any other information which will aid in the identification of the ownership
of the vehicle, and transmitting all available information pertaining to such
vehicle to the division of motor vehicles of this state with an inquiry for the
name and address of the owner, whenever such vehicle is required by law to be
registered with that office.
      3.   If the owner is not identified, to place a notice upon the
windshield, or some other part of the vehicle easily seen by the passing
public.
   B.   Removal By Police; Exceptions: The notice shall state that the police
department will remove and impound the vehicle under the provisions of this
article twenty four (24) hours after the time of the posting, unless:
      1.   The owner removes the vehicle; or
      2.   Good cause is shown, satisfactory to the chief of police, why such
vehicle should not be removed by the owner or removed and impounded by the
city. (1996 Code § 10.12.010)
6-6A-2: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE:
If the owner is identified, he shall be notified immediately by registered or
certified mail that such vehicle is held by the police department of the city.
The notice to the owner shall also state:
   A.   The reason for impounding the vehicle.
   B.   The existing costs charged against the vehicle.
   C.   An estimate of future costs, including the cost of advertising the
vehicle for sale.
   D.   That unless the owner redeems the vehicle within fifteen (15) days from
the day of mailing the notice and pays all the costs, the vehicle will be sold.
(1996 Code § 10.12.030)
6-6A-3: LOW VALUE VEHICLE:
   A.   Notice Of Intent To Dismantle: If the vehicle is appraised at seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or less, and the owner is identified, the chief
of police shall file with the state motor vehicles division an affidavit
describing the vehicle, including the license plates, if any, stating the
location and appraised value of the vehicle, and stating that the vehicle will
be junked or dismantled. The chief of police shall state that notice of intent
to junk or dismantle the vehicle has been sent with notification of the
location of the vehicle, to the owner.
   B.   Waiver Of Interest: Failure of the owner to reclaim the vehicle within
fifteen (15) days after the date notification is mailed shall constitute a
waiver of his interest in the vehicle.
   C.   Disposal Of Vehicle: Upon completion and forwarding of the affidavit
and expiration of the time period stated in subsection B of this section, the
chief of police may, without notice and public auction, dispose of the vehicle
and execute a certificate of sale. (1996 Code § 10.12.040)
   D.   Certificate Of Sale: The certificate of sale shall be in such form as
determined by the city. (1996 Code § 10.12.040; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6A-4: PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Notice:
      1.   If the vehicle is appraised over seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), and if no claim is made by the owner within the time specified by
subsection
6-6A-2D of this article, or if the vehicle is valued under seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) but the owner cannot be identified after compliance with
section
6-6A-1 of this article, the chief of police shall cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city a notice of sale. The notice
of sale shall state:
         a.   The sale is of abandoned property in the city's possession;
         b.   A description of the vehicle, including the type, make, license
number, identification number, and any other information which will aid in
accurately identifying the vehicle;
         c.   The terms of the sale; and
         d.   The date, time and place of the sale.
      2.   The notice of sale shall be published two (2) times. The first
publication shall be made not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the
proposed sale, and the second shall be made not less than three (3) days prior
to the date of the proposed sale. (1996 Code § 10.12.050)
   B.   Conducting Public Sale:
      1.   If no claim has been made to redeem an impounded vehicle appraised
over seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or appraised under seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00), but the owner cannot be identified before the time set
for the sale of such vehicle, the chief of police shall hold a sale at the time
and place appointed within the view of the vehicle to be sold.
      2.   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder; provided,
that if no bids are entered, or those bids which are entered are less than the
costs incurred by the city, the chief of police may enter a bid on behalf of
the city in an amount equal to such costs.
      3.   At the time of payment of the purchase price, the chief of police
shall execute a certificate of sale, in duplicate, the original of which shall
be delivered to the purchaser and the copy thereof filed with the city
recorder. (1996 Code § 10.12.060)
      4.   The certificate of sale shall be in such form as determined by the
city. (1996 Code § 10.12.060; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6A-5: REDEMPTION BEFORE SALE:
   A.   Application For Vehicle Redemption: An owner may redeem a vehicle
impounded under the provisions of this article, before a sale or disposition
has taken place, by applying to the police department, whereupon he shall:
      1.   Submit evidence of his ownership or interest in the vehicle,
satisfactory to the chief of police, that such claim is rightful; and
      2.   Pay the costs due and owing at the time the application to redeem is
made.
   B.   Return Of Vehicle; Issuance Of Receipt: Upon compliance with subsection
A of this section, the chief of police shall execute a receipt for the owner
and cause the vehicle to be returned to him. (1996 Code § 10.12.070)
6-6A-6: SALE AND PROCEEDS:
   A.   Vehicle And Certificate To Purchaser: Upon a sale being consummated,
the chief of police shall deliver the vehicle and the certificate of sale to
the purchaser. The sale and conveyance shall be without redemption.
   B.   Disposition Of Proceeds: The proceeds of a sale shall be applied:
      1.   To the payment of costs incurred by the city; and (1996 Code §
10.12.080)
      2.   The balance, if any, shall be transferred to the city to be credited
to the general fund. (1996 Code § 10.12.080; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6A-7: TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES:
In the enforcement and execution of the provisions of this article, the chief
of police shall charge and collect the actual charges paid or due for towing
and the actual sum paid or due for storage. (1996 Code § 10.12.090)
ARTICLE B. VEHICLES DISCARDED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY 1
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
6-6B-2: Storage Of Discarded Vehicle Prohibited
6-6B-3: Investigation And Notice By Police
6-6B-4: Entry Upon Private Property
6-6B-5: Hearing By Municipal Court; Removal Order
6-6B-6: City Abatement And Appraisal
6-6B-7: Low Value Vehicle
6-6B-8: Public Sale
6-6B-9: Redemption Before Sale
6-6B-10: Assessment Of Costs
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-6-1 of this title for definitions.
6-6B-1: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is hereby found: to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property; to promote
blight, deterioration and unsightliness; to invite plundering; to create fire
hazards; to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors; to create a harborage for rodents and insects; and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of
a discarded vehicle on private or public property is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this article. (1996 Code § 10.12.100)
6-6B-2: STORAGE OF DISCARDED VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle upon any
private property within the city unless the vehicle is completely enclosed
within a building or unless it is in connection with a business enterprise
dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the city. (1996 Code §
10.12.110)
6-6B-3: INVESTIGATION AND NOTICE BY POLICE:
   A.   Duties Of Police Chief: It shall be the duty of the chief of police,
whenever a discarded vehicle is found upon private property, to:
      1.   Make an investigation to discover the owner of the vehicle and the
person in charge of the property upon which such vehicle is located, and give
written notice to them by personal service or by registered or certified mail,
that the vehicle is in violation of this article; and
      2.   If the owner of the vehicle is not found, to place a notice upon the
windshield, or some other part of the vehicle where it can be easily seen.
   B.   Notice: The notice shall state that a certain discarded vehicle is in
violation of this article and that, within seventy two (72) hours of the day of
the sending or posting of the notice:
      1.   The vehicle must be removed from the city, or to the storage yard of
a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles lawfully conducted within the
city; or
      2.   Completely enclosed within a building. (1996 Code § 10.12.120)
6-6B-4: ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Inspection By Police Chief: The chief of police is authorized at all
reasonable times to enter upon private property and examine any vehicle for the
purpose of determining whether or not it is in a discarded condition. However,
before entering upon private property, the chief shall obtain the consent of an
occupant thereof or a warrant of the municipal court authorizing his entry for
the purpose of inspection, except when an emergency exists.
   B.   Search Warrant: No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of
this article until an affidavit has been filed with the municipal court,
showing probable cause for such inspection by stating the purpose and extent of
the proposed inspection, citing this article as the basis for such inspection,
whether it is an inspection instituted by complaint or other specific or
general information concerning the vehicle in question or the property on which
it is situated.
   C.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
interfere with or attempt to prevent the chief of police from entering upon
private premises and inspecting any vehicle, when an emergency exists or the
chief exhibits a warrant authorizing entry. (1996 Code § 10.12.130)
6-6B-5: HEARING BY MUNICIPAL COURT; REMOVAL ORDER:
   A.   Hearing: Pursuant to a request, the municipal court shall fix a time
for a hearing to show cause why a vehicle should not be immediately abated. It
shall receive the evidence and testimony of the chief of police and other
interested persons concerning the existence, location and condition of the
vehicle.
   B.   Court Decision: After the hearing, the court may authorize and order
the vehicle removed by the city in accordance with the provisions of this
article. The court shall make its order in the form of a resolution which
declares the vehicle to be a public nuisance. The resolution may order the
removal of more than one vehicle and may consolidate the hearings and orders
relating to more than one vehicle. The persons receiving the notice specified
in section
6-6B-3 of this article shall be sent copies of the resolution of the court. In
addition, the court may impose conditions and take such other action as it
deems appropriate under the circumstances in order to carry out the purposes of
this article. It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle where, in its
opinion, the circumstances justify it. It shall refuse to order the removal of
the vehicle where the vehicle, in the opinion of the court, is not subject to
the provisions of this article. The court shall not be bound by the technical
rules of evidence in the conduct of the hearing. (1996 Code § 10.12.140)
6-6B-6: CITY ABATEMENT AND APPRAISAL:
   A.   Abatement Authority: Seventy two (72) hours after the giving of notice
required in section
6-6B-3 of this article, or twenty four (24) hours after adoption of a
resolution declaring a vehicle to be a public nuisance as set forth in section
6-6B-5 of this article, the city shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction
to abate the nuisance and may remove the vehicle by use of city employees or
duly authorized independent contractors. It is unlawful for any person to
interfere with, hinder, or refuse to allow such persons to enter upon private
property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this
article.
   B.   Appraisal: After removing the vehicle, the city shall cause it to be
appraised. (1996 Code § 10.12.150)
6-6B-7: LOW VALUE VEHICLE:
   A.   Notice Of Intent To Dismantle: If the vehicle is appraised at seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or less, the chief of police shall file with
the state department of motor vehicles an affidavit describing the vehicle,
including the license plates, if any, stating the location and appraised value
of the vehicle, and stating that the vehicle will be junked or dismantled. The
chief of police may, without notice and public auction, dispose of the vehicle
and execute a certificate of sale. (1996 Code § 10.12.160)
   B.   Certificate Of Sale: The certificate of sale shall be in such form as
determined by the city. (1996 Code § 10.12.160; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6B-8: PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Notice:
      1.   If a vehicle is appraised over seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), the chief of police shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city a notice of sale. The notice of sale shall
state:
         a.   The sale is of discarded property in possession of the city;
         b.   The description of the vehicle, including the type, make, license
number, identification number, and any other information which will aid in
accurately identifying the vehicle;
         c.   The terms of the sale; and
         d.   The date, time and place of the sale.
      2.   The notice of sale shall be published two (2) times. The first
publication shall be made not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the
proposed sale, and the second shall be made not less than three (3) days prior
to the date of the proposed sale. (1996 Code § 10.12.170)
   B.   Conducting Public Sale:
      1.   If a vehicle is appraised over seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), the chief of police shall hold a sale at the time and place
appointed within the view of the vehicle to be sold.
      2.   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder; provided,
that if no bids are entered or those bids which are entered are less than the
costs incurred by the city, the chief of police may enter a bid on behalf of
the city in an amount equal to such costs. (1996 Code § 10.12.180)
      3.   At the time of payment of the purchase price, the chief of police
shall execute a certificate of sale, in duplicate, the original of which shall
be delivered to the purchaser, and the copy thereof filed with the city.
      4.   The certificate of sale shall be in such form as determined by the
city. (1996 Code § 10.12.180; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6B-9: REDEMPTION BEFORE SALE:
   A.   Application For Vehicle Redemption: A vehicle, impounded under the
provisions of this article, may be redeemed by its owner or by the person in
charge of the property from which the vehicle was removed, before a sale or
disposition has taken place, by applying to the police department, whereupon he
shall:
      1.   Submit evidence of his ownership or interest in the vehicle,
satisfactory to the chief of police, that such claim is rightful; and
      2.   Pay the costs due and owing at the time the application to redeem is
made; and
      3.   Give evidence that the nuisance character of the vehicle will not be
allowed to resume.
   B.   Return Of Vehicle; Issuance Of Receipt: Upon compliance with subsection
A of this section, the chief of police shall execute a receipt and cause the
vehicle to be returned. (1996 Code § 10.12.190)
6-6B-10: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Notice To Owner: After disposing of the discarded vehicle and deducting
the money, if any, received from any sale of the vehicle from the costs, the
city shall give notice as specified in section
6-6B-3 of this article to the person in charge of the property from which the
vehicle was removed:
      1.   Of the unpaid costs of abatement.
      2.   That the cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the real property unless paid within thirty (30) days from the date of
the notice.
      3.   That if the person in charge of the property objects to the cost of
the abatement indicated, he may file a written notice of objection with the
city within twenty (20) days from the date of the notice. (1996 Code §
10.12.200; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Hearing Objections: Within forty (40) days after the date of the
notice, objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined by
the council.
   C.   Resolution; Assessment Of Lien:
      1.   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within thirty (30) days
from the date of the notice, an assessment of the costs shall be made by
resolution of the city council and shall be entered in the docket of city
liens, and upon such entry being made shall constitute a lien upon the real
property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
      2.   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced, and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum. Such interest shall accrue from date of the entry of the lien
in the lien docket.
      3.   An error in the name of the person in charge of the property shall
not void the assessment nor will a failure to receive the notice of the
proposed assessment render the assessment void. The assessment shall remain a
valid lien against the property. (1996 Code § 10.12.200)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Jurisdiction
7-1-3: Scope Of Regulatory Control
7-1-4: City Permission Requirement
7-1-5: Obligation Of City
7-1-6: Vacation Of Rights Of Way
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall mean:
CITY: The city of Clatskanie, Oregon.
PERSON: Individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, district,
joint stock company, and similar entities.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Includes, but is not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, bikeways, public easements
and all other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over
these areas.
WITHIN THE CITY: Territory over which the city now has or acquires jurisdiction
for the exercise of its powers. (Ord. 586, 5-5-1997)
7-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over all public
rights of way within the city under the authority of the city charter and state
law. (Ord. 586, 5-5-1997)
7-1-3: SCOPE OF REGULATORY CONTROL:
The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over each public
right of way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal interest in
the right of way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory control over each
right of way whether the legal interest in the right of way was obtained by
grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation,
foreclosure or other means. (Ord. 586, 5-5-1997)
7-1-4: CITY PERMISSION REQUIREMENT:
No person may occupy or encroach on a public right of way without the
permission of the city. The city may grant permission to use rights of way by
franchises, licenses or permits. (Ord. 586, 5-5-1997)
7-1-5: OBLIGATION OF CITY:
The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory control over a public right of way
by the city is not official acceptance of the right of way, and does not
obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right of way. (Ord.
586, 5-5-1997)
7-1-6: VACATION OF RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Procedure: Vacation of any street, avenue, boulevard, alley, plat,
public square or other public place shall be in accordance with Oregon Revised
Statutes 271.080 through 271.230.
   B.   Fee: A right of way vacation application fee shall be paid upon the
filing of the petition for vacation. Such fee, which shall be sufficient to
cover the cost of publication, posting, and other anticipated expenses, shall
be established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 583, 10-2-1996)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Authority To Establish Public Works Standards
7-2-2: Permit Required
7-2-3: Application For Permit
7-2-4: Issuance Of Permit
7-2-5: Work Under Permit; Approval Certificate
7-2-6: Record Of Permits
7-2-7: Width Of Streets And Sidewalks
7-2-8: Repairing Sidewalks
7-2-1: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS:
The city council may establish and revise public works standards by resolution.
(2004 Code)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required; Exception: From and after the effective date hereof,
it is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to break up, dig up, cut,
excavate, remove or fill in any street or to construct any sidewalk, crosswalk
or gutter, plank roadway, or other roadway, or to do any work in or upon or
through any of the public streets within the corporate limits of the city
without first obtaining a written permit therefor as provided in this chapter;
except, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any street or
sidewalk repair within the city limits authorized by law or made in pursuance
of a notice to repair from the city council. (1996 Code § 12.04.010)
   B.   Compliance With City Plans And Specifications: Any improvement not
provided for in this title shall be done in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the city. (1996 Code § 12.04.010; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person, firm or corporation owning real property, or having same under
control as owner, agent or trustee, who may desire to do grading, to lay a
sidewalk, gutter or roadway, or to make any kind of street improvement in front
of said property, other than repair, within the limits authorized by law, or in
pursuance of a notice to repair from the city council, shall first apply to the
city, and in the application shall specify the property in front of which the
proposed improvement is to be made, the name of the street or streets to be
improved, the nature of the proposed improvement, and the time required for its
completion. (1996 Code § 12.04.020; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Conditions For Issuance: Permits will be issued by the city, and no
permit will be given or issued for work upon any street or any part thereof
when, or before, the design thereof has not been legally established and
accepted by the city.
   B.   Refusal Of Permit: The city may refuse a permit if in its judgment the
proposed improvement to be made is not a suitable one for the place or location
thereof, or when the improvement contemplates the removal of earth from any
street when or where it may be necessary to secure the deposit of said earth
upon any other part or parts of said street.
   C.   Contents Of Permit; Surveys For Grade: The permit provided for in this
section shall specify and provide the kind of work to be done and the time in
which same is to be completed. It shall be the duty of the applicant to make
the necessary survey and mark the grade for any improvement for which a permit
may be issued. All permits issued for the construction of cement or artificial
stone walks, sidewalks or curbs shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications therefor; and any additional information thereto deemed
pertinent by the city shall be added; and the work thereon shall be done
according to the said specifications. (1996 Code § 12.04.030; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-5: WORK UNDER PERMIT; APPROVAL CERTIFICATE:
All work done under and in pursuance of the permit as provided in section
7-2-4 of this chapter shall be done under the supervision of the city, and upon
completion thereof shall be inspected by the city, and, if satisfactory, the
city shall issue a certificate of approval therefor, which certificate must be
countersigned by the appropriate city official, and thereafter, insofar as that
particular improvement is concerned, and as long as the same shall be in good
order and repair, the same shall be deemed a completion of that part of the
work. (1996 Code § 12.04.040; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-6: RECORD OF PERMITS:
The city recorder shall keep accurate record of any and all permits issued
under this chapter, showing thereon the date of issuance, the person, firm or
corporation to whom issued, an accurate description of the property in front of
which the improvement is to be made, with estimate of quantity, also the date
of issuance of the certificate of approval, and in the event of the nonissuance
of the certificate of approval through reason of failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the reason therefor shall be entered minutely, and
such work shall be removed whenever the city shall so direct. (1996 Code §
12.04.050; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-7: WIDTH OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets: The width of streets shall be as close to compliance as is
practicable with the standards adopted by ordinance or resolution of the
council, as provided for in section
9-15-11 of this code.
   B.   Sidewalks: The width of sidewalks shall be as close to compliance as is
practicable with the standards adopted by ordinance or resolution of the
council, as provided for in section
9-15-11 of this code. (Ord. 571, 8-7-1996; amd. 2004 Code)
7-2-8: REPAIRING SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Duty To Repair:
      1.   All sidewalks in the city upon any street or alley or which are
otherwise open to the general public shall be kept in good and substantial
repair, and it shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of any premises
abutting upon the sidewalk to make such repairs and keep the same in repair.
      2.   It is unlawful for the owner and occupant of any premises to allow
any sidewalk upon or in front of the premises to be or remain out of repair, or
to be or remain out of good and substantial condition. (1996 Code § 12.04.240)
   B.   Failure To Repair; Nuisance: Any sidewalk in the city upon any street
or alley or which is otherwise open to the general public which is not kept in
good and substantial repair shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner and
occupant of the premises abutting any sidewalk which is determined to
constitute a public nuisance shall be subject to the penalty provision and
abatement procedures under title 4, chapter 1 of this code. The city shall be
allowed to proceed against the owner or occupant of the premises abutting any
sidewalk which is determined to constitute a public nuisance, without any
necessity of naming both owner and occupant. (1996 Code § 12.04.250)
CHAPTER 3
ADVANCE FINANCING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Application For Advance Financing; Fee
7-3-3: City Analysis
7-3-4: Public Hearing
7-3-5: Resolutions And Agreements
7-3-6: Advance Financed Reimbursement
7-3-7: Calculation Of Reimbursement
7-3-8: Interest Applied To Reimbursements
7-3-9: Collection Of Advance Financed Reimbursement
7-3-10: Voluntary Imposition Of Lien
7-3-11: Disposition Of Advance Financed Reimbursement
7-3-12: Recording Of Resolutions
7-3-13: Public Improvements
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, for the purposes of this chapter and for the
purposes of any advance agreement entered into pursuant hereto and for any
actions taken as authorized pursuant to this chapter or otherwise, shall have
the meanings set out in this section:
ADVANCE FINANCING: A method of recapturing costs by a developer, where such
developer installs public improvements and where such public improvements may
be utilized by intervening or future properties.
ADVANCE FINANCING AGREEMENT: An agreement between developer and the city, as
authorized by the council and executed by the mayor, which provides for the
installation of and payment for advance financed public improvements and which
agreement contains improvements guarantees, provisions for reimbursement by the
intervening and future properties that may utilize such improvement, inspection
guarantees, and the like as determined in the best interest of the public by
the council.
ADVANCE FINANCING DISTRICT ORDINANCE: An ordinance adopted by the council and
executed by the mayor designating a public improvement to be an advance
financed public improvement and creating an advance financing district and
containing provisions for financial reimbursement by intervening and future
properties that may utilize the improvement and such other provisions as
determined in the best interest of the public by the council.
COUNCIL: The council of Clatskanie, Oregon.
DEVELOPER: The city, an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a
corporation, a subdivider, a partitioner of land or any other entity, without
limitation, who will bear, under the terms of this chapter, the expense of
design, construction, purchase, installation or other expenses associated with
the creation of a public improvement. The rights of a developer, created under
the ordinance, also apply to his heirs, successors or assigns.
DEVELOPMENT: That real property being developed by the developer and for which
property the advance financing district ordinance is adopted.
FUTURE PROPERTY: That real property which may be served by the installation of
oversized or over capacity public improvements, but does not include the
development of intervening property.
INTERVENING PROPERTY: That real property abutting an advance financed public
improvement, but does not include the development of future property.
OWNER: The fee holder of record of the legal title to the real property in
question. Where such real property is being purchased under a recorded land
sales contract, then such purchasers shall also be deemed owners.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: The following:
   A.   The grading, graveling, paving or other surfacing of any street, or
opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the grade of or
constructing any street.
   B.   The construction of sidewalks.
   C.   The construction or upgrading of any sanitary or storm sewer or water
main.
   D.   The construction or upgrading of any flood control dike, dam, structure
or facility.
   E.   Those "local improvements" as provided in Oregon Revised Statutes
223.387(1) as now written or hereafter amended.
   F.   Any other public improvements authorized by the council. (1996 Code §
12.06.010)
7-3-2: APPLICATION FOR ADVANCE FINANCING; FEE:
The city will receive applications for advance financing from developer, which
applications shall be submitted to the city and shall be accompanied by a fee
set by resolution. The fee will be applied for the cost of administrative
analysis of the proposed advance financing district, the cost of notifying the
property owners, recording costs and such other costs reasonably associated
with processing the application. When the city is the developer, the council
may direct the city manager to submit the application without fee. (1996 Code §
12.06.020; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-3: CITY ANALYSIS:
Upon receipt of the advance financing application, the city shall make an
analysis of the advance financing proposal and shall prepare a report to be
submitted to the council for discussion at a public hearing. Such report shall
include a map showing the location and front footage of the development and
intervening properties, as well as the location and total acreage of all future
properties. The report shall also include an estimate of the total cost of the
advance financed public improvement. (1996 Code § 12.06.030)
7-3-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Notification:
      1.   Not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days prior to any
public hearing being held pursuant to this chapter, developer and all
intervening and future property owners shall be notified of such hearing and
the purpose thereof. Such notification shall be accomplished by regular mail or
by personal service.
      2.   If notification is accomplished by mail, notice shall be made on the
date that said letter of notification is posted. Failure of any owner to be so
notified shall not invalidate or otherwise affect any advance financing
district ordinance or the council's action to approve or not approve the same.
(1996 Code § 12.06.040)
   B.   Conduct Of Public Hearing: After the city analysis has been completed,
an informational public hearing shall be held in which all parties and the
general public shall be given the opportunity to express their views and ask
questions pertaining to the proposed advance financed public improvement. Since
advance financed public improvements do not give rise to assessments, the
public hearing is for informational purposes only, and is not subject to
remonstrances. The council has the sole discretion after the public hearing to
decide whether or not an advance financing district ordinance shall be adopted.
(1996 Code § 12.06.050; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-5: RESOLUTIONS AND AGREEMENTS:
After the public hearing, held pursuant to subsection
7-3-4B of this chapter, if the council desires to proceed with the advance
financed public improvement, it shall pass an advance financed district
resolution accordingly. The resolution shall designate the improvement as an
advance financial improvement and provide for advance financed reimbursement by
intervening and future property owners pursuant to this chapter. Except when
the developer is the city, the advance financing district resolution may
instruct the city to enter into an agreement between developer and the city
pertaining to the advance financed improvement, and may, in such agreement,
require such guarantee or guarantees as the city deems best to protect the
public, intervening and future properties, and may make such other provisions
as the council determines necessary and proper. (1996 Code § 12.06.060)
7-3-6: ADVANCE FINANCED REIMBURSEMENT:
An advance financed reimbursement is imposed on all intervening and future
properties for projects that utilize an advance financed public improvement
district. Such reimbursement is made at the time of utilization of the advance
financed public improvement. (1996 Code § 12.06.070)
7-3-7: CALCULATION OF REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Intervening Properties:
      1.   The advance financed reimbursements, imposed on intervening
properties, when future properties are not involved, shall be calculated by
dividing the total actual cost of the advance financed public improvement by
the front footage of all intervening properties which determines unit cost. The
unit cost (cost per foot) is then multiplied by the front footage of each
intervening property. In addition, the city may use any other method of
apportioning costs on those properties specially benefitted that are just and
reasonable. Interest is then applied and calculated as set out in section
7-2-8 of this chapter.
      2.   When the advance financed improvement includes future properties,
then the above calculation will be the same, except that the total cost of the
improvement shall be reduced by the cost which relates to the oversizing or
over capacity of the advance financed improvement.
      3.   In both subsections A1 and A2 of this section and subsection B of
this section, advance financing reimbursements for odd shaped lots shall be
individually established and consistent with the benefit received by the lot
and the reimbursement required of the other lots in the area. If inequities are
created through the strict implementation of the above formulas, the council
will modify its impact on a case by case basis. (1996 Code § 12.06.080)
   B.   Future Properties: The advance financed reimbursement imposed on future
properties shall be calculated by dividing the total actual cost of the advance
financed public improvement that relates to oversizing or over capacity by the
total acreage of all future properties which determines unit cost. The unit
cost (cost per acre) is then multiplied by the acreage of each future property.
In addition, the city may use any other method of apportioning costs on those
properties specially benefitted that are just and reasonable. Interest is then
applied and calculated as set out in section
7-3-8 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 12.06.090)
7-3-8: INTEREST APPLIED TO REIMBURSEMENTS:
In section
7-3-7 of this chapter, the reimbursements will be increased by interest at the
legal rate under Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 82. The interest will be
calculated from the date the council adopts the advance financing district
resolution to the date of collection of the reimbursement. (1996 Code §
12.06.100)
7-3-9: COLLECTION OF ADVANCE FINANCED REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Payment Due: The advance financed reimbursement is immediately due and
payable to the city by intervening or future property owners upon their
utilizing any advance financed public improvement. If connection is made or
construction commenced without the proper permits, then the advance financed
reimbursement is immediately due and payable upon the earliest date that any
such permit was required.
   B.   Permit Issuance: No permit for connection or construction shall be
issued until the advance financed reimbursement is paid in full or otherwise
processed under the terms of section
7-3-10 of this chapter. Whenever the full and correct advance financed
reimbursement has not been paid and collected for any reason, the city manager
shall report to the council the amount of the uncollected reimbursement, the
description of the real property to which the reimbursement is attributable,
the date upon which the reimbursement was due and the name or names of the
intervening or future property owners. (1996 Code § 12.06.110)
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice; Lien: The city council, by motion, shall then
set a public hearing and shall direct the city manager to give notice of that
hearing to each of those intervening and future property owners, together with
a copy of the city manager's report concerning the unpaid reimbursement, either
in person or by regular mail. Upon public hearing, the council may accept,
reject or modify the city manager's report; and if it finds that any
reimbursement is unpaid and uncollected, the council may, by motion, direct the
finance manager to record a lien on the property and said lien shall be
recorded with the county clerk. The lien shall be enforced in the manner as
provided by law. (1996 Code § 12.06.110; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-10: VOLUNTARY IMPOSITION OF LIEN:
   A.   Application For Financing; Title Insurance:
      1.   The council may allow financing for an advance financed
reimbursement. If such option is allowed, it shall be so stated in the
resolution creating the district. If so allowed, when an advance financed
reimbursement is due and collectable, the intervening or future property owner
within the city limits may apply, upon forms provided by the city, for the
voluntary imposition of a lien upon the parcel for the full amount of the
advance financed reimbursement and the payment of that lien in twenty (20)
equal semiannual installments, including interest.
      2.   The applicant must provide a title search and, if required by the
city, a mortgagee's title insurance policy from a licensed title insurance
company showing the identity and amount of all other liens already of record
against the property and a certificate from the county tax assessor showing the
assessed valuation of the property. The city shall not permit a lien greater
than that allowed by law. Such property that lies outside the city limits must
have the permission of Columbia County in accordance with Oregon law. (1996
Code § 12.06.120)
   B.   Report Required: Upon receipt of such certificates and application, the
city shall compute the amount of the advance financed reimbursement and shall
report to the city manager the amount of the advance financed reimbursement,
the date upon which the reimbursement is due, the name or names of the
applicant/owners and the description of the property; and upon receiving that
report, the city council may, by motion, direct the city manager to record a
lien on the property and said lien shall be recorded with the county clerk.
That lien shall be enforced in the manner as provided by law. (1996 Code §
12.06.120; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-11: DISPOSITION OF ADVANCE FINANCED REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Time Period For Receiving Payments: Developers shall receive the
advance financed reimbursement collected by the city for their advance financed
public improvements. Such reimbursements shall be delivered to developer for a
period of ten (10) years after execution of the advance financing agreement
unless extended by section
7-3-10 of this chapter. The time limitation does apply to the city as
developer, except for public improvements that have been advance financed prior
to the effective date hereof.
   B.   Time Limitation For Making Payments: Payments will be made to the
developer by the city within ninety (90) days of receipt of the advance
financed reimbursements, and any advance financed reimbursements not paid the
developer under the terms of this chapter shall be retained by the city to be
used for related system improvements as authorized from time to time by the
council.
   C.   Administrative Fee For City: The city shall collect an amount for
administrative services performed in collecting and distributing the
reimbursements. Such administrative fee shall reasonably reflect the service
performed and shall be set by resolution. (1996 Code § 12.06.130)
7-3-12: RECORDING OF RESOLUTIONS:
All advance finance district resolutions shall be recorded by the city in the
deed records of the county. The resolution shall contain full legal
descriptions of the development, intervening properties and future properties.
Failure to make such recording shall not affect the legality of an advance
financing resolution. (1996 Code § 12.06.140)
7-3-13: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Public improvements installed pursuant to advance financing agreements shall
become and remain the sole property of the city pursuant to the advance
financing agreement. Advance financed reimbursements, plus interest, not paid
to the developers as set forth in section
7-3-11 of this chapter, shall be paid to the city to be used for related system
improvement as authorized from time to time by the council. (1996 Code §
12.06.150)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Initiation Of Proceedings And Report
7-4-2: City Council Action On Report
7-4-3: Resolution Of Intention; Notice Of Hearing
7-4-4: Manner Of Doing Work
7-4-5: Hearing; Improvement Order
7-4-6: Final Plans And Specifications
7-4-7: Call For Bids
7-4-8: Assessment Ordinance
7-4-9: Assessment Methods; Financing Alternatives
7-4-10: Remedies
7-4-11: Notice Of Assessment
7-4-12: Lien Records And Foreclosure Proceedings
7-4-13: Errors In Assessment Calculations
7-4-14: Deficit Assessment
7-4-15: Rebates
7-4-16: Abandonment Of Proceedings
7-4-17: Invalidation Of Assessment Limited
7-4-18: Reassessment
7-4-1: INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS AND REPORT:
Whenever the city council shall deem it necessary, upon its own motion or upon
the petition of the owners of at least one-half (1/2) of the property to
benefit specially from the improvement, to make any street, sewer, sidewalk,
drain, or other public improvement to be paid for in whole or in part by
special assessment according to benefits, the city council shall, by motion,
direct an appropriate city employee or agent to make a survey and written
report for such project and file the same with the city manager. Unless the
city council directs otherwise, such report shall contain the following
matters:
   A.   A map or plat showing the general nature, location and extent of the
proposed improvement and the land to be assessed for the payment of any part of
the cost thereof.
   B.   Preliminary plans, specifications and estimates of the work to be done;
provided, however, that where the proposed project is to be carried out in
cooperation with any other governmental agency, the report may adopt the plans,
specifications and estimates of such agency.
   C.   An estimate of the probable cost of the improvement, including any
legal, administrative and engineering costs attributable thereto.
   D.   An estimate of the unit cost of the improvement to the specially
benefited properties.
   E.   A recommendation as to the method of assessment to be used to arrive at
a fair apportionment of the whole or any portion of the cost of the improvement
to the properties specially benefited.
   F.   The description and assessed value of each lot, parcel of land, or
portion thereof to be specially benefited by the improvement, with the names of
the record owners thereof and, when readily available, the names of the
contract purchasers thereof.
   G.   A statement of outstanding assessments against property to be assessed.
(1996 Code § 12.08.010)
7-4-2: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON REPORT:
After the report shall have been filed with the city manager, the city council
may thereafter, by motion, approve the report, modify the report, and approve
it as modified; require additional or different information for such
improvement; or it may abandon the improvement. (1996 Code § 12.08.020)
7-4-3: RESOLUTION OF INTENTION; NOTICE OF HEARING:
After the city council has approved the report as submitted or modified, the
city council shall, by resolution, declare its intention to make such
improvement, provide the manner and method of carrying out the improvement, and
shall direct the city manager to give notice of such improvement by two (2)
publications one week apart in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city and by mailing copies of such notice by registered or certified mail to
the owners to be assessed for the costs of such improvement, which notice shall
contain the following matters:
   A.   That a written report on the improvement is on file in the office of
the city manager and is subject to public examination.
   B.   That the city council will hold a public hearing on the proposed
improvement on a specified date, which shall not be earlier than ten (10) days
following the first publication of notice, at which objections and
remonstrances to such improvement will be heard by the council; and that if,
prior to such hearing, there shall be presented to the city manager valid,
written remonstrances on forms provided by the city of owners of two- thirds
(2/3) of the frontage of the property to be specially affected by such
improvement, then the improvement will be abandoned for at least six (6)
months.
   C.   A description of the property to be specially benefited by the
improvement, the owners of such property, and the estimate of the unit cost of
the improvement to be specially benefited, and the total cost of the
improvement to be paid for by special assessments to benefited properties.
(1996 Code § 12.08.030)
7-4-4: MANNER OF DOING WORK:
The city council may provide in the improvement resolution that the
construction work may be done in whole or in part by the city, by a contract,
or by any other governmental agency, or by any combination thereof. (1996 Code
§ 12.08.040)
7-4-5: HEARING; IMPROVEMENT ORDER:
At the time of the public hearing on the proposed improvement, if the written
remonstrances shall represent less than the amount of property required to
defeat the proposed improvement, then, on the basis of the hearing of written
remonstrances and oral objections, if any, the city council may, by motion, at
the time of the hearing or within sixty (60) days thereafter, order the
improvement to be carried out in accordance with the resolution; or the city
council may, on its own motion, abandon the improvement. (1996 Code §
12.08.050)
7-4-6: FINAL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The city council may, in its discretion, cause to have final plans and
specifications prepared for the proposed improvement at any time prior to the
call for bids in the event that any part of the work of the improvement is to
be done under contract bids, or at any time prior to the start of work in the
event that any part of the work is to be done by the city. (1996 Code §
12.08.060)
7-4-7: CALL FOR BIDS:
   A.   Advertisement For Bids; Bonding:
      1.   The city council may, in its discretion, direct the city manager to
advertise for bids for construction of all, or any part of, the improvement
project on the basis of the city council approved report and before the passage
of the resolution, or after the passage of the resolution and before the public
hearing on the proposed improvement, or at any time after said public hearing;
provided, however, that no contract shall be let until after the public hearing
has been held to hear remonstrances and oral objections to the proposed
improvement. In the event that any part of the work of the improvement is to be
done under contract bids, then the city council shall determine the time and
manner of advertisement for bids and the contracts may be let to the
responsible bidder whose bid is in the best interests of the city as determined
in the sole discretion of the city council; provided, that the city council
shall have the right to reject any or all bids when they are deemed
unreasonable or unsatisfactory in the city council's discretion.
      2.   The city shall provide for the bonding of all contractors for the
faithful performance of any contract let under its authority, and the
provisions thereof, in case of default, shall be enforced by action in the name
of the city.
   B.   Excessive Bid Amount; Hearing Of Objections: If the city council finds,
upon opening bids for the work of such improvement, that the bid in the best
interest of the city is substantially in excess of the estimate, it may, in its
discretion, provide for holding a special hearing of objections to the
proceeding with the improvement on the basis of such bid, and it may direct the
city manager to publish one notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. (1996 Code § 12.08.070)
7-4-8: ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE:
If the city council determines that the local improvement shall be made, when
the estimated cost thereof is ascertained on the basis of the contract award or
city departmental cost, or after the work is done and the cost thereof has been
actually determined, the city council shall determine whether the property
benefited shall bear all or a portion of the cost. The city manager or other
person designated by the city council shall prepare the proposed assessment to
the respective lots within the assessment district and file it in the
appropriate city office. Notice of such proposed assessment shall be mailed or
personally delivered to the owner of each lot proposed to be assessed, which
notice shall state the amounts of assessment proposed on that property and
shall fix a date by which time objections shall be filed with the city manager.
Any such objection shall state the grounds thereof. The city council shall
consider objections and may adopt, correct, modify or revise the proposed
assessments; and shall determine the amount of assessment to be charged against
each lot within the district, according to the special and peculiar benefits
accruing thereto from the improvement, and shall by ordinance spread the
assessments. (1996 Code § 12.08.080)
7-4-9: ASSESSMENT METHODS; FINANCING ALTERNATIVES:
   A.   Methods: The city council, in adopting a method of assessment of the
costs of the improvement, may:
      1.   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of any
improvement district consistent with the benefits derived.
      2.   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just and
reasonable between the properties determined to be specially benefited.
      3.   Authorize payment by the city of all, or any part of, the cost of
any such improvement when, in the opinion of the city council, the
topographical or physical conditions, or unusual or excessive public travel, or
other character of the work involved warrants only a partial payment or no
payment by the benefited property of the costs of the improvement.
   B.   Alternatives: Nothing contained in this chapter shall preclude the city
council from using any other available means of financing improvements,
including federal or state grants in aid, sewer charges or fees, revenue bonds,
general obligation bonds, or any other legal means of finance. In the event
that such other means of financing improvements are used, the city council may,
in its discretion, levy special assessments according to the benefits derived
to cover any remaining part of the improvement. (1996 Code § 12.08.090)
7-4-10: REMEDIES:
Subject to the curative provisions of section
7-4-17 of this chapter and the rights of the city to reassess as provided in
section
7-4-18 of this chapter, proceedings for writs of review and suits in equity may
be filed no later than sixty (60) days after the passage by the city council of
the ordinance spreading the assessment; provided, that the property owner shall
have filed a written objection to the proposed assessment as provided in
section
7-4-8 of this chapter. A property owner who has filed a written objection with
the city manager, as required by section 12-4-8 of this chapter, may commence a
suit for equitable relief based on a total lack of jurisdiction on the part of
the city, and if notice of the improvement shall not have been sent to the
owner, and if the owner did not have actual knowledge of the proposed
improvement prior to the hearing, then the owner may file written objections
alleging lack of jurisdiction with the city manager within thirty (30) days
after receiving notice or knowledge of the improvement. No provision of this
section shall be construed so as to lengthen any period of redemption, or so as
to affect the running of any statute of limitation or in equitable defense of
laches. Any proceeding on a writ of review or suit in equity shall be abated if
proceedings are commenced and diligently pursued by the council to remedy or
cure the alleged errors or defects. (1996 Code § 12.08.100)
7-4-11: NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT:
Within ten (10) days after the ordinance levying has been passed, the city
manager shall send by registered or certified mail a notice of assessment to
the owner of the assessed property, and shall publish notice of such assessment
twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, the first publication
of which shall be made no later than ten (10) days after the date of the
assessment ordinance and shall state that, upon the failure of the owner of the
property assessed to make application to pay the assessment in installments
within ten (10) days from the date of the first publication of notice, or upon
the failure of the owner to pay the assessment in full within thirty (30) days
from the date of the assessment ordinance, then interest will commence to run
on the assessment and that the property assessed will be subject to
foreclosure, and the notice shall further set forth a description of the
property assessed, the name of the owner of the property, and the amount of
each assessment. (1996 Code § 12.08.110)
7-4-12: LIEN RECORDS AND FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS:
After passage of the assessment ordinance by the city council, the city manager
shall enter in the docket of city liens a statement of the amounts assessed
upon each particular lot, parcel of land, or portion thereof, together with a
description of the improvement, the name of the owners, and the date of the
assessment ordinance. Upon such entry in the lien docket, the amount so entered
shall become a lien and charge upon the respective lots, parcels of land or
portions thereof which have been assessed for such improvement. All assessment
liens of the city shall be superior and prior to all other liens or
encumbrances on property insofar as the laws of the state of Oregon permit.
Interest shall be charged at the highest rate prescribed by Oregon Revised
Statutes until paid on all amounts not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of the assessment ordinance; and after expiration of thirty (30) days from
the date of the assessment ordinance, the city may proceed to foreclose or
enforce collection of the assessment liens in the manner provided by the
general law of the state of Oregon; provided, however, that the city may, at
its option, enter a bid for the property being offered at a foreclosure sale,
which bid shall be prior to all bids except those by persons who would be
entitled under the laws of the state to redeem such property. (1996 Code §
12.08.120; amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-13: ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS:
Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be called to the
attention of the city manager, who shall determine whether there has been an
error in fact. If the city manager shall find that there has been an error in
fact, he shall recommend to the city council an amendment to the assessment
ordinance to correct such error; and upon enactment of such amendment, the city
manager shall make the necessary correction in the docket of city liens and
send a correct notice of assessment by registered or certified mail. (1996 Code
§ 12.08.130)
7-4-14: DEFICIT ASSESSMENT:
In the event that an assessment is made before the total cost of the
improvement is ascertained, and if it is found that the amount of the
assessment is insufficient to defray the expenses of the improvement, the city
council may, by motion, declare such deficit and prepare a proposed deficit
assessment. The city council shall set a time for a hearing of objections to
such deficit assessment and shall direct the city manager to publish one notice
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. After such hearing,
the city council shall make a just and equitable deficit assessment by
ordinance, which shall be entered in the docket of city liens as provided by
this chapter, and notices of the deficit assessment shall be published and
mailed, and the collection of the assessment shall be made in accordance with
sections
7-4-11 and
7-4-12 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 12.08.140)
7-4-15: REBATES:
If, upon the completion of the improvement project, it is found that the
assessment previously levied upon any property is more than sufficient to pay
the costs of such improvements, then the city council must ascertain and
declare the same by ordinance. When so declared, the excess amounts must be
entered on the lien docket as a credit upon the appropriate assessment. In the
event that any assessment has been paid, the person who paid the same, or his
legal representative, shall be entitled to the repayment of such rebate credit,
or the portion thereof which exceeds the amount unpaid on the original
assessment. (1996 Code § 12.08.150)
7-4-16: ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS:
The city council shall have full power to abandon and rescind proceedings for
improvements made under this chapter at any time prior to the final completion
of such improvements. If liens have been assessed upon any property under such
procedure, they shall be cancelled, and any payments made on such assessments
shall be refunded to the person paying the same, his assigns or legal
representatives. (1996 Code § 12.08.160)
7-4-17: INVALIDATION OF ASSESSMENT LIMITED:
No improvement assessment shall be rendered invalid by reason of a failure of
the report to contain all of the information required by section
7-4-1 of this chapter; or by reason of a failure to have all of the information
required to be in the improvement resolution, the assessment ordinance, the
lien docket, or notices required to be published and mailed; nor by the failure
to list the name of, or mail notice to, the owner of any property as required
by this chapter; or by reason of any other error, mistake, delay, omission,
irregularity, or other act, jurisdiction or otherwise, in any of the
proceedings or steps specified in this chapter, unless it appears that the
assessment is unfair or unjust in its effect upon the person complaining. The
city council shall have the power and authority to remedy and correct all such
matters by suitable actions and proceedings. (1996 Code § 12.08.170)
7-4-18: REASSESSMENT:
Whenever any assessment, deficit, or reassessment for any improvement which has
been made by the city has been, or shall be, set aside, annulled, declared or
rendered void, or its enforcement by any court of this state, or any federal
court having jurisdiction thereof, or when the city council shall be in doubt
as to the validity of such assessment, deficit assessment, or reassessment, or
any part thereof, then the city council may make a reassessment in the manner
provided by the laws of the state. (1996 Code § 12.08.180)
CHAPTER 5
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Quadrants Designated
7-5-2: Street Numbers And Names
7-5-3: Existing Street Names
7-5-4: Street Grid Map
7-5-5: Street Markers
7-5-6: House Numbering
7-5-1: QUADRANTS DESIGNATED:
The city is divided into four (4) quadrants, as follows:
U.S. Highway 30 shall be the dividing line between the north half and the south
half of the city. All areas north of said highway shall be in the north half,
and all areas south of said highway shall be in the south half of the city.
South of U.S. Highway 30, Nehalem Street shall be the dividing line between the
east and west half of the city. North of U.S. Highway 30, Nehalem Street,
running from said highway to Fifth Street shall be the dividing line between
the east and west half of the city. North of the north end of Nehalem Street,
the dividing line between the east and west half of the city shall be as
follows: A line running from the north end of Nehalem Street and in the same
direction as N. Shasta Way to its intersection with the road known as Haven
Acres Road; thence northeasterly along Haven Acres Road to its intersection
with the boundary line of the city.
(1996 Code § 12.12.010; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 644, 3-1-2006)
7-5-2: STREET NUMBERS AND NAMES:
All numbered streets shall run in an easterly and westerly direction, and each
such street shall also be designated by the quadrant in which it is located,
such as northwest, northeast, southwest or southeast. The streets will be
numbered consecutively as they lie north or south of U.S. Highway 30. The first
street north of the highway will be known as First Street Northwest or
Northeast, as the case may be; and the first street south of the highway will
be known as First Street Southwest or Southeast, as the case may be. The second
street north of the highway will be Second Street Northwest or Northeast, as
the case may be, and the second street south of the highway will be Second
Street Southwest or Southeast, as the case may be, and so forth. The names of
the streets running in a northerly and southerly direction shall be designated
by names; and the names shall remain unchanged, unless a change is specifically
provided for by ordinance. (1996 Code § 12.12.020)
7-5-3: EXISTING STREET NAMES:
Except as specifically provided in this chapter, the names of all streets as of
the effective date hereof shall remain unchanged. (1996 Code § 12.12.030)
7-5-4: STREET GRID MAP:
   A.   Adoption: The names of all streets of the city are designated on that
certain map of the city dated January 1966. The map is by this reference
incorporated in this chapter and made a part of this chapter by this reference.
(1996 Code § 12.12.040)
   B.   Conformance Of Names And Numbers: After the effective date hereof, it
shall be the duty of the city to see that all streets conform in name and
number to the general plan indicated on the map referred to in subsection A of
this section before approving any plats and to see that any future streets or
any plats be named and numbered in accordance with the map. (1996 Code §
12.12.050; amd. 2004 Code)
7-5-5: STREET MARKERS:
All streets within the city designated by the map shall be marked. Street names
or markers shall be erected or placed at corner locations at the intersections
of all streets. The markers shall be of uniform length, breadth and letters
that will take names or numbers of the streets with the abbreviation of "St."
for streets. The cost of all markers of the streets shall be borne by the city
and shall be paid out of the general street fund. (1996 Code § 12.12.060; amd.
2004 Code)
7-5-6: HOUSE NUMBERING:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Uniform System: A uniform system of numbering shall be furnished by
the city.
         a.   The numbers shall be one hundred (100) numbers to the block and
all numbers placed on the north and east sides of the streets shall be of even
numbers, and all numbers on the west and south sides of the streets shall be of
odd numbers.
         b.   The numbering of buildings on all named streets shall begin at
First Street with one hundred (100) and run south, and all numbering of all
numbered streets shall begin with one hundred (100) at Conyers Creek and run
west.
      2.   Cost; Supervision: The cost of numbering the buildings shall be
borne by the owners or occupants of the buildings under the supervision of the
city council. (1996 Code § 12.12.070; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Height Of Numbers: The minimum height of house numbers on residences
and business establishments in the city shall be four inches (4"). (1996 Code §
12.12.080)
CHAPTER 6
FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Height Restrictions
7-6-2: Extension Beyond Property Lines
7-6-3: Attaching Signs Or Posters
7-6-4: Menacing Conditions; Thorny Hedges
7-6-5: Waiver Or Reduction Of Requirements
7-6-6: Public Nuisance Declared
7-6-7: Abatement Of Nuisances
7-6-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Adjacent To City Streets:
      1.   Hedges, sight obscuring fences and objects within fifteen feet (15')
of the curb or edge of any city street shall not exceed a height of three feet
(3') above the established grade of the yard or of any driveway which may exist
or be constructed, whichever is lower. However, single trees on which limbs and
branches are kept removed from the tree trunk for a height of at least six feet
(6') above the established grade of the public street shall be permitted within
fifteen feet (15') of the curb or edge of any city street.
      2.   In the case of corner lots, a hedge or sight obscuring fence or
object and all flowers, shrubs and other plants may not exceed a height of two
feet (2') above the established grade for the public street within a triangular
shaped area determined by measuring a distance of thirty feet (30') from the
property corner at the street's intersection, along the property line common to
the lot and each abutting street, and the straight line necessary to connect
the above mentioned two (2) thirty foot (30') sides in order to form the third
side of the triangle; provided, that single trees, the limbs and branches of
which are kept removed from the tree trunk for a height of at least six feet
(6') above the established grade of the public street, shall be permitted.
   B.   Side Property Line: No hedge or sight obscuring fence or object on any
side property line or in the required open side yard shall be over six feet
(6') in height, except in the case of corner lots where such a hedge or fence
or object and all flowers, shrubs and other plants may not exceed a height of
two feet (2') above the grade of the public street within a triangular shaped
area determined by measuring a distance of thirty feet (30') from the property
corner at the street's intersection, along the property line common to the lot
and each abutting street and the straight line necessary to connect the above
mentioned two (2) thirty foot (30') sides in order to form the third side of
the triangle; provided, that single trees, the limbs and branches of which are
kept removed from the tree trunk for a height of at least six feet (6') above
the established grade of the public street, shall be permitted.
   C.   Rear Property Line: No hedge or sight obscuring fence on any rear
property lines, around or in any rear yard shall be over six feet (6') in
height. (1996 Code § 12.16.010)
7-6-2: EXTENSION BEYOND PROPERTY LINES:
No hedge or sight obscuring fence or object shall extend beyond the front, side
or rear property lines of any lot or plot of land 1 . (1996 Code § 12.16.020)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 4-1-8 and
  9-13-2 of this code.
7-6-3: ATTACHING SIGNS OR POSTERS:
No sign or poster shall be attached in any manner to any hedge or sight
obscuring fence or object within a residential district. (1996 Code §
12.16.030)
7-6-4: MENACING CONDITIONS; THORNY HEDGES:
No hedge or sight obscuring fence or object shall be grown or maintained so as
to be a menace to life or limb of any person moving against it. Hedges of
sharp, thorny type plants shall not be permitted. (1996 Code § 12.16.040)
7-6-5: WAIVER OR REDUCTION OF REQUIREMENTS:
Recognizing that there may be situations in which the height and location of
hedges do not affect safety or the public welfare, it is hereby provided that,
notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, where any of the
hereinafter specified conditions exist, the owner of real property may request
the city council to waive or reduce the requirements of this chapter. The city
council, upon determining that any provisions of this chapter shall be waived
or reduced for any such applicant, may impose such restrictions as they deem
necessary in view of the particular facts as represented by the owner, taking
into consideration the prevention of fires, the public health and safety, and
the surrounding neighborhood. The conditions under which the city council may
waive or reduce the requirements of this chapter are as follows:
   A.   Where the lot of the applicant is other than rectangular in shape;
   B.   Where the distance from the nearest property line of a lot to the
vehicular traveled portion of the abutting street is fifteen feet (15') or
more, and there is no pedestrian sidewalk within ten feet (10') of the property
line; or
   C.   Where unusually irregular topography exists upon the lot of the
applicant or the public street upon which the lot of the applicant abuts. (1996
Code § 12.16.050)
7-6-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
All existing or new hedges or sight obscuring fences or objects grown or
constructed after the effective date hereof in violation of the provisions of
this chapter are declared to be public nuisances. (1996 Code § 12.16.070)
7-6-7: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Notice To Abate: Whenever any hedge or sight obscuring fence or object
shall have become a public nuisance, as herein defined, the city shall notify
the owner of record of the premises on which the same is located, or his agent
or person having charge or control of the premises, in writing, to remove or
abate such nuisance within thirty (30) days after receiving such notice.
   B.   Remedial Action: The person so notified shall have the right, within
the thirty (30) day period, to alter the hedge or sight obscuring fence or
object so that the same conforms to the requirements of this chapter, and if
such alteration is so made, no further action will be taken under this section.
   C.   Failure To Abate: If the person so notified shall neglect or refuse to
alter, remove or abate such nuisance, then the person so notified is in
violation of the chapter. The city manager is hereby authorized to institute in
the name of the city such proceedings as may be necessary to remedy the
nuisance and recover any city costs in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1996 Code § 12.16.080; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CAMPING
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Camping Prohibited Upon City Property
7-7-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to balance and prioritize several interests:
recognition of the essential human dignity of everyone in the City of
Clatskanie; the need to have safe and orderly conditions in City rights-of-way
for the safety and benefit of everyone in Clatskanie; the right of everyone in
Clatskanie to have shelter for sleep and safety; and respect for public spaces
and public property in service to the entire community.
With this in mind, this chapter is intended to regulate the use of public
rights-of-way and City property to protect and preserve public places for their
designed and intended purposes, while also making them available for shelter
and sleeping by people who have no other options for shelter.
The City recognizes that surviving on City streets is typically an option of
last resort. This chapter and the City's enforcement efforts will be focused on
mitigating the impacts to public health and safety that can arise from survival
camping in public places. (Ord. 707, 6-7-2023)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, the following words and phrases shall mean:
 
CAMP:              To "camp" means to occupy a campsite for over twenty- four
                   (24) hours.
CAMPSITE:          A location upon city property where camping materials are
                   placed.
                   Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, awnings, lean-
CAMPING MATERIALS: tos, chairs, tarps, collections of personal property and/or
                   similar items that are, or reasonably appear to be, arranged
                   and/or used as camping accommodations.
 
 
                   Includes, but is not limited to, parks, rights of way,
CITY PROPERTY:     parking lots, easements, or other land owned, leased,
                   controlled, or managed by the City.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any item that can reasonably be identified as belonging to
                   an individual and that has apparent value or utility.
                   To move off of city property or to a different city
RELOCATE:          property. This definition does not include moving to another
                   portion of the same city property. (Ord. 707, 6-7-2023)
 
7-7-3: CAMPING PROHIBITED UPON CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to camp upon city property unless
otherwise authorized by law or by declaration of the City Manager.
   B.   Unless otherwise authorized by law or by declaration of the City
Manager, it is unlawful to establish a campsite and a fire for any period of
time at the following locations:
      1.   City Hall and adjacent sidewalks 75 S Nehalem Street;
      2.   Clatskanie City Park 300 Park Street;
      3.   Waste Water Treatment Plant, 100 NW 4th Street; and
      4.   City sidewalk in front of any City licensed business.
   C.   At least once every twenty-four (24) hours an individual that has
placed a campsite, camping materials or personal property on city property must
relocate.
   D.   The City shall only remove individuals and unclaimed personal property
from a campsite as provided by ORS 195.505.
   E.   Violation of this section is punishable by a fine of no more than one
hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00). The amount imposed shall be at the
discretion of the Judge.
   F.   If the City refers a service provider to an individual who is cited for
a violation of this Section and the individual demonstrates they meaningfully
engaged with that or another similar service provider after receiving the
citation and before the hearing, the fine is eligible to be reduced or
eliminated at the discretion of the Judge. (Ord. 707, 6-7-2023)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of chapters 2 through 4 of this title, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
            An individual, household, firm, corporation, partnership, institution or
APPLICANT:  association applying for a city service, permit or other action or
            authorization.
CITY:       The city of Clatskanie, Oregon.
CONSUMER:   An individual, household, firm, corporation, partnership, institution or
            association receiving water or sewer service from the city.
            An individual, household, firm, corporation, partnership, institution or
CUSTOMER:   association receiving water or sewer service within the City's service area
            or by agreement with the City.
            The pipes, valves and fittings leading from the service line into the
CUSTOMER'S  premises served. The customer's line begins from the meter. Where group
LINE:       service is supplied to a privately owned water distribution system, the
            customer's line begins at the master meter.
FIRE        A separate water service, usually four inches (4") in diameter or larger,
PROTECTION  which serves fire protection facilities only, and complies with state fire
SERVICE:    flow regulations.
HOUSEHOLD:  A unit where the usual functions of living, sleeping and preparation of
            meals are carried on.
IRRIGATION: The watering of lot lawns, flowers, shrubs or gardens.
            The pipe, usually two inches (2") or larger in diameter, ordinarily laid in
MAIN:       the street parallel to the street lines and used for the distribution of
            water through service lines to water customers.
NORMAL      Eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through
BUSINESS    Friday, holidays excluded.
HOURS:
SERVICE     The pipe, valves and fittings laid from the main to and including the
LINE:       customer meter or master meter, meter box and all fittings.
STANDARD    Unit costs determined by the city and periodically updated which reflect
COSTS OR    the fully burdened cost to the city for providing a unit of service or
STANDARD    material. (1996 Code §§ 1.04.030, 1.04.080, 1.04.120, 1.04.150, 1.04.160,
RATES:      1.04.200, 1.04.250, 1.04.260, 1.04.280, 1.04.310, 1.04.410, 1.04.440; amd.
            2004 Code; Ord. 700, 3-3-2021)
 
CHAPTER 2
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose And Scope
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Implementing Regulations
8-2-4: System Development Charges Established
8-2-5: Methodology
8-2-6: Compliance With State And Local Laws
8-2-7: Authorized Expenditures
8-2-8: Collection Of Charge
8-2-9: Exemptions Prohibited
8-2-10: Credits
8-2-11: Refunds
8-2-12: Appeal Procedure
8-2-13: Prohibited Connection
8-2-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the system development charge is to impose a
portion of the public cost of capital improvements upon those developments or
redevelopments that create the need for or increase the demands on capital
improvements.
   B.   Scope: A system development charge imposed by the city is separate from
and in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge, fee in lieu of
assessment, or fee otherwise provided by law or imposed as a condition of
development. A system development charge is to be considered in the nature of a
charge for service to be rendered or a service hookup charge. A system
development charge is not a tax subject to the property tax limitations of the
Oregon constitution. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, except where the context otherwise requires, the words
and phrases have the following meanings:
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT(S): Public facilities or assets used for the following:
water supply, storage, treatment or distribution, or any combination thereof;
or sanitary sewers, including collection, transmission, treatment or disposal,
or any combination thereof.
DEVELOPMENT: All improvements on a site, including, but not limited to:
buildings, other structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or
graveled areas, and areas devoted to exterior display, storage or activities.
"Development" includes redevelopment of property and improvement of open areas
such as plazas and walkways, but does not include natural geologic forms or
unimproved lands.
IMPROVEMENT FEE: A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the effective date hereof.
LAND AREA: The area of a parcel of land where applicable shall be as measured
by projection of the parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the
exception of a portion of the parcel within a recorded right of way or easement
subject to a servitude for a public street or for a public scenic or
preservation purpose.
OWNER: The legal owner of record as shown on the assessment and taxation
records of Columbia County, or where there is a recorded land sales contract in
force, the purchaser thereunder.
PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that, in accordance
with city regulations, is occupied or may be occupied by a structure or
structures or another use, which may include the yard and/or other open spaces
required under applicable zoning regulations or other pertinent redevelopment
ordinances.
QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: A capital improvement that is:
   A.   Required as a condition of development approval;
   B.   Identified in a capital improvement plan or otherwise approved by the
city council; and either:
      1.   Not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land that is the subject
of the development approval; or
      2.   Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is the
subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with greater
capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to which the
improvement fee is related. As used in this definition, "contiguous" means in a
public way which abuts.
REIMBURSEMENT FEE: A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the effective date hereof.
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE: A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee or a
combination thereof assessed or collected by the city. It shall also include
that portion of a water or sanitary sewer connection charge that is greater
than the amount necessary to reimburse the city for its average costs of
inspecting and installing connections with the water system or the sanitary
sewer system. "System development charge" does not include:
   A.   Any fees assessed or collected as part of a local improvement district;
   B.   A charge in lieu of a local improvement district assessment; or
   C.   The cost of complying with requirements or conditions imposed upon a
land use decision, expedited land division, or limited land use decision. (Ord.
629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-3: IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS:
The city council delegates authority to the city manager to implement the
provisions of this chapter including any procedures, decisions, or
administrative actions necessary to impose, collect, or secure system
development charges. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-4: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Imposition On Development: System development charges for water and
sanitary sewer are hereby imposed upon all development within the city, and all
development outside the boundary of the city that connects to or otherwise uses
the water or sanitary sewer systems of the city.
   B.   Established And Revised By Resolution: System development charges shall
be established and may be revised by resolution of the city council. The
resolution may set the amount of the charge, the type of permit to which the
charge applies, the geographic area subject to the charge, and the methodology
for calculating such charges.
   C.   Certain Fee Changes Not Considered Modification Of Charges: A change in
the amount of a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee is not a modification
of the system development charge methodology if the change in amount is based
on:
      1.   A change in the cost of materials, labor or real property applied to
projects or project capacity of qualified capital improvements.
      2.   The periodic application of one or more cost indexes or other
periodic data sources. A specific cost index or periodic data must be:
         a.   A relevant measurement of the average change in prices or costs
over an identified time period for materials, labor, real property or a
combination of the three (3);
         b.   Published by a recognized organization or agency that produces
the index or data source for reasons that are independent of the system
development charge methodology; and
         c.   Incorporated as part of the established methodology or identified
and adopted in a separate ordinance, resolution, or order. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-5: METHODOLOGY:
   A.   Reimbursement Fee: The methodology used to establish or modify the
reimbursement fee must consider the cost of then existing facilities including,
without limitation, design, financing and construction costs, prior
contributions by then existing users, gifts or grants from federal or state
government or private persons, the value of unused capacity available to future
system users or the cost of existing facilities, rate making principles
employed to finance publicly owned capital improvements, and other relevant
factors identified by the city council. The methodology must promote the
objective of future systems users contributing no more than an equitable share
of the cost of then existing facilities.
   B.   Improvement Fee: The methodology used to establish or modify the
improvement fee must demonstrate consideration of the projected cost of the
qualified capital improvements that are needed to increase the capacity of the
system to which the fee is related and the need for increased capacity in the
system to which the fee is related that will be required to serve the demands
placed on the system by future users. The improvement fee must also be
calculated to obtain the cost of capital improvements for the projected need
for available system capacity for future users. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-6: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS:
   A.   Disposition Of Funds: Revenues received from systems development
charges shall be deposited to the appropriate fund and be budgeted and expended
as provided by state law.
   B.   City Approval Of Plan: The plan for expending system development charge
revenues shall be a capital improvement plan or any other qualified capital
improvement as approved by the city council. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-7: AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Reimbursement Fees: Reimbursement fees shall be spent only on capital
improvements associated with the system for which the fees are assessed,
including expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness.
   B.   Improvement Fees: Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity
increasing capital improvements associated with the system for which the fee is
assessed, including expenditures relating to the repayment of future debt for
the improvements. An increase in system capacity occurs if a capital
improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by existing
facilities or provides new facilities. The portion of such improvements funded
by improvement fees must be related to current or projected development.
   C.   Expenditures Allowed: System development charge revenues may be
expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions of this chapter,
including the costs of developing system development charge methodologies and
accounting of system development expenditures.
   D.   Prohibited Expenditures:
      1.   System development charge revenues shall not be expended for costs
associated with the construction of administrative office facilities that are
more than an incidental part of other capital improvements.
      2.   System development charge revenues shall not be expended for costs
of the operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements. (Ord. 629, 2-
4-2004)
8-2-8: COLLECTION OF CHARGE:
   A.   Payment Upon Issuance Of Permit: The system development charge is
payable upon issuance of any of the following: issuance of a permit or approval
to connect to the water or sanitary sewer systems; issuance of a building
permit; issuance of a development permit; issuance of a right of way access
permit; issuance of a development permit for development not requiring the
issuance of a building permit; or issuance of a conditional use permit.
   B.   Payment When Permit Not Required: If no building, development, or
connection permit is required, the system development charge is payable at the
time the usage of the capital improvement is increased based on changes in use
of the property unrelated to seasonal or ordinary fluctuations in usage.
   C.   Development Commenced Without Permit: If development is commenced or
connection is made to the water system or sanitary sewer system without an
appropriate permit, the system development charge is immediately payable upon
the earliest date that a permit was required.
   D.   Security To Ensure Payment: The obligation to pay the unpaid systems
development charge and interest thereon shall be secured. Acceptable security
to ensure payment includes: property, bond, deposits, letter of credit, or the
obligor may request a lien be placed against the property to be developed.
(Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-9: EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED:
There is no person, organization, or agency that is exempt from system
development charges imposed by the city. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-10: CREDITS:
   A.   The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that a particular
improvement qualifies for credit under this section. A request for credit shall
be filed in writing no later than thirty (30) days after acceptance of the
improvement by the city.
   B.   When a development occurs that must pay a system development charge,
the system development charge for the existing use shall be calculated, and if
it is less than the system development charge for the proposed use, the
difference between the system development charge for the existing use and the
system development charge for the proposed use shall be the system development
charge required. If the change in use results in the system development charge
for the proposed use being less than the system development charge for the
existing use, no system development charge shall be required; however, no
refund or credit shall be given.
   C.   A credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified public improvement
associated with a development upon acceptance by the city of the public
improvement. The credit provided shall be only for the improvement fee charged
for the type of improvement being constructed and shall not exceed the
improvement fee even if the cost of the capital improvement exceeds the
applicable improvement fee.
   D.   A credit shall be given for that portion of the qualified capital
improvement that is required by the city to be built larger or with greater
capacity than is necessary for the particular development project and exceeds
the city's minimum standard facility size or capacity needed to serve the
particular development project or property.
   E.   If a qualified public improvement is located partially on and partially
off the parcel of land that is the subject of the approval, the credit shall be
given only for the cost of the portion of the improvement not located on or
wholly contiguous to the parcel of land, unless otherwise approved by the city.
   F.   When establishing the methodology for a system development charge, the
city council shall provide for a credit against the improvement fee, the
reimbursement fee, or both, for a capital improvement constructed as part of a
development that reduces the development's demand upon existing public capital
improvements or the need for future public capital improvements or that would
otherwise have to be constructed at city expense. The city may also provide a
credit based on any other rationale the city finds reasonable.
   G.   Credit shall not be transferable from one development to another.
   H.   Credit shall not be transferable from one type of capital improvement
to another. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-11: REFUNDS:
   A.   Refunds may be given by the city manager upon finding that there was a
clerical error in the calculation of the system development charge.
   B.   Refunds shall not be allowed for failure to timely claim credit or for
failure to timely seek an alternative system development charge calculation at
the time of submission of a development application.
   C.   The city shall refund to the applicant any system development charge
credit not expended within ten (10) years of receipt. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Of Written Request: A person aggrieved by a system development
charge decision made by the city or a person challenging the propriety of an
expenditure of system development charge revenues may appeal the decision or
the expenditure by filing a written request with the city for consideration by
the city council. Such appeal shall describe with particularity the decision or
the expenditure from which the person appeals and shall comply with subsection
C of this section.
   B.   Time Limitation; Contents Of Appeal: An appeal of an expenditure must
be filed within two (2) years of the date of alleged improper expenditure.
Appeals of any other system development charge decision excluding a legal
challenge to methodology must be filed in writing within fifteen (15) days of
the date of the decision. A person who fails to file an appeal which does not
meet the criteria in this subsection or is not filed within the time set forth
herein shall not be processed, and the person waives his/her objections, and
his/her objections shall be dismissed. The appeal shall state:
      1.   The name and address of the appellant;
      2.   The nature of the determination being appealed;
      3.   The reasons the determination is incorrect; and
      4.   What the correct determination of the appeal should be.
   C.   Time For Hearing Appeal; Notice: Unless the appellant and the city
agree to a longer period, an appeal filed hereunder shall be heard within forty
five (45) days of the receipt of the notice of intent to appeal. At least seven
(7) days prior to the hearing, the city shall mail notice of the time and
location thereof to the appellant.
   D.   Basis For Council Determination: The city council shall hear and
determine the appeal on the basis of the appellant's written statement and any
additional evidence the council deems appropriate. At the hearing the appellant
may present testimony and oral argument personally or by counsel.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall carry the burden of proving that
the determination being appealed is incorrect and what the correct
determination should be.
   F.   Issuance Of Council Decision: The city council shall issue a written
decision within twenty (20) days after the hearing date, and that decision
shall be final.
   G.   Challenging Methodology: A legal action challenging the methodology
adopted by the city council shall not be filed in writing to the city later
than sixty (60) days after adoption. A person shall contest the methodology for
calculating a system development charge only as provided under Oregon law and
not otherwise. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
8-2-13: PROHIBITED CONNECTION:
No person may connect to the city water or sanitary sewer systems unless the
appropriate systems development charges, if any, have been paid or properly
secured for payment. (Ord. 629, 2-4-2004)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Application For Service
8-3-2: Security Deposit
8-3-3: Customers Outside City; Agreement To Annex
8-3-4: Conditions Of Service Generally
8-3-5: Voluntary Discontinuance Of Service; Fee
8-3-6: Leak Adjustment Credit Or Charges
8-3-7: Emergency Shutoff
8-3-8: City Policy; Water Meters Required
8-3-9: Right Of Entry For Inspection
8-3-10: Service Connections
8-3-11: Water Supply And Curtailment Policy
8-3-12: Extending Distribution Mains Outside The City
8-3-13: Water Supply To Wholesale Distributors By Contract
8-3-14: Privately Owned Water Distribution Systems
8-3-15: Impairment Of Service To Other Properties
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-1 of this title for definitions.
8-3-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Each prospective customer shall make application for water service. The
application shall state the location of the premises for which service is
requested, the address to which bills are to be sent, information adequate to
determine which rate shall apply, and such other information as may reasonably
be required. (1996 Code § 13.08.010)
8-3-2: SECURITY DEPOSIT:
If any building, apartment house, apartment complex or mobile home park has
more than ten (10) apartments, households, businesses or mobile home hookups
which are served by one water meter or the water supplied thereto is billed to
one customer, a refundable security deposit shall be paid based on the
following terms and conditions:
   A.   Existing Structures, Mobile Home Parks: The deposit shall be in an
amount equal to one month's average water bill (including sewer charge) for
existing structures or mobile home parks.
   B.   New Construction: The deposit shall be in an amount equal to one
month's estimated water bill (including sewer charge) for new construction or
mobile home parks. In the case of new construction, the city manager shall
readjust the deposit after one year to cause it to conform to the average water
bill (including sewer charge) for one month based upon the previous year's
billings. (1996 Code § 13.08.020)
   C.   Interest Accrual: The deposit shall accrue interest at the current
state pool interest rate and be refundable upon termination of service by the
customer or installation of individual meters on all of the affected units.
(1996 Code § 13.08.020; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Payment Required Under Certain Circumstances: The security deposit
shall be paid by all designated customers applying for service and shall be
paid by all customers whose service has been disconnected for nonpayment or
whose bill has become thirty (30) days delinquent.
   E.   Use Of Deposit By City: The deposit shall be used by the city to pay
any water or sewer charge which is in default in excess of thirty (30) days.
Service shall then be discontinued unless or until an additional security
deposit as required under this section has been paid to the city. (1996 Code §
13.08.020)
8-3-3: CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CITY; AGREEMENT TO ANNEX:
The City may furnish water to properties outside the Clatskanie City limits,
charging rates fixed by the Council in the manner provided in Chapter Four of
this title (Section
8-4-1 through Section
8-4-3). Providing water service to property outside the City is by agreement.
Water service outside the City shall at all times be subject to the prior and
superior rights of consumers inside the City.
   A.   Before a new water service is provided outside of City limits, the
owner of the property to be served shall sign a water service agreement
accepting the conditions of City water service and covenanting that whenever
the served property is or becomes contiguous to the City, the owner will
consent to annexation of the property. The water agreement will be in the form
of a contract and recorded in a manner that is binding on all successors with
an interest in that property.
   B.   Direct water service to a property owner outside the City requires a
meter of approved size and design which shall include a backflow prevention
assembly located as required by the City. This provision is a condition
precedent to water service from the City.
   C.   The City may temporarily suspend water delivery for the purpose of
making repairs or improvements to its system.
   D.   Water delivery outside City limits is subject to all applicable
provisions of City Code and City of Clatskanie Policy. The City may make
service subject to any other reasonable conditions the City deems appropriate
or proper. (1996 Code § 13.08.030; amd. Ord. 700, 3-3-2021)
8-3-4: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE GENERALLY:
Service to water users shall be subject to the rules, regulations and rates
applicable thereto and in effect at the time service is accepted or as they may
be adopted or modified by the city council. Service to individuals or groups
may be discontinued for failure of a customer to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and related rules, regulations and administrative policy. (1996
Code § 13.08.040)
8-3-5: VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; FEE:
In order for a customer to discontinue the use of service supplied to the
premises for any reason, an administrative fee may be required and arrangements
must be made with the city. The city manager shall have the discretion to waive
the administrative fee. (Ord. 611, 2-20-2002)
8-3-6: LEAK ADJUSTMENT CREDIT OR CHARGES:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to locate any leak occurring from a
service line. The city may compensate the owner for up to fifty percent (50%)
of the cost of any usage attributable to the leak. Any leak adjustment credit
shall be applied to the next regular utility bill. (Ord. 611, 2-20-2002; amd.
2004 Code)
8-3-7: EMERGENCY SHUTOFF:
The water may be shut off from the mains without notice for emergency repairs
and purposes, and the city will not be responsible for any consequent damages;
but whenever practical, the city shall give twenty four (24) hours' notice
before the water is shut off from the main. (1996 Code § 13.08.070)
8-3-8: CITY POLICY; WATER METERS REQUIRED 1 :
In order to provide for the equitable distribution of water by the city, water
meters shall be installed on all private connections within the city water
system. (1996 Code § 13.04.010; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See article B of this chapter.
8-3-9: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   City Authority: The city manager or the city manager's designees shall
have free lawful access at reasonable hours of the day to all parts of
buildings and premises for the purpose of inspecting the conditions of the
pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the water is used and disposed.
(1996 Code § 13.04.020; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Unobstructed Access: Access to water meters, whether on private or
public property, must remain unobstructed, so that meter reading and repair
people have free and unimpaired access. (1996 Code § 13.04.020)
8-3-10: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Application: Application for the installation or alteration of a
service connection from the city water system will be made at the office of the
city. The applicant must state fully and truly all the purposes for which water
may be required. (1996 Code § 13.12.010; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Service Lines:
      1.   City Lines: The city will furnish, install, maintain, connect to the
main and own the service line from the main to and including the meter. No
connection or disconnection from the city mains or alteration in the above
described section of the service line shall be made except as authorized by the
city. Service line size shall be determined by the city. (1996 Code §
13.12.020; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Customer Line: The customer line shall begin at the end of the
service line and will be laid and maintained by and at the expense of the
property owner. The property owner shall protect such line from injury,
freezing or siphonage and be responsible for all damages resulting from leaks,
breaks or other causes. Customer line pipe shall be not less than three-fourths
inch (3/4") in size and the line shall conform to the plumbing regulations of
the city and the state of Oregon. (1996 Code § 13.12.030)
   C.   Customer Responsibility:
      1.   It is the customer's responsibility to provide, maintain or replace
all plumbing, pipes, or other materials needed to provide water service from
the city's service line.
      2.   Failure of the customer to comply with subsection C1 of this section
and maintain an adequate water delivery system on his/her property, shall
result in discontinuation of service until corrected. (1996 Code § 13.12.050;
amd. 2004 Code)
8-3-11: WATER SUPPLY AND CURTAILMENT POLICY:
Natural catastrophe, weather conditions, or other natural or artificial
conditions may make it necessary to curtail or apportion use of the City's
water. When a water shortage exists or other emergency arises, or is imminent,
which threatens to disrupt or diminish the municipal water supply, it shall be
the duty of the City Manager to immediately report the matter to the Mayor. It
shall be the duty of the Mayor, to immediately, by public notice, restrict,
regulate, allocate, or prohibit the use of water for such time as may appear
necessary for the situation. In doing so, the City shall allocate water or
curtail the use of water taking into account such issues as public health and
safety, community economic conditions, the financial and operational needs of
the water system, existing wholesale contractual obligations, and any other
considerations deemed appropriate. The City may, consistent with this section,
adopt, amend, or rescind rules, procedures, and forms to establish a water
allocation or curtailment program to be implemented in times of actual or
imminent water shortage or emergency. (1996 Code § 13.04.030; amd. Ord. 700, 3-
3-2021)
8-3-12: EXTENDING DISTRIBUTION MAINS OUTSIDE THE CITY:
Any person or entity desiring a main extension outside the City may make
written application for construction of a water main. If the applicant cannot
reasonably be served by another supplier, the City Council may approve of the
main extension if the City additionally finds that a main extension requested
will not unreasonably impair water supply or pressure to existing water service
obligations.
   A.   The City Council shall determine if the water main extension is to be
designed and constructed by the City, or if permission is to be granted for
private design and construction of the main. If privately constructed, the work
shall conform to City specifications. Upon City inspection and acceptance of
the new water system, the City shall make connection to the existing water
system. After acceptance by the City, the water main extension shall become the
property of the City.
   B.   If the City is requested to construct a main extension and approves the
application, the applicant shall pay the City the estimated cost prior to
construction. The cost includes the cost of any bond or other security required
by any subdivision of government having jurisdiction over the location of the
main extension. If the actual cost, including overhead expenses computed in
accordance with the provisions of the finance regulations of the City Code
exceeds the amount prepaid, the applicant shall pay the difference to the City.
If the actual cost computed as herein prescribed is less than the amount
prepaid by the applicant, the difference shall be refunded. When the applicant
requests a set price for such installation, the City may at its discretion
establish a price based on the estimated cost and in no case after a set price
has been established shall refunds or additional charges for the installation
be made except in those cases where changes have been made at the request of
the applicant.
   C.   The City shall not be responsible for any change or enlargement of the
main or main extension outside the City, and shall not be responsible for any
portion of the cost of reconstructing or changing the main or main extension
because of subsequent improvement of any public work, except by written
agreement approved by the City Council.
8-3-13: WATER SUPPLY TO WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS BY CONTRACT:
The City Manager may enter into and execute agreements to supply water to
wholesale distributors outside City Limits, subject to relevant provisions
within the City Code and in accordance with the rates established by the City
Council. The City may temporarily suspend water delivery to wholesale
distributors for the purpose of making repairs or improvements to its system
and during any emergency. The City may apportion any available water supply in
that manner which appears most equitable under the circumstances with due
consideration for public health and safety, giving priority to City residents
and existing service agreements.
8-3-14: PRIVATELY OWNED WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS:
The City may permit group water deliveries to a privately owned system within
the City limits through a master meter that meets City engineering
specifications upon approval by the City Council. Prior to supplying water to a
privately owned system, the City shall collect a system development charge
commensurate with the number of properties served by the private system and
consistent with Chapter 2 of this Title. The City shall not supply water to a
privately owned water distribution system unless a water purchase agreement is
in effect.
Pursuant to the water purchase agreement, the City may individually meter the
properties served by the private distribution system for purposes of
calculating each property's proportionate use of water as measured at the
master meter.
8-3-15: IMPAIRMENT OF SERVICE TO OTHER PROPERTIES:
Where the use of water is intermittent or where such use produces extreme
volume or other fluctuations that may impair service to other properties, the
City may require a property owner or his or her agent to provide, at his or her
own expense, suitable equipment to reasonably limit fluctuations in use and
pressure.
CHAPTER 3
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. WATER USE 1
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Fixture Requirements
8-3A-2: Waste Of Water
8-3A-3: Damage To City System
8-3A-4: Tampering With System, Facilities
8-3A-5: Interconnections
8-3A-6: Misuse Of Fire Protection Service
8-3A-7: Backflow Prevention By Customer
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-1 of this title for definitions.
8-3A-1: FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS:
Water will not be furnished where there are leaky or defective faucets, closets
or other devices or fixtures; where there are closets or urinals without self-
closing valves, or tanks without self-closing float valves; or where leaks
exist in any pipes or fittings under private maintenance. (1996 Code §
13.16.010)
8-3A-2: WASTE OF WATER:
No customer shall cause or permit water to run or be discharged through the
fixtures, pipes or faucets on his premises in excess of the quantity actually
necessary for domestic irrigation or other lawful purposes. (1996 Code §
13.16.020)
8-3A-3: DAMAGE TO CITY SYSTEM:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall wilfully or maliciously injure or in any
manner interfere with or remove any of the pipes, valves, backflow preventers,
meters, locks, seals or other property belonging to the city or used in
connection with the city water system. Any person violating provisions of this
section shall be charged for all standard costs associated with repairing the
results of such injury or interference. (1996 Code § 13.16.030; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Failure To Pay Charges; Discontinuance Of Service: Failure to pay such
repair charges shall be deemed a basis for discontinuance of service under the
provisions of section
8-3A-3 of this title.
   C.   Damaging Property: Any person who inadvertently damages property
belonging to the city used in connection with the city water supply and
disposal system shall be charged for all standard costs associated with
repairing such damage, including, but not limited to, labor, materials and
overhead. (1996 Code § 13.16.030)
8-3A-4: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM, FACILITIES:
   A.   Tampering: No person, unless authorized by the city manager, shall: 1)
tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city water collection system,
reservoir system, pumping plant, distribution and disposal system, or metering
facilities; or 2) open or close any fire hydrant or service line stopcock.
   B.   Altering Water Service: No person shall alter the water service in a
manner which would allow service to more than one household without the filing
of an application for service and related compliance with this chapter. (1996
Code § 13.16.040)
8-3A-5: INTERCONNECTIONS:
No person shall install or maintain any physical interconnection between the
city water supply system and any other source of water supply. (1996 Code §
13.16.050)
8-3A-6: MISUSE OF FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Misuse; Meter Installation: If there is evidence of water use from a
fire protection service for other than firefighting purposes, the customer
shall be billed for all water estimated by the city to have been used, plus the
city shall install a meter in the line at the customer's expense.
   B.   Basis For Billings: All billings for past and future service shall be
based on applicable commercial rates.
   C.   Interconnections Prohibited: No interconnections shall be allowed
between a fire protection service and any other water system or use. (1996 Code
§ 13.16.060)
8-3A-7: BACKFLOW PREVENTION BY CUSTOMER 1 :
   A.   Protection Required: In the case of any premises where there is a
substance that would be objectionable, even if not hazardous to health, if
introduced into the city water system, the utility system shall be protected by
an approved double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure backflow
assembly. (1996 Code § 13.16.070; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Compliance With Government Regulations: In the case of water service to
any premises where there is any material hazardous to health which could be
introduced into the city water system, the city water system shall be protected
by applicable governmental agency regulations.
   C.   Inspection: Inspection for the need of backflow prevention devices and
annual testing for devices will be performed at the customer's expense
according to state health division administrative rules. (1996 Code §
13.16.070)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3, article C of this title.
ARTICLE B. WATER METERS 1
SECTION:
8-3B-1: City Ownership And Control
8-3B-2: Location; Maintenance
8-3B-3: Record Of Customers And Charges
8-3B-4: Group Customers And Use Of Master Meters
8-3B-5: Multiple Unit Customers
8-3B-6: Reading Of Meters
8-3B-7: Use Of Master Meter For More Than One Water Service
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 8-1-1 and
  8-3-8 of this title for definitions and city policy, respectively.
   
8-3B-1: CITY OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL:
The city shall own, install and maintain all water meters directly served by a
City water main. (1996 Code § 13.24.010; amd. Ord. 700, 3-3-2021)
8-3B-2: LOCATION; MAINTENANCE:
Every meter location shall be designated by the city. Ordinarily, the meter and
related fittings shall be installed on the public right of way outside of
buildings as near the main as practicable. The meter may be located on private
property, but only when a location within the public right of way or easement
is impracticable. The customer shall provide sufficient space and exercise
proper care to protect the city's property on the customer's premises, and, in
the event of loss or damage to the city's property on the customer's premises
arising from the neglect, carelessness or misuse by the customer, the cost of
necessary repairs or replacement shall be billed to the customer. (1996 Code §
13.24.020; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3B-3: RECORD OF CUSTOMERS AND CHARGES:
The city will keep an accurate record of all water customers and the charges
and payment for use of water. For the purpose of making charges, each meter
serving a customer's premises will be considered separately, and the readings
will not be combined except where the city, for convenience or operating
necessity, elects to install more than one meter to serve the customer. (1996
Code § 13.24.030)
8-3B-4: GROUP CUSTOMERS AND USE OF MASTER METERS:
   A.   City Policy: It is the policy of the city that the use of master water
meters in conjunction with group customers located within the city limits shall
be phased out as a primary metering method and used only as a backup metering
record. The application of this policy is intended to provide for placement of
individual customer meters in mobile home parks. (1996 Code § 13.24.040; amd.
2004 Code; Ord. 700, 3-3-2021)
   B.   Individual Shutoff Valves And Meters: All new construction and
established housing shall provide for individual shutoff valves and meters for
each dwelling unit. This includes mobile home parks.
   C.   Conversion, Expense Of Landowner: The conversion to individual metering
shall be performed at the expense of the landowner and may be performed by a
licensed plumber. The conversion, where necessary, shall be performed within
ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof.
   D.   Installation By City; Assessment Of Costs; Lien: If the landowner fails
to provide necessary shutoff valves and individual metering after having been
given thirty (30) days' written notice of his failure to comply with this
article, the city may, at its option, have individual shutoff valves and meters
installed either by the city or by an independent contractor of its choice. If
the city installs the meters and valves, the actual cost of installation plus
fifteen percent (15%) for administrative costs shall then be treated as a lien
against the affected property and shall be amortized over a twenty four (24)
month period. The cost of installation, so amortized, shall be shown as a
facility charge and billed to the landowner.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Water Service: Failure to comply with this section
shall result in discontinuation of water service to the affected property until
the same is found to be within the terms of the section.
   F.   Water Associations And Districts Outside City: The city shall continue
to serve water associations and districts outside the city through a master
meter when a current water purchase agreement is in effect. (1996 Code §
13.24.040)
8-3B-5: MULTIPLE UNIT CUSTOMERS:
If one building houses two (2) or more apartments, households or business
establishments, the water may be served through a meter for each separate
apartment, household or business establishment, at the discretion of the city.
Under normal circumstances, all water meters should be installed on city
property. If a customer wants one or more water meters to be installed on
private property, the customer is entirely responsible for installing and
maintaining the service line and customer's line from wherever it first crosses
onto private property from public property, except that the city shall own,
install and maintain all water meters and meter gaskets. Common use facilities
associated with individually metered multifamily occupancies will be served at
the residential rate and shall be in the name of the owner. This policy shall
include such usages as common laundry facilities, common water heaters or a
common water meter serving two (2) or more residential living units. (1996 Code
§ 13.24.050)
8-3B-6: READING OF METERS:
The city shall, at the direction of the city council, read water meters on a
monthly or bimonthly schedule. Billing for water service shall be consistent
with the established reading cycle. (1996 Code § 13.24.060)
8-3B-7: USE OF MASTER METER FOR MORE THAN ONE WATER SERVICE:
Upon approval by the City Council, the City may permit the master metering of
more than one (1) water service. In such case, the owners or occupants of the
premises served shall designate one (1) of their number who shall, through
written agreement with the City, be responsible for the payment of all water
charges and the acceptance of service of all water related notices. This person
shall be liable for all water related charges until the agreement is terminated
or a written agreement is established with another party. In the event payment
for water charges is not paid in full when due, the City may terminate the
service. (Ord. 700, 3-3-2021)
ARTICLE C. CROSS CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Definitions
8-3C-2: Regulation Of Cross Connections
8-3C-3: Backflow Prevention Assemblies
8-3C-4: Access To Premises
8-3C-5: Testing And Repair Of Backflow Assemblies
8-3C-6: Property Owner Responsible For Costs
8-3C-7: Discontinuance Of Water Service
8-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly to counteract backpressure
or prevent backsiphonage. This assembly must appear on the list of approved
assemblies issued by the Oregon health division.
AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water source or system other than the public water
system, that may be available in the building or on the premises.
BACKFLOW: The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases, or substances into the water system
of the city of Clatskanie's water.
CITY OR THE CITY: The city of Clatskanie.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply system of
any substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement where a public water system is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other nondrinkable water system or
auxiliary system, sewer, drain conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir,
plumbing fixture, swamp cooler, or any other device which contains, or may
contain, contaminated water, sewage, or other liquid of unknown or unsafe
quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water
system as a result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections,
removable sections, swivel or changeover devices, or other temporary or
permanent devices through which, or because of which, backflow may occur, are
considered to be cross connections.
DEGREE OF HAZARD: Shall be derived from the evaluation of a health, system,
plumbing, or pollutional hazard.
DIRECTOR: The director of public works of the city of Clatskanie.
HEALTH HAZARD: An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical or
toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer's potable water
system that would be a danger to health.
PLUMBING HAZARD: An actual or potential threat to the physical properties of
the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer's potable
water system but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as
defined. The maximum degree of intensity of pollution to which the potable
water system could be degraded under this definition would cause a nuisance or
be aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage to the system or its
appurtenances.
POLLUTIONAL HAZARD: An actual or potential threat to the physical properties of
the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer's potable
water system but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as
defined. The maximum degree of intensity of pollution to which the potable
water system could be degraded under this definition would cause a nuisance or
be aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage to the system or its
appurtenances.
POTABLE WATER SUPPLY: Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic use.
PREMISES: Any piece of land to which water is provided, including all
improvements, mobile home(s) and structures located on it.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY: An assembly containing two (2),
independently acting, approved check valves together with a hydraulically
operated, mechanically independent, pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves. The assembly shall include properly located test
cocks and tightly closing shutoff valves at the end of the assembly. A check
valve is approved if it appears on the list of approved assemblies issued by
the Oregon health division.
SYSTEM HAZARD: An actual or potential threat of severe danger to the physical
properties of the public or consumer's potable water system or of a pollution
or contamination which would have a detrimental effect on the potable water in
the system. (1996 Code § 13.26.010)
8-3C-2: REGULATION OF CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No cross connections shall be created, installed, used or maintained within the
boundaries of the city jurisdiction, except in accordance with this article.
(1996 Code § 13.26.020)
8-3C-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES 1 :
   A.   Conditions For Requiring Installation: Approved backflow prevention
assemblies shall be installed at the expense of the user, either at the service
connection or within the premises, as determined by a certified cross
connection inspector employed by the city whenever:
      1.   The nature and extent of any activity of the premises, or the
materials used in connection with any activity of the premises, or materials
stored on the premises, could contaminate or pollute the drinking water supply.
      2.   Premises having any one or more "cross connections" as that term is
defined in section
8-3C-1 of this article are identified or are present.
      3.   Internal cross connections that are not correctable, or intricate
plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain whether or not
cross connections exist or are present.
      4.   There is a repeated history of cross connections being established
or reestablished.
      5.   There is unduly restricted entry so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or with sufficient notice
to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      6.   Materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are being used such that,
if backflow should occur, a health hazard could result.
      7.   Any mobile apparatus which uses city water or water from any
premises within the boundaries of the city jurisdiction.
      8.   Installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly is deemed
to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of these regulations in the judgment
of a certified cross connection specialist employed by the city.
      9.   An appropriate cross connection report form has not been filed with
the city.
      10.   A fire sprinkler system using nonpotable piping material is
connected to the city water system.
   B.   Residential Properties, Liability: All residential properties occupied
by persons other than the property owner shall install an approved backflow
prevention assembly, or the property owner shall assume all responsibility for
any backflow that should occur.
   C.   Double Check Valve Assembly: All service connections two inches (2")
and larger will be required to have a minimum of a double check valve assembly
or as directed by the director of public works. (1996 Code § 13.26.030)
   D.   Installation Requirements: To ensure proper operation and accessibility
of all backflow prevention assemblies, the following requirements shall apply
to the installation of these assemblies:
      1.   No part of the backflow prevention assembly shall be submerged in
water or installed in a location subject to flooding. If installed in a vault
or basement, adequate drainage shall be provided.
      2.   Assemblies must be installed at the point of delivery of the water
supply, before any branch in the line, on private property located just inside
of the property line. Alternate locations must be approved in writing by the
city.
      3.   The assembly must be protected from freezing and other severe
weather conditions.
      4.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be of a type and model
approved by the Oregon health division and the city.
      5.   Only assemblies specifically approved by the Oregon health division
for vertical installation may be installed vertically. No assembly over four
inches (4") shall be installed vertically.
      6.   The assembly shall be readily accessible with adequate room for
maintenance and testing. Assemblies two inches (2") and smaller shall have at
least eight inch (8") clearance on all sides of the assembly. All assemblies
larger than two inches (2") shall have a minimum clearance of twelve inches
(12") on the back side, twenty four inches (24") on the test cock side, twelve
inches (12") below the assembly and thirty six inches (36") above the assembly.
"Y" pattern double check valve assemblies shall be installed so that the checks
are horizontal and the test cocks face upward.
      7.   The property owner assumes all responsibility for all maintenance
and testing of the assembly, as determined and required by the city.
      8.   If written permission is granted to install the backflow assembly
inside of the building, the assembly shall be readily accessible during regular
working hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday.
      9.   If an assembly, with written permission, is installed inside the
premises and is four inches (4") or larger and is installed four feet (4')
above the floor, it must be equipped with a rigidly and permanently installed
scaffolding acceptable to the city. This installation must also meet the
requirements set out by the U.S. occupational safety and health administration
and the Oregon occupational safety and health codes.
      10.   Reduced pressure principle assemblies may be installed in a vault
only if relief valve discharge can be drained to daylight through a "boresight"
type drain located above the 100-year floodplain as specified by the city's
current floodplain map. The drain shall be of adequate capacity to carry the
full rated flow of the assembly and shall be screened on both ends.
      11.   An approved air gap shall be located at the relief valve orifice.
This air gap shall be at least twice the inside diameter of the incoming supply
line as measured vertically above the top rim of the drain and in no case less
than one inch (1").
      12.   A backflow permit shall be obtained by the property owner prior to
any new backflow assembly installation. With the permit, the owner and/or
contractor will be provided with a city cross connection ordinance and will be
advised as to the minimum type of backflow assembly required and as to the
locations that will be acceptable to the city.
      13.   Upon completion of installation, the city shall be notified and all
assemblies must be inspected and tested. All backflow prevention assemblies
must be registered with the city. Registration shall consist of date of
installation, make, model, serial number of the backflow assembly, and initial
test report.
      14.   Any water pressure drop caused by the installation of a backflow
assembly is not the responsibility of the city.
      15.   It is the responsibility of the property owner to eliminate the
possibility of thermal expansion if a closed system has been created by the
installation of a backflow assembly.
      16.   All new plumbing construction shall be evaluated as to the need for
a backflow assembly before the issuance of all plumbing permits within the
boundaries of the city jurisdiction. (1996 Code § 13.26.040)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-3A-7 of this title.
8-3C-4: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Authorized employees of the city, with proper identification, shall have access
during reasonable hours to all parts of the premises and within the building to
which water is supplied. However, if any water user refuses access to the
premises or to the interior of a structure at a reasonable time and on
reasonable notice for inspection by a cross connection specialist appointed by
the city, a reduced pressure principle assembly will be required to be
installed at the service connection to the premises. (1996 Code § 13.26.050)
8-3C-5: TESTING AND REPAIR OF BACKFLOW ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Testing; Notice; Time Limit: All backflow assemblies installed within
the jurisdiction of the city shall be tested immediately after installation and
then annually on or by January 31 by a state certified tester. The city will
send out notices of reminder that a test is due. If the test is not completed
within fifteen (15) days after the anniversary date, a second notice in the
form of a registered letter, return receipt requested will be sent. If the
backflow assembly is not tested within fifteen (15) days of the second and
final notice, the water service will be disconnected from the city water
system. The city retains the right to have the assembly tested in special
circumstances, rather than terminating the water service. Special circumstances
may consist of, but are not limited to: retirement homes, rental homes,
hospitals, group homes, homes in which water dependent devices are in use (such
as kidney dialysis machines), or any other circumstance where the city deems it
a health risk to terminate water service. (1996 Code § 13.26.060; amd. 2004
Code)
   B.   Repair Of Faulty Assemblies: Forty eight (48) hours' notice shall be
given prior to all backflow testing to the director of public works. This
notice is required as to allow the city cross connection inspector to be on
site to observe the test. If the owner, tester, or contractor fails to comply
with this forty eight (48) hour notice, the city will not accept the device
test and a retest will be required in the presence of a city inspector. All
backflow assemblies found not functioning properly shall be promptly repaired
or replaced by the water user. If any such assembly is not promptly repaired or
replaced, the city may deny or discontinue water to the premises. All testing
and repairs are the financial responsibility of the water user. (1996 Code §
13.26.060)
8-3C-6: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS:
All costs associated with purchase, installation, inspection, testing,
replacement, maintenance, part, and repair of the backflow assembly are the
financial responsibility of the property owner. (1996 Code § 13.26.070)
8-3C-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
Failure on the part of any customer to discontinue the use of all cross
connections and to physically separate cross connections is sufficient cause
for the immediate discontinuance of public water service to the premises (in
accordance with Oregon administrative rules chapter 333-061-070, section 1).
(1996 Code § 13.26.080)
CHAPTER 4
WATER AND SEWER RATES AND REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
8-4-1: Payment Required
8-4-2: Monthly Rates
8-4-3: Special Rates
8-4-4: Payment Of Bills
8-4-5: Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service
8-4-6: Reinstatement Of Service After Termination
8-4-7: Conditions Of Service Generally
8-4-8: Record Of Customer Accounts
8-4-9: Failure To Read Meter
8-4-10: After Hours Turn Ons And Turn Offs
8-4-11: Connection Fees
8-4-12: Resale Prohibited
8-4-13: Connection From Roof Or Storm Drains Prohibited
8-4-14: Master Meters
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-1 of this title for definitions.
8-4-1: PAYMENT REQUIRED:
Any customer whose property is connected to city facilities for water or sewer
service shall pay a new customer account setup fee and all applicable fees and
charges, including monthly charges for continued service. (2004 Code)
8-4-2: MONTHLY RATES:
   A.   Water Users: Monthly rates, which apply to all users of the city water
system, shall be set by resolution of the city council after public hearing.
Rates may vary with regard to various categories of use and location of
service, such as inside or outside the city, as the city council deems
equitable. Rates may be comprised of a base fee and a consumption fee.
   B.   Industrial Users: Although no industrial users are currently on the
city water system, a rate for future industrial water use will be determined
pursuant to a formula acceptable to federal and state law. (2004 Code)
8-4-3: SPECIAL RATES:
The city council shall have the authority by resolution to establish special
rates. (2004 Code)
8-4-4: PAYMENT OF BILLS:
   A.   Customer Defined: For purposes of this title, "customer" shall mean the
owner of record of the property served. The owner of record to which water and/
or sewer is being provided is responsible for the payment of bills under the
provisions of this title. In the case of group deliveries, wholesale
deliveries, or deliveries to privately owned water distribution systems
"customer" shall mean the individual or entity on the water purchase agreement.
   B.   Monthly Payments; Due Date: Charges for water and sewer service shall
be shown on the same bill, and all charges are due and payable monthly to the
city on the tenth of each month.
   C.   Payments To City: No city employee, other than an authorized employee
at city hall, shall accept payment in any form for water or sewer service, or
be allowed to make arrangements for delayed payment. Any financial or account
transaction must be made at city hall. A nonsufficient fund (NSF) penalty will
be charged for any bad check received for payment. A cash payment must be
received by the city for any NSF amount plus the NSF penalty. (2004 Code; amd.
Ord. 700, 3-3-2021)
8-4-5: DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Late Payment Fee: A utility bill not paid by the tenth of each month is
delinquent. A late payment fee may be charged to any bill that is unpaid for
fourteen (14) days or more past the due date.
   B.   Circumstances For Discontinuance: Water service to any customer may be
discontinued under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   When a bill is unpaid and delinquent for fourteen (14) days or more
past the due date, service may be terminated.
      2.   When a customer fails to make proper application for service or
obtains city service without proper city authorization, service may be
terminated.
   C.   Arrangement For Delayed Payments: Any arrangement for delayed payment
shall be made in writing and must be approved by the city manager.
   D.   Multiple Properties: The city may discontinue service at any and all
properties of which the delinquent customer is the owner of record in the event
of a delinquent bill at any of said properties.
   E.   Charges As Lien; Foreclosure: Delinquent service charges and all unpaid
account balances may be recorded as a lien against the property and recorded
with the Columbia County clerk, and shall be made accessible for inspection by
anyone interested in ascertaining the amount of such charge against the
property. Whenever a bill for service remains unpaid sixty (60) days after it
has been rendered, the lien thereby created may be foreclosed in the manner
provided for by state law or in any other manner provided by city ordinance.
(2004 Code)
8-4-6: REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE AFTER TERMINATION:
A person may apply to the city to have service reinstated after service has
been discontinued or terminated. A turn on fee will be charged to the customer
in order to have service reinstated. The turn on fee and all unpaid account
balances, including late fees and all other charges, will be paid before
service is reinstated. All NSF amounts and NSF penalties must be paid in cash.
(2004 Code)
8-4-7: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE GENERALLY:
Service to customers shall be subject to the rules, regulations and rates
applicable thereto and in effect at the time service is accepted or as they may
be adopted or modified by the city council. Service to individuals or groups
may be discontinued for failure of customer to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and related rules, regulations and administrative policies. (2004
Code)
8-4-8: RECORD OF CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS:
The city will keep an accurate record of all customer transactions and all fees
and charges applied by the city to each customer account. For the purpose of
making charges, each meter servicing a customer's premises will be considered
separately and the readings will not be combined, except where the city, for
convenience or operating necessity, elects to install more than one meter to
serve the customer. (2004 Code)
8-4-9: FAILURE TO READ METER:
In the event it is impossible or impractical to read a meter during the billing
cycle, the bill shall be computed based upon the customer's previous six (6)
month average. If there is no usage history, the bill shall be computed using
comparable usage total for other similarly situated customers. Failure by the
city to read the meter does not relieve the customer's obligation to pay for
actual or estimated usage. (2004 Code)
8-4-10: AFTER HOURS TURN ONS AND TURN OFFS:
When requested, water service will be turned on or turned off only upon payment
of the appropriate fee for the service. (2004 Code)
8-4-11: CONNECTION FEES:
Any connection fee for water or sewer service shall be determined by adopted
resolution or ordinance of the city council after a public hearing. (2004 Code)
8-4-12: RESALE PROHIBITED:
No person shall resell or redistribute any water from the city water system to
any property or person without explicit written authorization from the city.
Rate schedules and fees are based on the sale of service to one specific
customer for use at one particular location. (2004 Code)
8-4-13: CONNECTION FROM ROOF OR STORM DRAINS PROHIBITED:
No drain pipes from the roof of any building shall be connected with side sewer
or main sewer lines, nor shall any storm drains from any yard, basement, garage
or similar building, or any drain in any street, be connected with a side sewer
or main sewer line. (2004 Code)
8-4-14: MASTER METERS:
Where water is distributed through a master meter to members within a group,
the rate to each member shall be no higher than that which the city would
charge that member if he were served directly by the city, except that lawfully
organized cooperative groups or districts may set rates different from those of
the city if such rates are submitted to and approved by the city council before
going into effect. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose And Policy
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Franchise Conditions And Exceptions
8-5-4: Customer Responsibility
8-5-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
It is declared to be the public policy of the city to regulate solid waste
collection in order to:
   A.   Promote safe, economical, and comprehensive solid waste collection
service.
   B.   Maintain fair and equitable consumer rates.
   C.   Protect the public health and safety and encourage progressive
environmental planning. (1996 Code § 13.50.010)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS: The "resource conservation and recovery act", the "toxic
substance control act", the "comprehensive environmental response, compensation
and liability act", the "solid waste disposal act" or any comparable federal or
state statutes or any regulation promulgated under any of such federal or state
statutes relating to the protection of human health or the environment.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any and all hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes
as defined or listed under the environmental laws.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Means and includes:
Biological Waste: Blood and blood products, excretions, and exudates.
Secretions, suctionings and other bodily fluids that cannot be directly
discarded into a municipal sewer system, and waste materials saturated with
blood or body fluids, but does not include diapers soiled with urine or feces.
Culture And Stocks: Etiologic agents and associated biologicals, including
specimen cultures and dishes and devices used to transfer, inoculate and mix
cultures, wastes from production of biologicals, and serums and discarded live
and attenuated vaccines. "Cultures" does not include throat and urine cultures.
Pathological Waste: Biopsy materials and all human tissues, anatomical parts
that emanate from surgery, obstetrical procedures, autopsy and laboratory
procedures and animal carcasses exposed to pathogens in research and the
bedding and other waste from such animals. "Pathological waste" does not
include teeth or formaldehyde or other preservative agents.
Sharps: Needles, IV tubing with needles attached, scalpel blades, lancets,
glass tubes that could be broken during handling and syringes that have been
removed from their original sterile containers. (1996 Code § 13.50.020)
8-5-3: FRANCHISE CONDITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   City Council Authority: The city council may grant an exclusive
franchise or nonexclusive franchise to qualified individuals or firms for the
collection and disposal of solid waste. Such franchise or franchises will only
be granted to persons or firms determined by the council, in its sole
discretion, to be able to provide the service in accordance with the council's
goals and policies, and in compliance with the provisions of this code. The
council reserves the right to attach any additional conditions or performance
standards it deems necessary to any franchise agreement.
   B.   Rates And Fees Determined By Council Resolution: The city shall
determine all rates and fees charged for solid waste collection by resolution
adopted by the council. In determining rates, the council shall give due
consideration to current and projected revenues and expenses, actual and
overhead expenses, the cost of acquiring and replacing equipment, the services
of owner and management, the cost of providing for future, added, or different
services, a reasonable operating margin for doing business, research and
development, and such other factors as the council may deem relevant.
   C.   Exclusions From Franchise Requirements: Nothing in this chapter
requires a franchise from the following persons for the following businesses or
practices:
      1.   The collection, transportation and reuse of repairable or cleanable
discards by a private charitable organization regularly engaged in such
business or activity, including, without limitation, the Salvation Army, St.
Vincent De Paul, Turning Point, Community Action Team, Inc., and similar
organizations.
      2.   The collection, transportation and reuse or recycling of totally
source separated materials or operation of a collection center for totally
source separated materials by a religious, charitable, benevolent, civic, or
fraternal organization, which was not organized for any solid waste management
purpose, and which organization is using the activity for fund raising
including, without limitation, scouts, churches, Kiwanis, VFW, fraternal
organizations, and the chamber of commerce.
      3.   The collection, transportation or redemption of returnable beverage
containers under Oregon Revised Statutes 459A and that portion thereof commonly
known as the "Bottle Bill".
      4.   Persons who transport and dispose of waste created as an incidental
part of regularly carrying on such businesses or services as auto wrecking,
demolition, land clearing or construction, janitorial service, gardening, park
maintenance, landscaping service, auto body recovery, and septic tank pumping
or sludge collection. This exemption does not include the collection,
transportation or disposal of accumulated or stored solid waste generated or
produced by customers of such businesses or services.
      5.   The transportation, in a lawful manner by persons, of solid waste,
waste or recyclable material generated or produced by such person to a disposal
site, resource recovery site or market, with said transportation being either
for the purpose of sale or disposal. In the case of nonowner occupied property,
such material must be generated or produced and owned by the tenant or
occupant, and not by the landlord, property owner, cooperative or association
of property owners, or the agent of such landlord, property owner, cooperative,
or association. The intent of this provision is that landlords, property
owners, and associations shall not collect, transport, or dispose of their
tenants' solid waste.
      6.   The purchase of totally source separated solid waste for fair market
value.
      7.   The providing of service for hazardous wastes.
      8.   Any other practice, business, or activity which is determined by the
council, after public hearing thereon, and upon adoption of a resolution
finding that such practice, business, or activity has no substantial impact on
service, consumer rates or the intent of this chapter.
   D.   Soliciting Customers For Service Prohibited: Unless exempted by this
chapter, no person who is not presently providing service as of the effective
date hereof shall solicit customers for solid waste collection service,
advertise for providing solid waste collection service, or provide such service
for compensation within the city. For purposes of this provision,
"compensation" shall be defined as: 1) any type of consideration paid for
service including, but not limited to, rent, the proceeds from resource
recovery, any direct or indirect provision for the payment of money, goods,
services or benefits by tenants, lessees, occupants, members or similarly
situated persons; 2) the exchange of service between persons; or 3) the flow of
consideration from a person possessing or generating solid waste to another
person who provides services or from a person providing services to another
person owning, possessing, or generating solid waste. (1996 Code § 13.50.030)
8-5-4: CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Infectious Or Hazardous Waste; Damage To Containers:
      1.   No person shall place infectious or hazardous waste for collection
or disposal by the city or the city's franchisee, hereinafter referred to as
the "collector". Special arrangements shall be made by the customer with the
collector for the collection of infectious waste.
      2.   No person shall place or cause to be placed any hazardous materials,
and materials such as chemicals, paint, corrosive materials, infectious waste,
and hot ashes in a can, cart, container, or drop box. When such materials or
customer abuse, fire, or vandalism cause excessive wear or damage to a cart,
container or drop box, the costs of repair or replacement may be charged to the
customer.
   B.   Use Of Containers Restricted: No person shall place material in or
remove material from a solid waste collection container without permission of
the owner of the container.
   C.   Removal Of Solid Waste Placed For Collection: No person shall remove
solid waste placed out for collection and resource recovery by the collector or
a person exempted by this chapter and operating solely within the exemption.
   D.   Solid Waste Below Ground: No person shall leave solid waste to be
collected below ground.
   E.   Can Or Cart Placement Restricted: No person shall locate a can or cart
for residential service behind any locked or latched door, gate or inside any
building or structure.
   F.   Safe Access To Containers: No person shall provide other than a safe
access to the solid waste container or wastes. The collector may charge a
reasonable extra fee for return service to such container or wastes. No person
shall permanently locate such container or wastes on or in any public right of
way without written authorization of the city.
   G.   Containers For Mechanical Pick Up: No person shall cause a container
designed for mechanical pick up to exceed safe loading weights or volumes as
established by the collector to protect service workers, the customer, the
public and the collection equipment.
   H.   Containers For Manual Pick Up: No person shall provide a container
designed for manual pick up that exceeds thirty two (32) gallons in size or
sixty (60) pounds in loaded weight. Such containers shall be made of metal or
be rigid, fireproof, rodentproof, and not subject to cracking or splitting, and
shall have proper handholds or bales.
   I.   Bundled Solid Waste: Unless special service or service equipment is
provided by the collector for handling unconfined waste, no person shall leave
for manual pick up and collection materials such as rubbish and refuse, brush,
leaves, tree cuttings and other debris, except in securely tied bundles or in a
box, sack or other receptacle. Solid waste so bundled, tied, or contained shall
not exceed sixty (60) pounds in weight.
   J.   Contract For Special Service: No person requiring an unusual volume of
service or a special type of service requiring substantial investment in
equipment shall refuse to enter into a contract with the customer as necessary
to finance and assure amortization of such equipment. The purpose of this
provision is to assure that such equipment not become a charge against other
customers who are not benefitted.
   K.   Overfilling Containers: No person shall overfill a can, cart or
container so that the lid cannot be securely closed. If a can, cart or
container is overfilled, an additional reasonable fee may be charged. If the
contents of a container, cart or drop box are compacted (either mechanically or
manually), the compactor rate shall be charged.
   L.   Stationary Compacting Devices: No person shall utilize stationary
compacting devices for solid wastes, except those that comply with federal,
state, and city safety standards and provide adequate protection to the user.
   M.   Transporting Solid Waste; Dropping Load: No person shall use any
vehicle to transport solid waste unless it is so loaded and operated as to
prevent the wastes from dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing, or otherwise
escaping from the vehicle onto the public right of way or adjacent lands.
   N.   Maintenance Of Containers; Accumulations Of Waste Prohibited: No person
shall fail to maintain and clean cans, and containers provided by that person.
No such person shall allow the accumulation of wastes in the area around such
cans and containers shall be kept free from accumulated wastes. The collector
shall provide maintenance to containers supplied by the collector. (1996 Code §
13.50.040)
TITLE 9
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; INTERPRETATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purposes
9-1-3: Compliance With Regulations
9-1-4: Interpretation Of Terms, Regulations
9-1-5: Appeal Of Interpretation
9-1-6: Severability
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE CITY OF CLATSKANIE and
shall be referred to herein as "this title". (1996 Code § 17.04.010)
9-1-2: PURPOSES:
   A.   General: It is the general purpose of this title to provide the
principal means for the implementation of the Clatskanie comprehensive plan.
This title is designed to regulate the division of land and to classify,
designate, and regulate the location and use of buildings, structures, and
land; and to divide the city into zones to carry out these regulations and
provide for their enforcement.
   B.   Special: This title also has the following special purposes:
      1.   To promote coordinated, sound development with consideration for the
city's natural environment, amenities, views, and the appearance of its
buildings and open spaces;
      2.   To achieve a balanced and efficient land use pattern, to protect and
enhance real property values, to promote safe and uncongested traffic movement
and to avoid uses and development that might be detrimental to the stability
and livability of the city;
      3.   To safeguard and enhance the appearance of the city through the
advancement of effective land use, architectural design and city planning;
      4.   To aid in the rendering of fire and police protection;
      5.   To provide adequate open spaces for light and air;
      6.   To prevent undue concentration of population;
      7.   To facilitate adequate provisions for community utilities and
facilities; and
      8.   In general, to promote public health, safety, convenience and the
general welfare. (1996 Code § 17.04.020)
9-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zoning Regulations:
      1.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by this title, no building
or other structure shall be constructed, improved, altered, enlarged or moved,
nor shall any use or occupancy of premises within the city be commenced or
changed, after the effective date hereof, except in conformity with conditions
prescribed for each of the several zones, and general regulations established
hereunder. No person shall divide land without first complying with the
provisions of this title and the laws of the state of Oregon. It is unlawful
for any person to erect, construct, establish, move into, alter, enlarge, use,
or cause to be used, any building, structure, improvement or use of premises
located in any zone in a manner contrary to the provisions of this title.
      2.   Where this title imposes greater restrictions than those imposed or
required by other regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this title shall
control. (1996 Code § 17.04.030)
   B.   Land Development: No person shall develop, use or transfer land in
violation of this title. It shall be the duty of the city manager to determine
the applicability of this title for enforcement purposes. All city staff with
the authority to issue permits, certificates or licenses for any purpose shall
do so in conformance with this title. (1996 Code § 17.04.100)
9-1-4: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS, REGULATIONS:
The city manager shall have the authority to interpret all terms, provisions
and requirements of this title. The city manager shall not substitute an
interpretation in conflict with any ruling or decision of the planning
commission. A request for interpretation may be made orally or in writing. The
city manager's interpretation may be appealed to the planning commission for
its interpretation. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-1-5: APPEAL OF INTERPRETATION:
If the person making the request disagrees with the planning commission's
interpretation, such person may appeal it to the city council. The council will
hear the appeal as a consideration item at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. (1996 Code § 17.04.080)
9-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this title are severable. If any section, sentence, clause or
phrase is adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions. (1996 Code §
17.04.140)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Interpretation Generally
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1: INTERPRETATION GENERALLY:
The terms or words used in this title shall be interpreted as follows where the
context demands:
   A.   Words in the present tense include the future.
   B.   The singular number includes the plural and vice versa.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is
permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   The term "this title" shall be deemed to include the text, the
accompanying zoning map and all amendments made to either after the effective
date hereof. (1996 Code § 17.04.060)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this title shall have the meanings given in this
section, as follows:
ABUT: Contiguous to; adjoining with a common boundary line (see illustration,
appendix A, on file at city hall).
ACCESS: The place, means or way by which pedestrians, vehicles, or both, shall
have safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a property or use. A
private access is one not in public ownership or control by means of deed,
dedication or easement.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE: A structure or use incidental, appropriate and
subordinate to the main structure or use.
ACRE: A measure of land containing forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet.
ADJACENT: A parcel, property, or use next to the subject site or separated only
by public right of way.
ADULT BUSINESS: Any person, group, firm, business, or organization that
prohibits admission to all or a portion of the premises to any persons younger
than twenty one (21) years of age.
ADVERSE POSSESSION: The right of an occupant to acquire title to a property by
having continuously and openly used and maintained a property over a statutory
period of time.
AGRICULTURAL USE: Means and includes farming, dairying, pasturage,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, apiaries, animal and poultry
husbandry.
ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL: "Structural alteration" means any change or repair of
the supporting members of a building or structure. Any change in the external
dimensions of the building is a structural alteration.
APARTMENT: One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen comprising an
independent, self-contained dwelling unit, located in a building which is
occupied as a residence.
APPEAL: A request for review of any interpretation or decision regarding any
provision in this code including a variance.
APPLICANT: The owner of the affected property, or such owner's authorized agent
or representative.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone of the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident. AO is characterized as
sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
AO is characterized as sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or land area used, or intended to be
used, for the retail sale of vehicular fuels. It may include, as an accessory
use, the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries and similar
accessories.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: See definition of Junkyard.
AWNING: A shelter projecting from, and supported by, the exterior wall of a
building on a supporting framework. The awning may be constructed of rigid or
nonrigid material.
BASE FLOOD: Also referred to as the "100-year flood", means the flood having a
one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Designation on flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) always includes the letters A
or V.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The water surface elevation during the base flood
in relation to a specified datum. The base flood elevation (BFE) is depicted on
the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1 foot.
BASEMENT: Any floor level below the first story in a building; except, that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement, unless such floor level qualifies as a first "story" as defined
herein. For the purpose of complying with chapter 9, article B, "FH Flood
Hazard Zone", of this title, basement means any area of the building having its
floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A use subordinate to the principal use of a single-
family dwelling, and involving not more than three (3) bedrooms, which provides
temporary overnight lodging and a morning meal in return for compensation. The
owner or manager must reside on site. The building design must be compatible
with the residential neighborhood and be inspected by both the fire district
and the county.
BELOW GRADE CRAWL SPACE: An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the
crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation, does not exceed four feet
(4') at any point.
BERM: A manmade mound of earth, two (2) to six feet (6') high with a two to one
(2:1) slope (see illustration, appendix A, on file at city hall), used to
deflect sound or to buffer incompatible areas.
BIKE LANE, PATH OR WAY: Any trail, path or part of a highway shoulder, sidewalk
or any other travelway specifically signed and/or marked for bicycle travel.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The planning commission shall act as the "board of
adjustment" for the purposes of this title.
BOND: Any form of security, including a cash deposit, surety bond, collateral,
property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the
city.
BUFFER: A landscaped area providing separation between uses, or as a shield to
block noise, lights and other nuisances.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
finished grade to the highest point of the structure excluding certain
appurtenances.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to the street right of way, at a distance equal
to the depth of the required front yard.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: "Principal building" means the structure within which is
conducted the principal use of the lot.
CARPORT: A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles, and having not more than three (3) sides enclosed.
CENTERLINE: The centerline of a street shall be the line that coincides with
the centerline of the original right of way, or as established by the city.
CITY: The city of Clatskanie, Oregon.
CITY MANAGER: The appointed chief administrative officer of the city, who is
responsible for the administration of all city ordinances.
COMMUNICATION TOWER: Any tower, lattice, monopole, or other type of structure,
used for transmitting and/or receiving signals to or from other communication
towers or communication equipment including, but not limited to, cell phones,
radios or televisions.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan for the guidance of growth and improvement of the
city, including any amendments that may be made from time to time.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the city stating that the use must
meet all of the conditions placed on it by the planning commission and by this
title.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail store containing less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet of gross floor area designed and stocked to sell primarily food,
beverage and other household supplies to customers purchasing only a relatively
few items (in contrast to a "supermarket").
COUNCIL: The city council of Clatskanie, Oregon.
COURTYARD: A landscaped area enclosed by two (2) or more walls.
COVERAGE, BUILDING OR LOT: "Building or lot coverage" means the percentage of
the total lot area covered by buildings.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might
be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations,
installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste.
CURB LINE: The line indicating the edge of the vehicular roadway within the
overall right of way.
DAYCARE: Care provided to not more than five (5) unrelated children during a
period not to exceed twelve (12) hours in a twenty four (24) hour day.
DAYS: Calendar days, unless working days are specified, which shall mean Monday
through Friday, exclusive of official city holidays.
DE NOVO: A new hearing, usually without consideration of any previous hearing
testimony.
DEDICATION: The donation of property by its owner to the city for any public
purpose (e.g., the construction or widening of a street).
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units allowed on a parcel of land, frequently
expressed as the number of units per acre.
DENSITY, GROSS: "Gross density" includes in the computation of density all of
the land within the boundaries of the lot.
DENSITY, NET: "Net density" excludes from the computation of density those
lands necessary for streets and underground utilities, as well as easements,
floodways and steep slopes.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
DWELLING, APARTMENT: "Apartment dwelling" means a single building, or portion
thereof, containing four (4) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SEMIDETACHED: "Semidetached dwelling" means two (2) dwelling units,
each located on a separate lot, sharing a fire resistant common wall which
follows the property line.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: "Single-family dwelling" means one dwelling unit,
structurally separated from any other dwelling on the same lot.
DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY OR TRIPLEX: "Three-family dwelling" or "triplex" means a
structure on a single lot containing three (3) dwelling units connected by
either fire resistant common walls, unpierced from ground to roof, and/or an
unpierced ceiling and floor.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY OR DUPLEX: "Two-family dwelling" or "duplex" means a
structure on a single lot containing two (2) dwelling units connected by either
a fire resistant common wall, unpierced from ground to roof, and/or an
unpierced ceiling and floor.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation
as required by the applicable codes designed for occupancy by only one family
(see definition of Family).
EASEMENT: The granting, by a recorded interest, of one or more property rights
by the owner to the public, another person or entity.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building which has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, post, piers, pilings, or columns.
EMPLOYEES: All persons, including proprietors, working on the premises during
the largest shift.
FAMILY: One or more individuals related by blood or marriage, or up to five (5)
unrelated individuals, occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single
household.
FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: "Sight obscuring fence" means a fence or wall
constructed in such a way as to obstruct vision from a point not more than one
foot (1') above grade to a maximum height of six feet (6').
FINAL ACTION: A final determination made by the review body, accompanied by
adopted findings, and signed by the review body.
FINDINGS: A written statement of fact, conclusions and determinations based on
the evidence presented at a public hearing in relation to the criteria and
accepted by the review body in support of their decision.
FLAG LOT: A lot which has access to a right of way by means of a narrow strip
of land (see illustration, appendix A, on file at city hall).
FLOOD FRINGE: The area bordering the floodway, and within the floodplain, that
acts as a reservoir of floodwaters (see illustration, appendix A, on file at
city hall).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODPLAIN: The combined area of the "floodway" and the "flood fringe", as
defined in this chapter (see illustration, appendix A, on file at city hall).
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
FLOOR AREA: The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
building, or portion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The floor
area of a building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior
walls shall be the usable area located under the horizontal projection of the
roof or floor above.
FRONT LOT LINE: The lot line separating a lot from the street right of way.
FRONTAGE: The side of a lot abutting a street; the length of the front lot line
(see illustration, appendix A, on file at city hall).
GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL: A "residential garage" is a fully enclosed building used
for the parking or storage of not more than the number of vehicles, trailers,
or boats as possessed by a resident or owner of the principal residential
building.
GRADE: The degree or rise of a sloping surface (see illustration, appendix A,
on file at city hall).
GRADE, FINISH: "Finish grade" means the final elevation of the ground surface
after development.
GRANDFATHER CLAUSE: See definition of Nonconforming Use.
GROUP CARE HOME: Facilities providing convalescent care to elderly or
physically dependent people for periods exceeding twenty four (24) hours; or
providing daily care and training for physically or mentally handicapped
people.
GUEST HOUSE: An accessory building used for the purpose of providing temporary
living accommodations and having no cooking facilities.
HEDGE, SIGHT OBSCURING: "Sight obscuring hedge" means an evergreen barrier
grown for the purpose of obstructing vision, which shall be at least two feet
(2') tall at the time of planting, and capable of obscuring at least eighty
percent (80%) of the view between two (2) and six feet (6') from the ground
within five (5) years of planting.
HIGHWAY, STATE: "State highway" means a primary or secondary state highway that
has been so designated by the Oregon transportation commission.
HISTORIC BUILDING OR SITE: Any building or site designated by the city as a
landmark based on its special historical or architectural value, character or
interest as part of the development, heritage or history of neighboring
residents.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
      1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
HOME OCCUPATION: A lawful, income producing activity conducted in a dwelling
while maintaining the residential character, having no outward appearance of a
business and no infringement on the rights of neighboring residents (see
section
9-13-4 of this title).
HOTEL/MOTEL: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy with no
provisions for cooking in any individual room or suite.
IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, parking facility, fence, gate, wall,
other object constituting a physical betterment of real property, or any part
of such betterment.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: A large tract of land that has been planned as an integrated
facility for a number of individual industrial uses, with special attention
given to traffic circulation, parking, utility needs, landscaping and
compatibility of uses.
JUNKYARD: Any land area, building or part thereof used for the storage,
collection, processing, sale, purchase or abandonment of two (2) or more
unregistered and inoperable motor vehicles, wastepaper, scrap metal, discarded
goods, machinery or other materials.
KENNEL: Any premises where five (5) or more dogs, cats or other small animals
are kept for board, training, propagation or sale.
LAND USE DECISION: A final decision or determination by the city that concerns
the adoption, amendment or application of the goals, a comprehensive plan
provision, a land use regulation or a new land use regulation. A land use
decision does not include a decision which: a) is made under land use standards
not requiring interpretation or the exercise of factual, policy or legal
judgment; b) approves, approves with conditions, or denies a subdivision or
partition, as described in Oregon Revised Statutes 92, located within the urban
growth boundary where the decision is consistent with land use standards; or c)
approves or denies a building permit made under land use standards which do not
require interpretation or the exercise of factual, policy or legal judgment.
LANDSCAPING: Includes ground cover, trees, grass, bushes, flowers, garden areas
and arrangement of fountains, patios, decks, street furniture, and ornamental
concrete or stonework areas.
LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENT: A change to the text of this title, to the comprehensive
plan text, to the plan map, or to the zoning map, that is general in nature or
large in size of area, and therefore, affects a significant number of
properties and owners.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth for the temporary parking of
commercial vehicles while loading or unloading, located on the same lot with a
main building or use, or contiguous to a group of buildings.
LOT: A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area enclosed within the lot lines of a lot.
LOT, CORNER: "Corner lot" means a lot with two (2) adjacent sides abutting
streets other than alleys.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot covered by buildings, normally expressed as a
percentage.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front lot line and the rear lot
line.
LOT LINE: Any property line bounding a lot (see illustration, appendix A, on
file at city hall).
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: Movement of a common boundary without creating a new lot,
or reducing either of the existing lots to less than the lot area required by
the zone.
LOT LINE, FRONT: "Front lot line" means, for an interior lot, a line separating
the lot from the street; for a corner lot, a line abutting either (but not
both) frontages on the street.
LOT LINE, REAR: "Rear lot line" means a lot line opposite to and most distant
from the front lot line; or, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped
lot, a line ten feet (10') long drawn entirely within the lot, parallel to and
at a maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A legally created lot meeting all applicable regulations in
effect at the time of creation, and held in separate ownership from abutting
properties shown on the records of Columbia County at the time the ordinance
was adopted that established zoning for the property.
LOT WIDTH: The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this title found in chapter 9,
article B of this title.
MAJOR PARTITION: A partition which includes the creation of a road or street.
MANUFACTURED DWELLING: A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured dwelling" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK: A residential lot, tract or parcel of land under
the same ownership, with the primary purpose of renting space, or offering
space free in connection with securing trade or patronage, and on which two (2)
or more manufactured dwellings are placed.
MANUFACTURED DWELLING SUBDIVISION: A residential lot, tract or parcel of land
subdivided, according to the provisions of this title regulating land division,
for the purpose of providing sites for manufactured dwellings.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: Transfer usable marijuana, immature marijuana
plants, seed, and medical products, concentrates and extracts to patients and
caregivers registered under Oregon Revised Statutes 475.314 and as defined in
title 3, chapter 2, article A of this Code.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROW SITE: Location for planting, cultivating, growing,
trimming, or harvesting marijuana leaves or flowers registered under Oregon
Revised Statutes 475.304 and as defined in title 3, chapter 2, article A of
this Code.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING SITE: Location for compounding or converting
marijuana into medical products, concentrates or extracts registered under
section 85 of HB 3400 and as defined in title 3, chapter 2, article A of this
Code.
MINOR PARTITION: A partition that does not include the creation of a road or
street.
MOBILE HOME: See definition of manufactured dwelling.
MOBILE HOME PARK: See definition of manufactured dwelling park.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: See definition of manufactured dwelling subdivision.
MODULAR HOME: A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards set
forth in the Building, Plumbing, and Electrical Codes and composed of
components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to
the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a modular home may consist of two (2) sections transported to
the site in a manner similar to a mobile home (except the modular home meets
the Building Code requirements for site built homes), or a series of panels or
room sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together on the
site.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot which was lawful in terms of size, area, dimensions or
location, prior to the adoption of this title, or revision or amendment of this
title, which now fails to conform to the requirements of the zoning district.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of this
title, or amendment to this title, which renders such sign nonconforming
because it does not conform to all the standards and regulations.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure the size, dimensions or location of which
were lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of this title, but
which fails to meet the present requirements of the zoning district.
NONCONFORMING USE: An activity lawfully existing prior to the effective date of
this title, or any amendment to this title, but which fails to meet current
standards and requirements of the zone.
OCCUPANCY PERMIT: A required permit allowing occupancy of a building after it
has been determined that all requirements are met.
ON THE RECORD: An appeal procedure in which the decision is based on the record
established at the initial hearing. New information may be added only under
certain limited circumstances.
OPEN SPACE: An area of land or water essentially unimproved and set aside,
dedicated or reserved for public or private use, or for the use of owners and
occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open space.
PARCEL: A unit of land that is created by a partitioning of land.
PARTITION: Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land
partitioned.
PARTITION LAND: To divide land into two (2) or three (3) parcels of land within
a calendar year, but does not include: a) a division of land resulting from a
lien or foreclosure, foreclosure of a recorded contract for the sale of real
property or the creation of cemetery lots; b) an adjustment of a property line
by the relocation of a common boundary line where an additional unit of land is
not created and where the existing unit of land reduced in size by the
adjustment complies with any applicable zoning ordinance; or c) a sale or grant
by a person to a public agency or public body for State highway, County road,
City street or other right-of-way purpose; provided, that such road or right-
of-way complies with the applicable Comprehensive Plan, Oregon Revised Statutes
215.213(2)(q) and 215.283(2)(p) through (r).
PARTITION PLAT: A final map and other writing containing all the descriptions,
locations, specifications, provisions and information concerning a major or
minor partition.
PERMIT: An official document or certificate, issued by the City, authorizing,
and required prior to, the performance of a specified development activity.
PERMITTED USE: Any use allowed in a zone, subject to the applicable standards.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of the City.
PLAT: A final subdivision plat, replat or partition plat.
POTENTIAL FUTURE FLOODING: Exists when a property elevation is at or below the
established 100-year floodplain.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: The office of an occupation or vocation requiring training
or extended experience in the liberal arts or the sciences or advanced study in
a specialized field, such as attorney, doctor, accountant, and the like,
maintained for the conduct of that occupation or vocation.
QUASI-JUDICIAL AMENDMENT: A change to the text of this title, the Comprehensive
Plan text, the plan map, or the zoning map, that is specific in nature or
involves only a small number of properties.
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PROCESSERS: Processes compound or converts marijuana
into products, concentrates or extracts but does not include packaging or
labeling, with license obtained under section 14 of HB 3400 and as defined in
title 3, chapter 2, article A of this Code.
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PRODUCERS: Manufacture, plant, cultivate, grow, and
harvest marijuana under license obtained under section 12 of HB 3400 and as
defined in title 3, chapter 2, article A of this Code.
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA RETAILER: Sells marijuana items to a consumer with a
license obtained under section 16 of HB 3400 and as defined in title 3, chapter
2, article A of this Code.
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALERS: Purchase marijuana items for resale to a
person other than a customer with license obtained under section 15 of HB 3400
and as defined in title 3, chapter 2, article A of this Code.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REPLAT: A final map of the reconfiguration of lots and easements of a recorded
subdivision or partition plat and other writings containing all the
descriptions, location, specifications, dedications, provisions and information
concerning a recorded subdivision.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land, usually one foot (1') in width, across the end
of a street or alley which shall be under the ownership of the City to restrict
access.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: A facility, licensed by or under the authority of the
State of Oregon, which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with
treatment or training or a combination thereof for six (6) to fifteen (15)
individuals who need not be related. Staff persons required to meet licensing
requirements shall not be counted in the number of facility residents and need
not be related to each other or to any resident of the facility.
RESIDENTIAL HOME: A home, licensed by or under the authority of the State of
Oregon, which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment
or training or a combination thereof for five (5) or fewer individuals who need
not be related. Staff persons required to meet licensing requirements shall not
be counted in the number of facility residents and need not be related to each
other or to any resident of the facility.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication or condemnation, and intended to be occupied by a road, crosswalk,
railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary
storm sewer and other similar uses.
ROAD, COUNTY: "County road" means dedicated public thoroughfare, easement, or
right of way intended for vehicular travel and maintained by, or under the
jurisdiction of the county.
ROAD, FRONTAGE: "Frontage road" means a minor road substantially parallel and
adjacent to an arterial street, providing access to abutting properties and
separation from through traffic.
ROAD, PRIVATE: See definition of Street, Private.
SCHOOL: Any public kindergarten, elementary, junior high, high school, college
or comparable private school.
SHOP, RESIDENTIAL: A "residential shop" means a home workshop located in a
dwelling or an accessory building that is used by a resident of the dwelling
for noncommercial purposes.
SIGN: Any lettered or pictorial device designed to inform or attract attention,
and which shall comply with chapter 12 of this title.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, and/or work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent construction" does not include
land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include
the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
a basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the construction of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STATE BUILDING CODE: The combined specialty codes adopted under Oregon Revised
Statutes 446.062, 446.185, 447.020(2), 455.020(2), 455.496, 455.610, 455.680,
460.085, 460.360, 479.730(1) or 480.545, but does not include regulations
adopted by the state fire marshal pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes chapter
476 or 479.015 to 479.200 and 479.210 to 479.220.
STEEP SLOPE: A slope with a gradient of twenty five percent (25%) or greater
(see definition of Grade).
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly
above a basement, cellar or unused underfloor space is more than six feet (6')
above "grade", as defined herein, such usable or underfloor space shall be
considered as a story.
STORY, HALF: "Half story" means a story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the
wall plates of which are not more than two feet (2') above the floor of such
story on the least two (2) opposite exterior walls.
STREET, ALLEY: "Alley street" means a narrow way providing a secondary means of
access to the back or side of abutting properties that have access on another
street.
STREET, ARTERIAL: "Arterial street" means a major street carrying large amounts
of traffic and so designated on the official city street map.
STREET, COLLECTOR: "Collector street" means a street carrying traffic between
minor and arterial streets.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: "Cul-de-sac street" means a street that terminates in a
vehicular turnaround.
STREET, HALF: "Half street" means the dedication of right of way equal to one-
half (1/2) the planned width of a city street and running the length of the
property frontage. The same term can be applied to the street improvements made
to the centerline of the street.
STREET LIGHTING: The entire system of wiring, poles, fixtures and lamps that
are necessary to light a street or pedestrianway.
STREET, MINOR: "Minor street" means a street created to provide access to
abutting properties.
STREET, PRIVATE: "Private street" means a street created to provide access to
the parcels of a major partition as a nonexclusive easement and not dedicated
for public use.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building (including a gas or liquid storage
tank) that is principally aboveground.
SUBDIVISION: A site with four (4) or more lots.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: Means and includes a final map and other writings containing
all the descriptions, location, specifications, dedications, provisions and
information concerning a subdivision.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either:
      1. Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2. If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT: An improvement determined by the Planning Commission as
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare during construction.
TERRACE: An open, often paved area adjacent to a dwelling at ground level, such
as a patio.
TRAILER, RECREATION: A mobile shelter, usually smaller than nine hundred (900)
square feet, and used for recreational outings rather than as a permanent
habitation.
UNSTABLE SOIL: Soil types which pose severe limitations upon development due to
potential slides, slumping, flooding, structural instability or inadequate
sewage waste disposal, as defined by the Federal law.
UNUSED MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home that has not been occupied for
residential or commercial use.
URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY: An adopted line used as a planning guideline to
designate the future urban area of the City, and indicating areas into which
City services will be extended upon annexation.
USE: The primary purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the standards of this title which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited, when it can be
shown that, due to unusual conditions related to a piece of property, strict
application of the title would result in an unnecessary hardship (see section
9-14-1 of this title).
VIOLATION (For The Purpose Of Complying With Chapter 9, Article B Of This
Title): The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with the City's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATERCOURSE: A stream of water, a channel, and a natural source of water.
WETLANDS: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions.
YARD: Open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground upward, except
as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, EXTERIOR SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear lot line
on the street side of a corner lot.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, with a depth
equal to the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and a line
drawn parallel to it at the nearest point of the building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
main building and the nearest point of the rear lot line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and side lot line, extending from
the front yard to the rear yard, and measured horizontally from the nearest
point of the side lot line to the nearest point of the principal building.
(Ord. 664, 11-3-2010; amd. Ord. 679, 4-6-2016)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Enforcement Official
9-3-2: Administrative Authority
9-3-3: Permits And Approvals
9-3-4: Fees
9-3-5: Permitting Of Similar Uses
9-3-6: Quasi-Judicial Hearings
9-3-7: Public Hearings
9-3-8: Amendments
9-3-9: Appeals
9-3-10: Complaints Regarding Violations
9-3-11: Penalty For Violation Of Title
9-3-12: Quasi-Judicial Amendments To The Comprehensive Plan Or Zoning Map
9-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-2: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
   A.   Planning Commission: The planning commission shall have authority to
approve or deny, in whole or in part, all requests involving conditional uses,
nonconforming uses, signs and land division.
   B.   City Manager:
      1.   The city manager shall have the authority administratively to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny, in whole or in part, all requests
involving the following sections of this title:
9-11-4 regarding parking;
9-13-3 regarding special setbacks for rights of way; and
9-15-2 regarding lot line adjustments.
      2.   Except for the sections listed in subsection B1 of this section, the
planning commission shall be the authority to approve, approve with conditions,
or deny, in whole or in part, all other requests involving conditional uses,
nonconforming uses, signs and land divisions.
   C.   Appeals To Council: Appeals of the planning commission decisions shall
be to the city council.
   D.   Land Use Actions: Land use actions involving annexations, zone changes
and amendments shall be heard by the planning commission and a recommendation
made to the city council.
   E.   Other Planning Commission Functions: The planning commission shall
perform any other functions that may be designated by the city council. (Ord.
652, 6-4-2008)
   F.   Development Review Advisory Committee:
      1.   Advisory Committee Established And Purpose: The city of Clatskanie
development review advisory committee is hereby established, the purpose of
which is to provide input to a prospective land use and development applicant
regarding city code requirements and recommendations before a land use or
development application is complete and formally submitted for review. There
shall be no official action taken at an advisory committee meeting, and the
city shall bear no responsibility to the applicant for any omission or error of
any committee member or recommendation of the committee.
      2.   Membership: The advisory committee shall consist of seven (7)
members appointed by the city council comprising the following officials and
agencies: mayor, councilor, planning commissioner, city manager, public works
director, Clatskanie rural fire protection district, and Clatskanie people's
utility district.
      3.   Mandatory Review For Certain Development Applications: Completion of
an advisory committee meeting is a prerequisite for a new commercial structure,
any industrial development, subdivision, or any multi-family development
involving three (3) or more dwellings. The city will not deem complete any land
use application for which a required development review advisory committee
meeting has not occurred in compliance with this subsection.
      4.   Meeting Schedule: The advisory committee shall meet as often as
needed to process an applicable land use development request or application.
The city shall schedule an advisory committee meeting generally within fourteen
(14) days of receipt of an applicable land use and/or development request.
Requests for land use and development shall be submitted on official city forms
and signed by the owner of the subject property or by the owner's authorized
representative.
      5.   Public Meetings: Meetings of the advisory committee will be open to
the public, but the meetings are not subject to statutory requirements for land
use proceedings.
      6.   Fees: The city council may by resolution establish a fee to process
applicable requests for land use and development actions through the Clatskanie
development review advisory committee. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007; amd. Ord. 652, 6-
4-2008)
9-3-3: PERMITS AND APPROVALS:
   A.   Conditions For Issuance:
      1.   Permits and approvals shall be issued only when a review of the
application indicates the development will comply with the provisions of this
title.
      2.   All development shall occur in accordance with such permits and
approvals.
      3.   The intended use shall not commence nor shall a building be occupied
nor shall lots be sold until all of the requirements have been complied with.
   B.   Time Limit For Authorization: Authorization for a permit shall be void
after two (2) years if no substantial construction has taken place, unless the
planning commission grants an extension for one additional two (2) year period.
   C.   Plans Review: The planning commission and Clatskanie rural fire
protection district shall review and approve all new construction plans for
commercial and industrial development and all plans for multi-family
residential with density greater than two (2) units per lot. (Ord. 652, 6-4-
2008)
9-3-4: FEES:
To defray expenses incurred in connection with the processing of applications,
report preparation, notice publications, and similar matters, the city may
charge fees as established by resolution of the council. The filing of an
application shall not be considered complete, nor shall action be taken to
process it, until the required fee has been paid. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-5: PERMITTING OF SIMILAR USES:
The planning commission may permit a use that is not specifically named in the
allowed uses listed for a zone, provided the use is of the same general type
and similar in nature to those allowed, and is not already allowed in any other
zone. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-6: QUASI-JUDICIAL HEARINGS:
   A.   Decisions: The planning commission shall conduct quasi- judicial
hearings, and decide on the following:
      1.   Applications for temporary permits;
      2.   Conditional use permits;
      3.   Variances from the standards of the applicable zone; and
   B.   Other Duties: The planning commission shall perform any other duties as
provided by this title. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-7: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Acceptance Of Applications: Applications shall be accepted only from
property owners or their authorized agents. Applications may only be made using
forms provided for that purpose by the city, and will not be considered
complete until the required fee has either been paid or waived by decision of
the council.
   B.   Contents Of Application: At a minimum, the application will include:
      1.   A description of the land use action being applied for; and
      2.   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing lot lines, the dimensions and
location of existing and proposed structures, easements, street access, and
structures abutting properties within ten feet (10') of the lot line. (Ord.
652, 6-4-2008)
   C.   Agency Notice Of Application: Notice of the receipt of a complete
application will be sent to interested agencies such as city departments,
police and fire districts, school district, utility companies, and applicable
city, county, and state agencies. Affected jurisdictions and agencies could
include the department of environmental quality, the Oregon department of
transportation, and Columbia County rider. Notice of projects affecting state
transportation facilities will be sent to ODOT. Referrals will be sent to
affected neighborhood associations. (Ord. 659, 11-4-2009)
   D.   Quasi-Judicial Hearings: A hearing that will result in a determination
as to the permissible use of a specific property shall be conducted as a quasi-
judicial hearing. All parties are entitled to an opportunity to be heard, to
present and rebut evidence, and to have a decision based on the evidence and
supported by the findings of fact as part of the record.
      1.   The city manager shall review each application for completeness. If
the application does not meet the applicable requirements, the city manager
shall advise the applicant of the deficiencies prior to placing it on the
planning commission's agenda. The applicant may withdraw the application at any
point up to the time that the public hearing is opened. The planning commission
may refuse to hear an incomplete application, and may return it to the
applicant for additional information.
      2.   The city manager may place the application on the planning
commission's agenda for a public hearing to be held within forty (40) days of
the date the application was found to be complete.
      3.   Copies of the complete application shall be distributed by the city
manager to members of the city staff and to the Clatskanie rural fire
department and to affected agencies for their comments.
      4.   Following the review period, the city manager shall coordinate and
assemble the application data and reports and distribute to the planning
commission, applicant, city staff and to the press, not less than five (5) days
prior to the hearing date.
      5.   The city shall take final action on an application within the time
period required by state law, unless the applicant requests an extension, or
the parties have agreed to mediation. An issue which may be the basis for an
appeal to the land use board of appeals shall be raised not later than the
close of the record at or following the final evidentiary hearing on the
proposal. Such issues shall be raised with sufficient specificity so as to
afford the hearings body and the parties an adequate opportunity to respond to
each issue.
   E.   Legislative Hearings: A hearing on a proposed change that is general in
nature or large in size of area and, therefore, affects a significant number of
properties and owners, shall be conducted as a legislative hearing. The city
council, planning commission, advisory board or record owner of property, may
initiate the application process.
      1.   The procedures described in subsections D1 through D4 of this
section shall apply.
      2.   A minimum of two (2) hearings, one before the planning commission
and one before the city council, is required except where only a hearing by the
city council is required.
      3.   Any applicable statewide planning goals and guidelines adopted under
Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 197, applicable comprehensive plan policies and
provisions of the implementing ordinances shall apply.
      4.   Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. The procedures
described in subsections F3 through O of this section shall apply. (Ord. 652,
6-4-2008; amd. Ord. 659, 11-4-2009)
   F.   Notice Of Public Hearings: Notice shall be provided in the following
manner, depending on the type of action:
      1.   Quasi-Judicial: The quasi-judicial land use hearing notice
requirements shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Oregon
Revised Statutes 197.763 and as follows:
         a.   Notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Based upon unforeseeable and special
issues particular to the subject property, the city council may at the time of
scheduling the public hearing increase the public hearing notification area
beyond the area specified by the code section being considered;
         b.   Notice shall be posted in three (3) conspicuous public places in
the city at least twenty (20) days before the hearing;
         c.   Notice shall be sent by mail at least twenty (20) days before the
hearing to:
            (1)   The applicant or representative;
            (2)   All property owners of record within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of the boundaries of the subject property;
            (3)   Any recognized neighborhood or community organizations whose
boundaries include the site or whose resources may be impacted by the proposal;
            (4)   Any public agency or utility whose property, services or
facilities may be affected, such as Columbia County, the Oregon department of
transportation, and Columbia County rider. The reviewing staff shall determine
the extent of notice to the additional public agencies or utilities based on
perceived interest or impact. (Ord. 659, 11-4-2009)
      2.   Legislative: The legislative land use hearing notice requirements
shall be regulated by subsection E of this section and under Oregon Revised
Statutes.
      3.   Contents Of Notice: The notice provided by the city shall:
         a.   Explain the nature of the application and the proposed use or
uses which could be authorized;
         b.   List the applicable criteria;
         c.   Identify the subject property;
         d.   State the date, time and location of the hearing;
         e.   State that failure of an issue to be raised in a hearing, in
person, or by letter, or failure to provide sufficient specificity to afford
the decision maker an opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to
the land use board of appeals based on that issue;
         f.   Include the name of local government representative to contact
and the telephone number for additional information; and
         g.   State that a copy of the application and all related documents
will be available for inspection (at the counter) at no cost at least seven (7)
days prior to the hearing and that the public may obtain copies, for their own
use, at reasonable cost.
   G.   Owner Of Record: The city shall use, for the purpose of ascertaining
the property owners, the names and addresses of the owner of record, as shown
in the current copy of the Columbia County assessor records.
   H.   Failure To Receive Notice: Failure to send notice to an individual, or
failure of a person to receive notice, shall not invalidate any proceeding.
   I.   Ex Parte Contacts: Members of the hearing body shall not communicate
with representatives of either the proponents or opponents in a land use action
unless opportunity is provided for all parties involved (including the entire
hearing body) to participate. At the commencement of the hearing, members of
the hearing body shall reveal any prehearing contact they may have had with the
applicant, the applicant's representative, or with anyone in opposition to the
proposal.
   J.   Hearing Commencement, Statement: At the commencement of the hearing a
statement shall be made to those in attendance that:
      1.   Lists the applicable substantive criteria;
      2.   States that testimony and evidence must be directed toward the
criteria or toward some other criteria in the plan or land use regulations
which the person believes to apply to the decision; and
      3.   States that failure to raise an issue with sufficient specificity to
afford the decision maker and the parties an opportunity to respond to the
issue precludes appeal to the land use board of appeals on that issue.
   K.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall, depending on
the type of land use application involved, take the following action:
      1.   Quasi-Judicial: The planning commission shall, following a public
hearing, approve or disapprove the request. If the decision is to approve, the
planning commission may add conditions designed to guarantee fulfillment of
public service demands created or increased by the proposed use, and mitigate
any adverse effects upon surrounding property owners or the city.
      2.   Legislative: The planning commission may recommend that the city
council approve, deny or modify the proposed amendment.
      3.   Criteria: The applicant has the burden of proof on all criteria. For
all applications, it shall be established that:
         a.   The proposal conforms with the city comprehensive plan; and
         b.   The proposal complies with all applicable statutory and ordinance
requirements and regulations.
      4.   Continuation: A hearing may be continued, if necessary, to obtain
more information. If the hearing body announces the date, time and place of the
next meeting, no additional notice is required; however, to encourage citizen
involvement, the city may choose to provide additional notice.
      5.   Findings: The planning commission shall make findings, based upon
the record before it, to support its decision.
   L.   Appeal Period: The ten (10) day appeal period shall begin on the date
the order is signed.
   M.   Notice Of Council Hearing: Notice of a city council hearing shall be
given in the same manner as described in subsection F of this section,
depending on the type of land use action being requested.
   N.   Council Action: For those land use actions requiring council approval,
the planning commission's recommendation shall be considered during the
hearing, and may be adopted, modified or rejected.
   O.   Reapplication: Following denial of an application, or of an appeal, the
applicant shall be required to wait a period of twelve (12) months before
filing a similar request. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008; amd. Ord. 659, 11-4-2009)
9-3-8: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Initiation: Amendments to the text of this title, and/or to the city
zoning map, may be initiated by:
      1.   A petition from the affected property owner, or such owner's
authorized agent, filed with the city manager; or
      2.   The planning commission on its own motion; or
      3.   The council on its own motion.
   B.   Referral To Planning Commission: All requests for amendments, however
initiated, shall be referred to the planning commission for a public hearing,
which shall be scheduled within forty (40) days.
   C.   Notice Of Planning Commission Hearing:
      1.   Notice of the planning commission hearing on a proposed amendment
shall be given in the manner as for a legislative action, described in section
9-3-7 of this chapter.
      2.   If an application would change the zone of property which includes
all or part of a mobile home park as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes
446.003, the city council shall give written notice by first class mail to each
existing mailing address for tenants of the mobile home park at least twenty
(20) days but not more than forty (40) days before the date of the first
hearing on the application. The city council may require an application. The
city council may require an applicant for such a zone change to pay the cost of
such notice.
   D.   Failure To Receive Notice: Failure to send notice to an individual, or
failure of a person to receive notice, shall not invalidate any proceeding.
   E.   Ex Parte Contacts: The restrictions described in subsection
9-3-7I of this chapter shall apply.
   F.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission may recommend that
the city council adopt, modify or reject the proposed amendment.
   G.   Notice Of City Council Hearing: Notice shall be given in the manner
required by Oregon Revised Statutes.
   H.   City Council Action: In making their decision regarding the proposed
amendment, the city council may adopt, modify or reject the planning
commission's recommendation.
   I.   Record Of Amendment: The city manager shall maintain a record of all
amendments made to the text of this title and to the city zoning map, in a form
and location convenient to the public. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal; Notice: An applicant, or any aggrieved person, may
appeal an order (decision) of the planning commission by submitting, on a form
provided by the city, written notice to the city manager within ten (10) days
of the date the order is signed by the planning commission chairperson or the
chairperson's designee.
   B.   Filing Fee: A filing fee in the amount set by the city council is due
at the time the appeal is filed. The city council may waive the required fee
upon a showing of good cause.
   C.   Hearing Date: The appeal hearing date shall be set for the next
regularly scheduled council meeting.
   D.   Contents Of Notice: Notice of the hearing shall be provided in the same
manner as for the original hearing in accordance with state law.
   E.   Testimony; Evidence: At the hearing, testimony shall be limited to the
applicant(s) and the appellant(s) and evidence shall be limited to the record
of the planning commission decision. The city council may decide to hear
additional testimony or additional evidence on any specific appeal.
   F.   Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of proof.
   G.   City Council Action:
      1.   The city council may decide to uphold or to overturn the planning
commission decision, or it may remand the application to the planning
commission for another hearing.
      2.   If the city council decides to uphold the planning commission
decision, no new findings are necessary.
      3.   For the purposes of an appeal of a decision involving chapter 9,
article B of this title dealing with floodplain regulations, the city council
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of chapter 9, article B of this title, and the
following criteria:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   Upon consideration of the factors of this subsection G and the
purposes of the floodplain regulations, the city council may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of the floodplain regulations.
      5.   The city manager shall maintain the records of all appeal actions
and report any variances to the federal insurance administration upon request.
(Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-3-10: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title is alleged to have occurred, a signed
written complaint may be filed by any individual. Such complaint shall state
fully the situation on which it is based and the section of this title that has
been violated. The city manager shall then record the complaint, investigate
(with police assistance, if necessary) and take action as provided by this
title. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-11: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF TITLE:
Unless otherwise provided in this title, any violation of any code provision of
this title shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00). Each day's violation of any code provision of this title constitutes
a separate offense. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-3-12: QUASI-JUDICIAL AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR ZONING MAP:
Quasi-judicial amendments to the comprehensive plan or zoning map (generally
small in size, single ownership or single interest in changing the zoning map)
may be initiated by the city council, the planning commission, or by
application of an owner of property or the owner's authorized agent within the
area for which the amendment is proposed. The applicant shall demonstrate that
the comprehensive plan map or zoning map change request meets the following
criteria:
   A.   The proposal conforms with the applicable provisions of the city's
comprehensive plan;
   B.   The proposal complies with all applicable statutory and ordinance
requirements and regulations;
   C.   There is a public need for the proposal and that this need will be
served by changing the zoning of the property(ies) in question as compared with
other available property;
   D.   The public interest is best carried out by approving the proposal at
this time;
   E.   Proposal which significantly affects a transportation facility shall
assure that allowed land uses are consistent with the function, capacity, and
level of service of the facility identified in the transportation system plan.
This shall be accomplished by one of the following: revising the proposal to be
consistent with the planned function of the transportation facility, or
amending the transportation system plan to ensure that existing, improved or
new transportation facilities are adequate to support the proposed land uses
consistent with the requirement of the transportation planning rule. A plan or
land regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation facility if
it:
      1.   Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility;
      2.   Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
      3.   Allows types or levels of land use that would result in levels of
travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
transportation facility; or
      4.   Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
acceptable level identified in the transportation system plan.
Quasi-judicial amendments to the comprehensive plan map or zoning map shall be
considered at a public hearing before the planning commission. Notice and
appeal procedures set forth in this chapter shall apply. Quasi-judicial
amendments shall be approved by the city council by ordinance following a
public hearing. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
ARTICLE A. CLAIMS PROCEDURE
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Purpose
9-3A-2: Definitions
9-3A-3: Claim Filing Procedures
9-3A-4: City Manager Investigation And Recommendation
9-3A-5: City Council Public Hearing
9-3A-6: City Council Action On Claim
9-3A-7: Processing Fee Deposit
9-3A-8: Conditions Of Approval, Revocation Of Decision And Property Rights
Transfer
9-3A-9: Applicable State Law, No Independent Rights Created By This Article
9-3A-1: PURPOSE:
This article is intended to establish procedures for the implementation of
ballot measure 37, passed by voters of the state of Oregon on November 2, 2004,
which amended chapter 197 of Oregon Revised Statutes. These procedures
establish a prompt, open, thorough, and consistent process that enables a
property owner an adequate and fair opportunity to present a claim to the city.
These procedures preserve and protect limited public funds and establish a
record of the city's decision suitable for circuit court review. (Ord. 637, 12-
1-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and phrases mean:
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Clatskanie, or his or her
designee.
CLAIM: A claim filed under ballot measure 37.
EXEMPT LAND USE REGULATION: A land use regulation that:
   A.   Restricts or prohibits activities commonly and historically recognized
as public nuisances under common law. This subsection shall be construed
narrowly in favor of a finding of compensation under this article;
   B.   Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public health
and safety, which may include, but not be limited to, such regulations as fire
and building codes, health and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste
regulations, pollution control regulations, and transportation infrastructure
requirements;
   C.   Is required in order to comply with federal law;
   D.   Restricts or prohibits the use of property for the purpose of selling
pornography or performing nude dancing; or
   E.   Was enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by the
owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior to
acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred first.
FAMILY MEMBER: Includes the wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father,
brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent,
stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, the estate
of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or
combination of these family members or the owner of the property.
LAND USE REGULATION: Includes:
   A.   Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest therein;
   B.   Administrative rules and goals of the land conservation and development
commission;
   C.   Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, land division
ordinances, and transportation ordinances;
   D.   Metropolitan service district regional framework plans, functional
plans, planning goals and objectives; and
   E.   Statutes and administrative rules regulating farming and forest
practices.
OWNER: The present owner(s) of real property, or any interest therein, which is
the subject of a claim. The owner is a person who is the sole fee simple
absolute owner of the real property or all joint owners whose interests add up
to a fee simple absolute interest in property, including all persons who
represent all recorded interests in the property, such as co-owners, holders of
less than fee simple interests, leaseholders, and security interest holders.
VALID CLAIM: A claim that meets all of the following conditions:
   A.   A claim that is submitted by the owner(s) of real property that is
subject to a land use regulation adopted or enforced by the city that restricts
the use of the private real property in a manner that reduces fair market value
of the real property;
   B.   If an owner wishes to assert that more than one regulation restricts
use of the property, and has the effect of reducing the fair market value of
the property, all claims regarding that property must be filed simultaneously
and considered by the city simultaneously; and
   C.   A claim based on regulations that contain discretionary criteria for
approval of development on a property may only be filed after the city has
enforced its regulations through approval or denial of a land use application.
Such approval or denial is necessary to establish whether a particular land use
regulation "restricts the use" of the subject property. (Ord. 637, 12-1-2004,
eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-3: CLAIM FILING PROCEDURES:
   A.   A person seeking to file a claim under this article must be the present
owner of the property that is the subject of the claim at the time the claim is
submitted. The claim shall be filed with the city manager's office, or another
office so designated by the city manager.
   B.   A claim shall include:
      1.   The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of all owners, and
anyone with any interest in the property, including lien holders, trustees,
renters, lessees, and a description of the ownership interest of each;
      2.   The address, tax lot, and legal description of the real property
that is the subject of the claim, together with a title report issued no more
than thirty (30) days prior to the submission of the claim, that reflects the
ownership interest in the property, or other documentation reflecting sole
ownership of the property by the claimant, and the date the property was
acquired;
      3.   If the claim is based upon the date a family member acquired the
property, then documentation sufficient to establish the familial relationship
along with a chain of title showing continual ownership;
      4.   The current land use regulation(s) that allegedly restricts the use
of the real property and allegedly causes a reduction in the fair market value
of the subject property;
      5.   A statement as to the preferred resolution of the claim, such as
compensation, waiver, or modification of an applicable regulation;
      6.   The amount of any compensation requested, based on the alleged
reduction in value of the real property supported by an appraisal by an
appraiser licensed by the appraiser certification and licensure board of the
state of Oregon;
      7.   Copies of any leases or covenants, conditions, and restrictions
("CCRs") applicable to real property, if any, that impose restrictions on the
use of the subject property; and
      8.   A processing fee deposit of five hundred dollars ($500.00) that may
or may not be refunded depending on the resolution of the claim by the city
council.
   C.   Commencement of the one hundred eighty (180) day period allowed for
local government claim procedures prior to any cause of action being authorized
for the owner in circuit court as specified in Oregon Revised Statutes chapter
197 starts on the date the city manager deems the claim complete and accepts it
for filing.
   D.   Notwithstanding a claimant's failure to provide all of the information
required by this section, the city may review and act on a claim. (Ord. 637,
12-1-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-4: CITY MANAGER INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Following an investigation of a claim, the city manager shall forward a
recommendation to the city council that the claim be:
      1.   Denied;
      2.   Investigated further;
      3.   Declared valid, and waive or modify the land use regulation, or
compensate the claimant; or
      4.   Evaluated with the expectation of the city acquiring the property by
condemnation. (Ord. 637, 12-1-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-5: CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING:
The city council shall conduct a public hearing before taking final action on a
recommendation from the city manager. Notice of the public hearing shall be
provided to the claimant, to owners and occupants of property within three
hundred feet (300') of the perimeter of the subject property, and neighborhood
groups or community organizations officially recognized by the city council
whose boundaries include the subject property. (Ord. 637, 12-1-2004, eff. 12-2-
2004)
9-3A-6: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON CLAIM:
   A.   Upon conclusion of the public hearing and prior to the expiration of
one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the claim was filed, the city
council shall:
      1.   Determine that the claim does not meet the requirements of measure
37 and this article, and deny the claim; or
      2.   Adopt a resolution with findings therein that supports a
determination that the claim is valid and either directs that the claimant be
compensated in an amount set forth in the resolution for the reduction in value
of the property, or directs the removal, modification, or waiver of the
challenged land use regulation with respect to the subject property.
   B.   The city council's decision to waive or modify a land use regulation or
to compensate the owner shall be based on whether the public interest would be
better served by compensating the owner or by removing or modifying the
challenged land use regulation with respect to the subject property. (Ord. 637,
12-1-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-7: PROCESSING FEE DEPOSIT:
A five hundred dollar ($500.00) processing fee deposit shall accompany a claim
submittal. This deposit shall be refunded only when the city council adopts a
resolution that supports a determination that the claim is valid and either
directs that compensation be made, or directs the removal, modification, or
waiver of the challenged land use regulation with respect to the subject
property. If the claim is denied by the city council, then this deposit shall
be kept by the city as a processing fee and will not be returned to the
claimant. (Ord. 637, 12-1-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-8: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL, REVOCATION OF DECISION AND PROPERTY RIGHTS
TRANSFER:
   A.   The city council may establish any relevant conditions of approval for
compensation, should compensation be granted, or for any other action taken
under this article.
   B.   Failure to comply with any condition of approval is grounds for
revocation of the approval of the compensation for any claim, grounds for
recovering any compensation paid, and grounds for revocation of any other
action taken under this article.
   C.   In the event the owner, or the owner's successor in interest, fails to
fully comply with all conditions of approval, the city may institute a
revocation or modification proceeding before the city council.
   D.   Unless otherwise stated in the city's decision, any action taken under
this article runs with the subject property and is transferred with ownership
of the property. All conditions, time limits or other restrictions imposed with
approval of a valid claim will bind all subsequent owners of the subject
property. (Ord. 637, 12-1-2004, eff. 12-2-2004)
9-3A-9: APPLICABLE STATE LAW, NO INDEPENDENT RIGHTS CREATED BY THIS ARTICLE:
For all claims filed with the city, the applicable state law is those portions
of Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 197 added or made a part of said chapter by
ballot measure 37, passed on November 2, 2004, and/or as amended, modified or
clarified by subsequent amendments or regulations adopted by the Oregon state
legislature or Oregon administrative agencies. No rights independent of said
provisions are created by adoption of this article. (Ord. 637, 12-1-2004, eff.
12-2-2004)
CHAPTER 4
ZONES ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP
SECTION:
9-4-1: Zones Designated
9-4-2: Zoning Map
9-4-3: Boundary Determination Standards
9-4-4: Zoning Of Annexed Areas
9-4-1: ZONES DESIGNATED:
To carry out the purpose and the provisions of this title, the following zones
are hereby established:
Zone Type Short
          Title
Zone Type          Short
                   Title
Residential        R-10  Single-Family Residential with a minimum lot size of
                         10,000 square feet
                  R-7   Single-Family Residential with a minimum lot size of
                         7,000 square feet
                  R-5   Two-Family Residential with a minimum lot size of
                         5,000 square feet
                  MFR   Multi-Family Residential
Commercial         NC    Neighborhood Commercial
                  C-1   General Commercial Use
Industrial         M-2   Light Industrial
                  M-1   Heavy Industrial
Community          CS    Community Service
                  OS    Open Space
Special or overlay H     Historic Overlay
                  FH    Flood Hazard
                  WRC   Wetland and Riparian Corridor Overlay
                  C-1-D Downtown Design Overlay
                  C-1-H Highway Design Overlay
                  MU-R  Mixed Use Residential Overlay
                  ED    Employment District
 
(1996 Code § 17.16.010; amd. Ord. 575, 8-7-1996; Ord. 601, 5-3-2000; Ord. 651,
12-12-2007; Ord. 672, 10-29-2014; Ord. 686, 7-12-2017)
9-4-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adoption: The boundaries of the zones established in this title are to
be indicated on a map entitled the "Zoning Map of the City of Clatskanie",
referred to in this title as the "City zoning map", which is hereby adopted by
reference. The map shall be dated with the effective date of adoption and be
signed by both the Mayor and City Recorder. (1996 Code § 17.64.010)
   B.   Amendments: Amendments to the City zoning map may be made in accordance
with the provisions of section
9-3-8 of this title. Copies of all map amendments shall be maintained together
with the zoning document, on file in the Office of the City Manager. (1996 Code
§ 17.64.020; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Maintenance: The City Recorder shall maintain an up to date copy of the
City zoning map. Any map amendments shall be accurately portrayed, listed in
the amendment column on the face of the map, with the date, the number of the
ordinance authorizing the change and initials of the City Recorder. (1996 Code
§ 17.64.030)
9-4-3: BOUNDARY DETERMINATION STANDARDS:
When there is uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to the intended
location of any zone boundary, the exact location shall be determined by the
City Manager in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Street Lines: Where the boundaries are indicated as following
approximately the street, alley, or railroad centerlines, such lines shall be
construed to be the zone boundaries.
   B.   Street Vacations: Whenever a street is lawfully vacated, the area
vacated shall revert (in equal proportions) to the adjoining properties and
shall acquire the zone classification of the property to which it reverts.
   C.   Lot Lines: Where the boundaries are indicated as following
approximately the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the zone
boundaries. If a zone boundary divides a lot into two (2) zones, the entire lot
shall be placed in the zone that accounts for the greater area of the lot, by
means of an adjustment of the boundary.
   D.   Watercourses: The boundary lines are intended to follow the centerlines
of watercourses. (1996 Code § 17.64.040)
9-4-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS:
For provisions on the zoning of annexed areas, see section
9-14-3 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.64.050)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. R-10 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Permitted Uses
9-5A-2: Conditional Uses
9-5A-3: Standards
9-5A-4: Parking Requirements
9-5A-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-5A-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Designated: In an R-10 zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted:
Accessory building.
Residential facility.
Residential home.
Single-family dwelling.
Unused manufactured single-family home. (1996 Code § 17.20.010; amd. 2004 Code;
Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   B.   Similar Uses; Home Occupations: Any other use determined by the
planning commission to be similar in nature to the uses listed in subsection A
of this section shall be allowed; including home occupations, provided the
requirements of section
9-13-4 of this title are met. (2004 Code)
9-5A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an R-10 zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Bed and breakfast inn.
Church or other religious structure.
Communication tower.
Daycare facility licensed by the state of Oregon.
Manufactured single-family dwelling other than an unused manufactured home.
School. (1996 Code § 17.20.020; amd. Ord. 605, 4-4-2001; 2004 Code; Ord. 643,
3-1-2006)
9-5A-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the R-10 zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.20.030)
9-5A-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the R-10 zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.20.040)
9-5A-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the R-10 zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.20.050)
ARTICLE B. R-7 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Permitted Uses
9-5B-2: Conditional Uses
9-5B-3: Standards
9-5B-4: Parking Requirements
9-5B-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-5B-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Designated: In an R-7 zone the following uses, and their accessory
uses, are permitted:
Accessory building.
Residential facility.
Residential home.
Single-family dwelling.
Unused manufactured single-family home. (1996 Code § 17.24.010; amd. 2004 Code;
Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   B.   Similar Uses; Home Occupations: Any other use determined by the
planning commission to be similar in nature to the uses listed in subsection A
of this section shall be allowed; including home occupations, provided the
requirements of section
9-13-4 of this title are met. (2004 Code)
9-5B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an R-7 zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Bed and breakfast inn.
Church or other religious structure.
Communication tower.
Daycare facility licensed by the state of Oregon.
Manufactured single-family dwelling other than an unused manufactured single-
family home.
School.
Two-family dwelling. (1996 Code § 17.24.020; amd. Ord. 605, 4-4-2001; 2004
Code; Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-5B-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the R-7 zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.24.030)
9-5B-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the R-7 zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.24.040)
9-5B-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the R-7 zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.24.050)
ARTICLE C. R-5 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-5C-1: Permitted Uses
9-5C-2: Conditional Uses
9-5C-3: Standards
9-5C-4: Parking Requirements
9-5C-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-5C-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Designated: In an R-5 zone, the following uses, and their
accessory uses, are permitted:
Accessory building.
Bed and breakfast inn.
Residential facility.
Residential home.
Single-family dwelling.
Two-family dwelling.
Unused manufactured home. (1996 Code § 17.28.010; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 643, 3-
1-2006)
   B.   Similar Uses; Home Occupations: Any other use determined by the
planning commission to be similar in nature to the uses listed in subsection A
of this section shall be allowed; including home occupations, provided the
requirements of section
9-13-4 of this title are met. (2004 Code)
9-5C-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an R-5 zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Church or other religious structure.
Communication tower.
Daycare facility licensed by the state of Oregon.
Manufactured dwelling other than an unused manufactured home.
School.
Three-family dwelling. (1996 Code § 17.28.020; amd. Ord. 605, 4-4-2001; 2004
Code; Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-5C-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the R-5 zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.28.030)
9-5C-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the R-5 zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.28.040)
9-5C-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the R-5 zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.28.050)
ARTICLE D. MFR MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-5D-1: Permitted Uses
9-5D-2: Conditional Uses
9-5D-3: Standards
9-5D-4: Parking Requirements
9-5D-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-5D-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Designated: In an MFR zone, the following uses, and their
accessory uses, are permitted:
Accessory buildings.
Apartments.
Bed and breakfast inn.
Manufactured dwelling.
Public transit facilities.
Residential facility.
Residential home.
Single-family dwelling.
Three-family dwelling.
Two-family dwelling. (1996 Code § 17.32.010; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 658, 11-4-
2009)
   B.   Similar Uses; Home Occupations: Any other use determined by the
planning commission to be similar in nature to the uses listed in subsection A
of this section shall be allowed; including home occupations, provided the
requirements of section
9-13-4 of this title are met. (2004 Code)
9-5D-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an MFR zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Churches or other religious structures.
Communication towers.
Daycare facilities licensed by the state of Oregon.
Manufactured dwelling parks.
Mortuaries and funeral homes.
Professional offices.
Schools. (1996 Code § 17.32.020; amd. Ord. 605, 4-4-2001; 2004 Code)
9-5D-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the MFR zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.32.030)
9-5D-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the MFR zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.32.040)
9-5D-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the MFR zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.32.050)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. NC NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Permitted Uses
9-6A-2: Conditional Uses
9-6A-3: Standards
9-6A-4: Parking Requirements
9-6A-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-6A-1: PERMITTED USES:
In an NC zone, the following uses, and their accessory uses, are permitted:
   A.   Uses Within Enclosed Building: Any of the following uses, if conducted
entirely within an enclosed building:
Accessory buildings located on the same lot.
Bakery, provided all goods produced are sold on the premises.
Barbershop or beauty parlor.
Book or stationery store.
Candy store.
Drugstore.
Film exchange.
Grocery, fruit, vegetable, or meat market, or delicatessen.
Photographer.
Self-service laundry.
Shoe store or shoe repair shop.
Tailor shop.
   B.   Similar Uses: Any other use determined by the planning commission to be
similar to those listed in subsection
9-6B-1A of this title. (1996 Code § 17.36.010)
9-6A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an NC zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Any residential use permitted in the MFR zone.
Communication tower.
Daycare facilities licensed by the state of Oregon.
Dwelling(s) in a commercial structure.
Professional offices, clinics, or studios. (1996 Code § 17.36.020; amd. Ord.
605, 4-4-2001; 2004 Code)
9-6A-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the NC zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.36.030)
9-6A-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the NC zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.36.040)
9-6A-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the NC zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.36.050)
ARTICLE B. C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL USE ZONE
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Permitted Uses
9-6B-2: Conditional Uses
9-6B-3: Standards
9-6B-4: Parking Requirements
9-6B-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-6B-1: PERMITTED USES:
In a C-1 zone, the following uses and their accessory uses are permitted:
   A.   Dwellings: Dwellings in conjunction with a business or attached to a
commercial use. (1996 Code § 17.40.010)
   B.   Within Enclosed Building: Any of the following uses, if conducted
entirely within an enclosed building:
Animal hospital and boarding kennel, with no outside activities.
Antique shop.
Assisted living facilities.
Automobile repair.
Bank or office.
Blueprinting or photostating shop.
Business college or private school.
Catering.
Cleaning.
Frozen food locker.
Furniture sales or interior decorating studio.
Hotel/motel.
Jewelry store.
Lumber sales.
Newsstand.
Nursery.
Pawnshop or secondhand store.
Pet shop or taxidermist.
Restaurant, cafe or tavern.
Retail store.
Sign painting.
Theater.
Tire store.
Upholstery, cabinet or carpenter or plumbing shop. (1996 Code § 17.40.010; amd.
Ord. 599, 11-3-1999; 2004 Code; Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   C.   Outdoor Uses: Outdoor uses for the following:
Automobile filling station.
Food service.
Outdoor goods.
Sale of one used personal vehicle owned by the property owner, lessee, or
employee. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   D.   RV Park: Recreation vehicle park. (Ord. 580, 10-2-1996; amd. Ord. 643,
3-1-2006)
   E.   Public Transit Facilities: Public transit facilities. (Ord. 658, 11-4-
2009)
9-6B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In a C-1 Zone, the following uses may be permitted, with conditions, by the
Planning Commission in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Adult businesses.
Automobile sales.
   Automobile tire sales with outdoor storage.
Communication tower.
Lumberyard with outdoor storage.
Medical marijuana business as defined for dispensary, grow site, and processing
site.
Recreational marijuana business as defined for processors, producers,
retailers, and wholesalers.
Any other use determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in nature to
the above uses, with any conditions deemed necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006; amd. Ord. 679, 4-6-2016)
9-6B-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the C-1 Zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.40.020)
9-6B-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the C-1 Zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.40.030)
9-6B-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the C-1 Zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.40.040)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. M-2 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Permitted Uses
9-7A-2: Conditional Uses
9-7A-3: Standards
9-7A-4: Parking Requirements
9-7A-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-7A-1: PERMITTED USES:
In an M-2 zone, the following uses and their accessory uses are permitted:
   A.   Uses Designated: Any of the following uses, if conducted entirely
within an enclosed building:
Distribution plant or parcel delivery with off street loading bay.
Electroplating shop.
Laundry, using only nonexplosive and nonflammable cleaning fluid.
Machine shop not using drop hammer or punch processes.
Manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of articles or merchandise
from previously prepared materials, with the exception of paint that employs a
boiling process, and a planing mill.
Manufacturing, compounding, processing and packaging of products (with the
exception of sauerkraut, vinegar or pickles), tools, equipment and mobile or
modular homes.
Manufacture of pottery and other similar ceramic products, using only
previously pulverized clay.
Professional, executive and administrative offices.
Research, experimental or testing laboratories involving nonhazardous
materials.
Spinning or knitting.
Trade or commercial school, provided no odor, vibration or similar disturbances
are detectable at an objectionable level beyond the property line of the site.
Warehousing, wholesale storage and distribution, and motor freight terminals.
(1996 Code § 17.44.010)
   B.   Similar Uses: Any other use determined by the planning commission to be
similar in nature to the above uses; provided, that such uses do not cause
noise, odor, vibration or similar disturbances that are detectable at an
objectionable level beyond the property line of the site, and with any
conditions deemed necessary by the planning commission to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. (1996 Code § 17.44.010; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-7A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an M-2 zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
   A.   Commercial Zone Uses: Any use permitted in a commercial zone. (1996
Code § 17.44.020)
   B.   Uses Designated: Any of the following uses:
Adult business.
Auto wrecking.
Building or repair of small boats.
Communication tower.
Planing mill. (1996 Code § 17.44.020; amd. Ord. 605, 4-4-2001; Ord. 621, 11-6-
2002)
   C.   Similar Uses: Any other use determined by the planning commission to be
similar in nature to the above uses. (1996 Code § 17.44.020; amd. Ord. 643, 3-
1-2006)
9-7A-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the M-2 zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.44.030)
9-7A-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the M-2 zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.44.040)
9-7A-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the M-2 zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.44.050)
ARTICLE B. M-1 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Permitted Uses
9-7B-2: Conditional Uses
9-7B-3: Standards
9-7B-4: Parking Requirements
9-7B-5: Landscaping Requirements
9-7B-1: PERMITTED USES:
In an M-1 zone, the following uses and their accessory uses are permitted:
   A.   Light Manufacturing Zone: Any use permitted on the M-2 light
manufacturing zone. (1996 Code § 17.48.010)
   B.   Uses Designated: Any of the following uses:
Abrasive material manufacturing.
Accessory buildings located on the same lot.
Automobile or truck assembly, painting, upholstering, repair, body and fender
work; tire retreading or recapping and battery manufacture.
Automobile wrecking.
Bottle or can manufacturing plant.
Cleaning compound manufacture, provided no highly combustible or explosive
materials are used and no off site odor produced.
Dry cleaning or dyeing using explosive materials.
Enameling and metal coating; sheet and ornamental metal works.
Fish smoking, curing and canning.
Mattress factory.
Pickle, sauerkraut or vinegar production.
Planing or saw mill.
Plastic or rubber manufacturing.
Poultry or rabbit slaughter.
Storage of all types, including grain elevator.
Tool and hardware manufacture.
Welding and/or machine shop with drop hammer or punch press.
Wool pulling or weaving of fibrous material on power looms.
Yeast plant. (1996 Code § 17.48.010; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Similar Uses: Any other use determined by the commission to be similar
in nature to the above uses.
   D.   Additional Conditions: The planning commission may attach conditions
relating to setbacks, screening, off street parking and loading, construction
standards and maintenance, and landscaping, which they deem necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the adjacent property owners
and the public interest. (1996 Code § 17.48.010)
9-7B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an M-1 zone, the following uses may be permitted, with conditions, by the
planning commission in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Adult businesses.
Communication tower. (Ord. 605, 4-4-2001; amd. Ord. 621, 11-6-2002)
9-7B-3: STANDARDS:
For standards in the M-1 zone, see section
9-10-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.48.020)
9-7B-4: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
For parking requirements in the M-1 zone, see chapter 11 of this title. (1996
Code § 17.48.030)
9-7B-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
For landscaping requirements in the M-1 zone, see section
9-10-6 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.48.040)
CHAPTER 8
COMMUNITY ZONES
ARTICLE A. CS COMMUNITY SERVICE ZONE
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Purpose
9-8A-2: Permitted Uses
9-8A-3: Conditional Uses
9-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The CS zone may be used either for the purpose of implementing the public lands
comprehensive plan designation, or as an overlay district for minor
institutions established in any other zone. (1996 Code § 17.52.010)
9-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
In a CS zone, the following uses and their accessory uses are permitted:
   A.   Major Institutions: "Major institutions", defined as the following:
Government office buildings.
Hospital, clinic or extended care facility.
Public or private cemetery, crematory or mausoleum.
Schools, public and private, and associated facilities. (1996 Code § 17.52.020)
   B.   Minor Institutions: "Minor institutions", defined as the following:
Church.
Daycare facilities licensed by the state of Oregon.
Dwelling for a watchman or caretaker for a permitted use.
Library.
Parks, playground, sports arena, golf course.
Police and fire station, or armory.
Private club, fraternal organization lodge, grange hall.
Utility facilities, including electric power substation, telephone switching
station, sewage pumping station, sewage treatment plant, water treatment plant,
water storage reservoir, public works shop, telephone microwave facility and
radio or television transmission facilities. (1996 Code § 17.52.020; amd. 2004
Code)
   C.   Similar Uses: Any other use determined by the planning commission to be
similar in nature to the uses listed in subsections A and B of this section.
(1996 Code § 17.52.020)
9-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In a CS zone, the following uses may be permitted, with conditions, by the
planning commission in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Communication tower. (Ord. 605, 4-4-2001)
ARTICLE B. OS OPEN SPACE ZONE
SECTION:
9-8B-1: Purpose
9-8B-2: Permitted Uses
9-8B-3: Conditional Uses
9-8B-4: Urban Farming
9-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The OS Zone is for the preservation and protection of recreational and other
open spaces. (Ord. 686, 7-12-2017)
9-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Designated: In an OS Zone, the following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted:
Boat launching facilities and docks.
Golf courses.
Marinas.
Open space preservation areas.
Parks.
Paths and trails.
Playgrounds.
Public rest areas.
   B.   Similar Uses: Any other use determined by the Planning Commission to be
similar in nature to the above uses. (Ord. 686, 7-12-2017)
9-8B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an OS Zone, the following uses may be permitted, with conditions, by the
Planning Commission in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Communication tower. (Ord. 686, 7-12-2017)
9-8B-4: URBAN FARMING:
   A.   Property use in the OS Zone for urban farming for commercial or non-
profit purposes or sustenance is permitted by approval of the Planning
Commission in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing.
   B.   Produce that can be grown on this property includes fruits and
vegetables. Livestock may also be raised on the property. Medical and
recreational marijuana cultivation is not permitted.
   C.   Keeping of livestock and commonly domesticated animals, on these farms,
including pastureland is allowed with the following requirements:
      1.   Sanitation: Proper sanitation shall be maintained for all animals at
all times to prevent any condition which may be dangerous or detrimental to the
health of the public or animals, or constitute a nuisance. This includes noise
and order nuisances.
      2.   Fencing: Fencing is required, unless otherwise contained by a
natural barrier, and shall be designed and constructed to confine all animals
to the site on which the animal is kept.
      3.   Enclosures: An enclosure is required and shall be designed and
constructed to provide shelter from the weather for all animals kept outdoors
on the development site.
   D.   Lot area minimum: 2.5 acres.
   E.   Minimum setbacks for structures:
      1.   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Side and rear yard: Ten feet (10').
   F.   Minimum parcel dimensions for animal husbandry, livestock, shall be
determined by Best Management Practices available through the Oregon State
University Extension Office.
   G.   Property in the OS Zone used for urban farming used for commercial or
non-profit purposes shall meet the State requirements listed in Oregon Revised
Statutes 568.900 et seq., to the extent applicable, and provide the City with a
copy of the approved permits from the State Department of Agriculture for water
quality and the use of herbicides, pesticides and fungicides. (Ord. 686, 7-12-
2017)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL OR OVERLAY ZONES
ARTICLE A. H HISTORIC OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-9A-1: Purpose
9-9A-2: Change Of Use Or External Modification
9-9A-3: Conditions
9-9A-4: Demolition Of Historic Structure
9-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The H historic overlay zone has been designed for the preservation of
historically significant sites within the city. The H overlay zone may be used
with any land use designation in the comprehensive plan. (1996 Code §
17.56.010)
9-9A-2: CHANGE OF USE OR EXTERNAL MODIFICATION:
A change of use or an external modification of a historic structure may be
permitted by the planning commission after a public hearing at which the
applicant demonstrates that the change will not alter the structure or site in
such a way as to destroy the historic value of either. Input may be requested
from the state historic preservation officer prior to the planning commission's
decision. (1996 Code § 17.56.020; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-9A-3: CONDITIONS:
The planning commission may attach conditions to any allowed change of use or
external modification relating to setbacks, screening, off street parking and
loading, construction standards and maintenance, and landscaping, which may be
deemed necessary to protect the historic character of the structure or site, as
well as the public health, safety and welfare of the adjoining property owners
and the public interest. (1996 Code § 17.56.030)
9-9A-4: DEMOLITION OF HISTORIC STRUCTURE:
   A.   Demolition Permit; Waiting Period: There shall be a ninety (90) day
waiting period before any requested demolition permit can be issued. During
this time, the city staff shall, with the assistance of any interested civic
group, investigate possible methods to purchase and preserve the site or
structure.
   B.   Preservation Plan:
      1.   If a preservation plan is developed, the demolition permit shall not
be issued until a good faith effort has been made by all parties involved to
implement such a plan. However, if not successful within one year, the
preservation plan shall be void and a demolition permit issued.
      2.   If no preservation plan is developed within the ninety (90) day
waiting period, the demolition permit shall be issued. (1996 Code § 17.56.040)
ARTICLE B. FH FLOOD HAZARD ZONE
SECTION:
9-9B-1: Purpose
9-9B-2: Jurisdiction; Development Permit
9-9B-3: Duties And Responsibilities Of Commission
9-9B-4: Information Obtained And Maintained
9-9B-5: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
9-9B-6: Use Of Other Base Flood Data In A Zones
9-9B-7: Alteration Of Watercourses
9-9B-8: Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries
9-9B-9: Flood Hazard Protection
9-9B-10: Floodways
9-9B-11: Standards For Shallow Flooding Areas
9-9B-12: Critical Facilities
9-9B-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by methods and provisions designed for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-2: JURISDICTION; DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
This article shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city. A development permit shall be obtained before
construction or development begins within any area of special flood hazard
established in this article. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured dwellings, as set forth in section
9-2-2, "Definitions", of this title, and for all development including fill and
other activities, also as set forth in section
9-2-2, "Definitions", of this title. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMISSION:
   A.   Grant Or Deny Permit: The planning commission shall grant or deny
development permit applications in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
   B.   Duties: The duties of the planning commission shall include the review
of all development permits to determine the following:
      1.   The permit requirements of this article have been met.
      2.   All necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state
or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   The encroachment provisions of this article have been met, if the
proposed development is located in the floodway. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-4: INFORMATION OBTAINED AND MAINTAINED:
Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood insurance study,
FIRM or required, the planning commission shall obtain and record the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement or below grade crawl space) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement. For all new
or substantially improved floodproofed structures, the planning commission
shall:
   A.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level);
and
   B.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required.
   C.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions
of this article. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-5: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Columbia County, Oregon And Incorporated Areas", dated
November 26, 2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The flood
insurance study is on file at city hall. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with this section, the planning commission shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway
data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer
this article. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-6: USE OF OTHER BASE FLOOD DATA IN A ZONES:
When base flood elevation data has not been provided (A zone) in accordance
with section
9-9B-5, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
article, the local administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer section
9-9B-9, "Flood Hazard Protection", of this article. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-7: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES:
Notification shall be provided to adjacent communities, the department of land
conservation and development, the U.S. army corps of engineers, the Oregon
department of state lands, and other appropriate agencies prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification submitted to the federal insurance administration. The planning
commission shall require that maintenance be provided within the altered or
relocation portion of the watercourse, so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-8: INTERPRETATION OF FIRM BOUNDARIES:
The planning commission shall make interpretations where needed, as to exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example,
where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation. Such appeals shall be
granted consistent with the standards of section 60.6 of the rules and
regulations of the national flood insurance program (44 CFR 59-76). (Ord. 664,
11-3-2010)
9-9B-9: FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the component during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with the
administrative rules of the Oregon department of environmental quality.
   D.   Subdivision Applications: Applications shall be consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage; shall have public utilities and facilities such
as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage; and shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood damage; and, where base flood elevation data has not been
provided or is not available from another authoritative source, it shall be
generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which
contain at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available from
the flood insurance study, FIRM, or some other authoritative source,
applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to elevate at
least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in higher insurance
rates.
   F.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. Fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding are
prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other covering or
devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   G.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum of
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
      4.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection F of this section.
      5.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base flood
level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
   H.   Manufactured Dwellings: For manufactured dwellings to be placed or
substantially improved on sites:
      1.   The ground area reserved for the placement of a manufactured
dwelling shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") above BFE unless the
foundation walls are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must be either certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters;
      2.   The bottom of the longitude chassis frame beam in A zones, and the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member supporting the dwelling in V
zones shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") above BFE;
      3.   The manufactured dwelling shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement during the base flood. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground
anchors (reference FEMA's "Manufactured Dwelling Installation In Flood Hazard
Areas" guidebook for additional techniques); and
      4.   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of twelve inches
(12") above BFE.
   I.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the requirements of subsection H of this section and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured dwellings.
   J.   Building Setbacks: Within the flood hazard zone, a twenty five foot
(25') building setback from the ordinary high water line of all rivers and
streams shall be maintained. Within this building setback, riparian vegetation
shall be maintained to the maximum extent feasible. The intent of this
provision is the stabilization of the river and stream banks by maintaining the
existing vegetation. Requests for a variance to this standard must be
accompanied with a plan to mitigate the adverse impacts of construction on this
sensitive vegetation. This plan may include the replanting of the area with
vegetation such as willows or other riparian vegetation to restore the area
after construction is finished.
   K.   Before Regulatory Floodway: In areas where a regulatory floodway has
not been designated, no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 664, 11-3-
2010)
9-9B-10: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as floodways.
Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
   A.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development are prohibited, unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this article. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-11: STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS:
Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMs as AO zones with depth designations. The
base flood depths in these zones range from one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding is
usually characterized as sheet flow. In these areas, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Residential Structures: New construction and substantial improvements
of residential structures within AO zones shall have the highest adjacent grade
of the building site, to or above the depth number specified on the FIRM (at
least 2 feet if no depth number is specified).
   B.   Nonresidential Structures: New construction and substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures within AO zones shall either:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the depth number
specified on the FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as in subsection
9-9B-9G3 of this article.
   C.   Drainage Paths: Adequate drainage paths shall be required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
9-9B-12: CRITICAL FACILITIES:
Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) (100-year
floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible
within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available. Critical
facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated
three feet (3') above BFE or to the height of the 500-year flood, whichever is
higher. Access to and from the critical facility should also be protected to
the height utilized above. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 664, 11-3-2010)
ARTICLE C. WRC WETLAND AND RIPARIAN CORRIDOR OVERLAY ZONE 1
SECTION:
9-9C-1: Purpose
9-9C-2: Definitions
9-9C-3: Development Permit; Agency Approval
9-9C-4: Applicability Of Provisions
9-9C-5: Buffers And Widths Established
9-9C-6: Permitted Uses
9-9C-7: Conditional Uses
9-9C-8: Uses And Activities Prohibited
9-9C-9: Decision Options
9-9C-10: General Development Standards
9-9C-11: Transportation Facilities And Structures Development Standards
9-9C-12: Utility Development Standards
9-9C-13: Vegetation Management Standards
9-9C-14: Bank Stabilization For Erosion Control Standards
9-9C-15: Enhancement And Mitigation Standards
9-9C-16: Variances
9-9C-17: Plan Amendment Option
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-13-6 of this title.
9-9C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   General: The wetland and riparian corridor overlay zone implements the
Clatskanie comprehensive plan and is intended to resolve conflicts between
development and conservation of significant wetlands, streams, and riparian
corridors identified in the "City Of Clatskanie's (City) Local Wetland
Inventory And Riparian Assessment (LWI)". Specifically, it is the intent of
this article to allow reasonable economic use of property while establishing
clear and objective standards to: maintain and enhance water quality; maximize
flood storage capacity; preserve native plant cover; minimize stream bank
erosion; maintain and enhance fish and wildlife habitats; and conserve scenic,
recreational, and educational values of water resource areas.
   B.   Safe Harbor: It is the intent of the WRC overlay zone to meet the
requirements of statewide planning goal 5 (natural resources) and the safe
harbor provisions of the goal 5 administrative rule (Oregon Administrative
Rules 660, division 23). These provisions generally require that significant
wetlands and riparian corridors be mapped and protected. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
FILL: The total of deposits of sand, sediment, or other organic material by
artificial means at one location in any wetland or water area.
RIPARIAN AREA: The area adjacent to a river, lake, or stream, consisting of the
area of transition from an aquatic ecosystem to a terrestrial ecosystem.
RIPARIAN CORRIDOR: The goal 5 resource that includes the water areas, fish
habitat, adjacent riparian areas, and wetlands within the riparian corridor
boundary.
STREAM: A channel, such as a river or creek that carries flowing surface water,
including perennial streams and intermittent streams with defined channels, and
excluding human made irrigation and drainage channels.
TOP OF BANK: A clearly recognizable sharp break in the stream bank. It has the
same meaning as "bankfull stage" as defined in Oregon Administrative Rules 141-
85-010(2). It is the stage or elevation at which water overflows the natural
banks of streams and begins to inundate the upland. In the absence of physical
evidence, the two (2) year recurrence interval flood elevation may be used to
approximate the bankfull stage.
WATER AREA: The area between the banks of a lake, pond, river, perennial or
fish bearing intermittent stream, excluding human- made farm or logging ponds.
WATER DEPENDENT USE: A use or activity that can be carried out only on, in, or
adjacent to water areas because the use requires access to the water body for
water borne transportation, recreation, energy production, or source of water.
WATER RELATED USE: A use that is not directly dependent upon access to a water
body, but that provides goods or services that are directly associated with
water dependent land or waterway use, and that, if not located adjacent to
water, would result in a public loss of quality in the goods or services
offered. Except as necessary for water dependent or water related uses or
facilities, residences, parking lots, spoils and dump sites, streets,
restaurants, businesses, and factories are not generally considered dependent
upon or related to water location needs. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-3: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; AGENCY APPROVAL:
   A.   Permits And Applications: A development permit shall be obtained before
construction or development begins in an area or on a parcel within the WRC
overlay zone. The permit shall be required for all structures and all
development, including fill and other activities, except that no permit shall
be required for permitted vegetation management. An application for a use
identified in this article shall not be deemed complete until the application
has addressed all appropriate and applicable development standards in writing.
For construction or development in significant riparian corridors, the permit
application shall include an erosion control plan that identifies the specific
measures to be implemented during and after construction to protect the
riparian area and adjacent upland areas from erosion, siltation, and the
effects of deleterious construction materials.
   B.   Agency Approval: Any development proposal for a parcel within the WRC
overlay zone, in addition to meeting the standards of this article, may also
need to be approved by the U.S. army corps of engineers (COE) and/or the Oregon
division of state lands (DSL), and any other federal, state, or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required. (Ord. 601, 5-3-
2000)
9-9C-4: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Resources Covered: The regulations of this article shall apply to the
following significant wetlands and riparian corridors identified in the LWI,
including: wetlands - CR02, CR03, CR04, CR05, CR06, CR08, CR09, CR10, CR11,
CR12, CR13, CR14, and CR18; and riparian corridors - CRO1 Clatskanie River,
CR05 Conyers Creek, CR15 Fall Creek and CR16 Beaver Dredge Cut. The maps
depicting the WRC overlay zone boundaries shall be maintained and updated as
necessary by the city. When a wetland or stream not inventoried in the LWI is
identified, it shall become subject to the requirements of this article only
after an inventory and analysis meeting the appropriate requirements of goal 5
has been completed and an ordinance has been adopted adding the wetland or
stream to the list of significant wetlands and riparian corridors subject to
the protection regulations of this article.
   B.   Authority: If a conflict occurs between the WRC overlay zone and the
underlying zone, the more restrictive provisions and standards of the WRC shall
apply. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-5: BUFFERS AND WIDTHS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Significant Wetlands. The WRC overlay zone includes significant
wetlands identified in section
9-9C-4 of this article, and an associated wetland buffer of twenty five feet
(25') measured from, and including, the upland edge of each significant
wetland. Site specific delineations may be necessary to determine the exact
location of the boundary of the significant wetland. Site specific delineation
shall be performed by qualified individuals using a method acceptable to the
COE and DSL. Where wetland delineation is prepared, the mapping it contains
shall replace that of the LWI.
   B.   Significant Riparian Corridors: The WRC overlay zone includes the
significant riparian corridors identified in section
9-9C-4 of this article. A significant riparian corridor shall consist of the
water area and banks of the riparian area, and a fifty foot (50') wide setback
on both sides measured upland from the top of each bank. Where a significant
riparian corridor includes all or portions of a significant wetland, the width
is measured from, and includes, the upland edge of the wetland. (Ord. 601, 5-3-
2000; amd. 2004 Code)
9-9C-6: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Significant Wetlands: The following uses and activities shall be
permitted outright in significant wetlands within the WRC overlay zone, in
conformance with the standards of this article, and if permitted outright in
the base zone:
Vegetation management, limited to perimeter mowing of existing cultivated lawns
and pruning or removal of vegetation necessary for hazard prevention.
   B.   Significant Wetland Buffers And Riparian Corridors: The following uses
and activities shall be permitted outright in significant wetland buffers and
riparian corridors within the WRC overlay zone, subject to the issuance of a
development permit and in conformance with the standards of this article, and
if permitted outright in the base zone:
      1.   Transportation facilities and structures not exceeding sixteen feet
(16') in width and requiring less than fifty (50) cubic yards of fill,
including: roads and driveways, bridges, bridge crossing support structures,
culverts, and pedestrian and bike paths.
      2.   Low impact, passive, water dependent recreational, educational, or
scientific facilities including, but not limited to: viewing shelters, floating
docks, water accesses, picnic tables, nature trails, and interpretive signs, or
similar types of uses. Platforms, docks, trails, and other construction shall
be no greater than ten feet (10') in width.
      3.   Installation, repair, replacement, or maintenance of underground or
aboveground utilities where the affected area is no greater than ten feet (10')
in width.
      4.   Vegetation management, limited to perimeter mowing of existing
cultivated lawns and pruning or removal of vegetation necessary for hazard
prevention. A permit shall not be required for these vegetation management
activities.
      5.   Replacement of existing structures or development with structures or
development in the same location that does not disturb additional buffer or
riparian areas.
      6.   Irrigation pumps (riparian corridors only). (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-7: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Significant Wetlands: The following uses and activities may be
permitted in significant wetlands within the WRC overlay zone, subject to the
issuance of a development permit and in conformance with the standards of this
article, and if permitted outright or conditionally in the base zone:
      1.   Transportation facilities and structures, including: roads and
driveways, bridges, bridge crossing support structures, culverts, and
pedestrian and bike paths.
      2.   Installation, repair, replacement, or maintenance of underground or
aboveground utilities.
      3.   Vegetation management other than perimeter mowing of existing
cultivated lawns and pruning or removal of vegetation necessary for hazard
prevention.
      4.   Wetland enhancement, including, but not limited to, removal of non-
native vegetation and replacement with native plant species, and compensatory
mitigation.
   B.   Significant Wetland Buffer And Riparian Corridors: The following uses
and activities may be permitted in wetland buffers and riparian corridors
within the WRC overlay zone, subject to the issuance of a development permit
and in conformance with the standards of this article, and if permitted
outright or conditionally in the base zone:
      1.   Transportation facilities and structures exceeding sixteen feet
(16') in width and requiring more than fifty (50) cubic yards of fill,
including: roads and driveways, bridges, bridge crossing support structures,
culverts, and pedestrian and bike paths.
      2.   Installation, repair, replacement, or maintenance of underground or
aboveground utilities where the affected area is greater than ten feet (10') in
width.
      3.   Vegetation management other than perimeter mowing of existing
cultivated lawns and pruning or removal of vegetation necessary for hazard
prevention.
      4.   Excavation or fill greater than fifty (50) cubic yards in
conjunction with permitted development.
      5.   Wetland buffer or riparian area enhancement, including, but not
limited to, removal of non-native vegetation and replacement with native plant
species, and compensatory mitigation.
      6.   Commercial water dependent and water related uses, including
facilities greater than ten feet (10') in width.
      7.   Bank protection and stabilization, and flood control.
      8.   Point source storm water discharge and alternative storm water
management practices.
      9.   Permanent alteration of a wetland buffer or riparian area by
placement of structures or impervious surfaces not otherwise permitted. Such
alteration shall be accompanied by enhancement or restoration, or other similar
measure, of an equal or larger size area of the wetland buffer or riparian area
being altered. The enhancement or restoration shall be located adjacent to the
portion of the resource area being altered, and may occur on an adjacent
parcel. In no case shall such alterations occupy more than fifty percent (50%)
of the width of the wetland buffer or the riparian corridor, measured from the
upland edge of the wetland buffer or corridor. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-8: USES AND ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED:
The following uses and activities shall be prohibited in significant wetlands
and buffers and significant riparian corridors within the WRC overlay zone,
unless specifically authorized in this article as or in conjunction with a
permitted or conditional use:
   A.   Excavation solely for the purpose of removal of gravel, aggregate,
sand, minerals, or other inorganic or organic materials.
   B.   Removal of native plant species without replacement or mitigation.
   C.   Placement of new structures or impervious surfaces.
   D.   Grading and placement of fill.
   E.   Application or use of herbicides, soil amendments, or fertilizers.
   F.   Dumping of garbage, lawn or yard debris, or other unauthorized
materials.
   G.   Creation of a parcel that would be wholly within the WRC overlay zone
or result in an unbuildable parcel, as determined by the city manager. (Ord.
601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-9: DECISION OPTIONS:
The approval authority shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny an
application in accordance with the criteria and standards of this article. The
approval authority may require conditions necessary to comply with the intent
and provisions of this article. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-10: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The following standards shall apply to all uses and activities
within the WRC overlay zone. The uses and activities shall also be subject to
the standards of the base zone. If a conflict occurs between the standards of
the WRC overlay zone and the underlying zone, the more restrictive standards of
the WRC shall apply. Development may also be subject to specific standards in
subsequent sections of this article.
   B.   Review Of Uses: Standards for review of all uses within the WRC overlay
include the following:
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of any protected water resources, excavation
and vegetation removal shall be prohibited on slopes of twenty five percent
(25%) or greater in slide hazard areas, except where necessary to construct
public facilities or to ensure slope stability.
      2.   For significant riparian corridors, construction and maintenance
shall be conducted during times approved by the Oregon department of fish and
wildlife ODFW for fish bearing waterways.
      3.   Fill, when permitted, shall be subjected to the following standards:
         a.   All fill material shall be clean and free of contaminates.
         b.   Fills shall be designed in a manner that does not worsen flooding
on adjacent or nearby flood prone lands, and avoids restricting the flow of
water to or through protected resources.
         c.   Fill side slopes shall be revegetated with native plant species
to stabilize the slopes.
   C.   Review Of Conditional Uses: Standards for review of all conditional
uses within the WRC overlay zone include the following:
      1.   Uses and activities in significant wetlands and buffers and
significant riparian corridors may be approved only after the applicant
demonstrates that the following alternative actions have been addressed:
         a.   Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or
parts of an action (this would include, for example, having the use or activity
occur entirely on uplands).
         b.   Fill side slopes shall be revegetated with native plant species
to stabilize the slopes.
      2.   Where a use or activity can be located in either the protected
resource (significant wetland/riparian corridor) or its associated buffer,
preference shall be given to the location of the use or activity in the buffer.
(Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-11: TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The following standards shall apply to transportation
facilities and structures within the WRC overlay, including roads and
driveways, bridges, bridge crossing support structures, culverts, and
pedestrian and bike paths.
   B.   Review Of Conditional Uses: Standards for review of conditional uses
include the following:
      1.   Protected resources shall be crossed only where there are no
practicable alternatives.
      2.   Transportation facilities and structures crossing protected
resources and associated buffers shall be no wider than necessary to serve
their intended purposes.
      3.   For significant wetlands and buffers, new roads, driveways and
pedestrian and bike paths may be placed on piling or on fill in a manner that
allows the free flow of water beneath the structure. Pile supported
construction is preferred over fill. Water circulation shall be facilitated
through the use of culverts or bridges. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-12: UTILITY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The following standards shall apply to permitted crossing,
trenching, or boring for the purpose of developing a utility corridor for
electric power lines, telephone lines, cable television lines, water lines,
wastewater collection lines, and natural gas lines within or crossing parcels
in the WRC overlay zone.
   B.   Review Of Utility Uses: Standards for review of all utility uses
include the following:
      1.   Utility maintenance roads in or crossing protected resources shall
meet applicable standards for transportation facilities and structures in
protected resources.
      2.   For underground utilities, the following additional standards shall
apply:
         a.   Common trenches, to the extent allowed by the building code,
shall be required in order to minimize disturbance of the protected resource.
         b.   Boring under the waterway, directional drilling, or aerial
crossing are preferable to trenching. If trenching is the only alternative, it
shall be conducted in a dry or dewatered area with stream flow diverted around
the construction area to prevent turbidity.
         c.   Materials removed or excavated during trenching, boring, or
drilling shall be deposited away from the protected resource, and either
returned to the trench as backfill, or if other material is to be used as
backfill in the trench, excessive materials shall be immediately removed from
the protected resource and its associated buffer. Side casting of removed
material into a protected resource shall not be permitted.
         d.   The ground elevation of a protected resource shall not be altered
as a result of utility trench construction or maintenance. Finish elevation
shall be the same as starting elevation.
         e.   Topsoil and sod shall be conserved during trench construction or
maintenance, and replaced on top of the trench.
   C.   Review Of Conditional Uses: Standards for review of conditional uses
include the following:
Utility corridor routes shall be selected to minimize vegetation removal. (Ord.
601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-13: VEGETATION MANAGEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The standards set out in subsection B of this section shall
apply to vegetation in significant wetlands and buffers and significant
riparian corridors.
   B.   Review Of Conditional Uses: Standards for review of conditional uses
include the following:
      1.   Vegetation removal, pruning, or mowing in a significant wetland or
riparian corridor shall be the minimum necessary and in no case shall
substantially impair any wetland functions and values associated with the
stream. Vegetation removal, pruning, or mowing in the wetland buffer shall be
the minimum necessary. Removal, pruning, or mowing of vegetation shall be
permitted if the applicant demonstrates one of the following:
         a.   The action is necessary for the placement of a structure or other
allowed use for which a building permit has been issued;
         b.   The action is necessary for maintenance of an existing structure
or transportation facility;
         c.   The action is necessary for correction or prevention of a
hazardous situation;
         d.   The action is necessary for completion of a land survey;
         e.   The action involves the maintenance of an existing landscape
area;
         f.   The action is part of an approved restoration, enhancement,
mitigation, or erosion control plan, including, but not limited to, invasive or
noxious species removal and replacement with native species, and wetland or
riparian area restoration, mitigation, or enhancement;
         g.   The action is part of a landscape plan approved by the city, and
any other appropriate agencies, in conjunction with a building permit that
minimizes adverse impacts on protected resources; or
         h.   In the case of a significant riparian corridor only, the action
is necessary for the maintenance of a stream's water carrying capacity.
      2.   Planting of new vegetation within a significant wetland and buffer
or riparian corridor shall be permitted in accordance with the following
standards:
         a.   The planning is part of a landscape plan using appropriate native
plant species, and the plan is approved by the city in conjunction with
approval of a building permit; or
         b.   The planting is part of a landscape plan using appropriate native
plant species, and the plan is approved by the city in conjunction with
approval of a building permit; or
         c.   The planting is to replace dead or damaged plants that were
either part of a maintained landscape or part of the existing native plant
community. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-14: BANK STABILIZATION FOR EROSION CONTROL STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The standards set out in subsection B of this section shall
apply to structural bank stabilization in a protected riparian corridor.
   B.   Review Of Conditional Uses: Standards for review of conditional uses
include the following:
      1.   Projects for bank stabilization shall meet the following priorities,
in order:
         a.   Maintain existing riparian vegetation;
         b.   Where existing vegetation must be removed, plant native riparian
vegetation; and
         c.   Where structural stabilization, such as riprap, is proposed,
evidence shall be provided by the applicant that a higher priority method of
erosion control will not work.
      2.   Placement of structural bank stabilization material shall be
permitted only if the following is demonstrated:
         a.   There is critical need to protect an existing structure from an
erosion hazard;
         b.   Impacts on adjacent downstream property are minimized;
         c.   Visual impacts are minimized; and
         d.   Existing riparian vegetation is preserved as much as possible.
(Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-15: ENHANCEMENT AND MITIGATION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: Projects involving removal or fill in a significant wetland or
significant riparian corridor may require issuance of a removal or fill permit
by the DSL or COE, as appropriate. The DSL or COE often require compensatory
mitigation as part of their issuance of a fill permit. The following standards
shall apply to all wetland and riparian area enhancement and mitigation in
significant wetlands or significant riparian corridors.
   B.   Review Of Conditional Uses: Standards for review of conditional uses
include the following:
      1.   An enhancement or mitigation plan shall be submitted before an
enhancement or mitigation project can proceed. The project must follow the
approved plan, which shall include the following in addition to any
requirements of the DSL or the COE, if applicable:
         a.   A written description of the proposal, including a graphic
planting plan and numbers and species of plants;
         b.   Identification of a goal or goals for the project; and
         c.   A description of the evaluation techniques to be used to measure
progress toward the project goal.
      2.   All components of the enhancement or mitigation plan must comply
with applicable standards of this article.
      3.   Any excavation related to enhancement or mitigation shall be subject
to the following standards:
         a.   No more material than necessary and specified in the plan shall
be excavated; and
         b.   Side casting for disposal of excavated material is not permitted.
However, excavated material may be placed in a significant wetland or buffer
area for enhancement purposes, as specified in the enhancement or mitigation
plan. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-9C-16: VARIANCES:
   A.   General: Variances to the use provisions of this article are not
permitted. Variances from measurable (dimensional) provisions of this article
shall be discouraged and may be considered only as a last resort. The planning
commission shall hear and decide variances from dimensional provisions of this
article in accordance with section
9-14-1 of this title.
   B.   Hardship Variances: In addition to the general variance criteria
described in section
9-14-1 of this title, the planning commission may grant a variance to any
dimensional provision of this article only when the applicant has shown that
all of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The variance is necessary to allow reasonable economic use of the
subject parcel of land, which is owned by the applicant, and which was not
created after the effective date of this article.
      2.   Strict application of the provisions of this article would otherwise
result in the loss of a buildable site for a use that is permitted outright in
the underlying zoning district, and for which the applicant has submitted a
formal application.
      3.   The applicant has exhausted all options available under this article
to relieve the hardship.
      4.   The variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief, considering
the potential for increased flood and erosion hazard, and potential adverse
impacts on native vegetation, fish and wildlife habitat, and water quality.
      5.   No significant adverse impacts on water quality, erosion, or slope
stability will result from approval of this hardship variance, or these impacts
have been mitigated to the greatest extent possible.
      6.   Loss of vegetation cover shall be minimized. Any lost vegetation
cover shall be replaced on the site, on a one to one basis, by native
vegetation.
   C.   Mapping Error Variances: In addition to the general variance criteria
described in section
9-14-1 of this title, the planning commission may grant a variance to any
dimensional provision of this article when the applicant has shown that the
following conditions exists:
A mapping error has occurred and has been verified by the DSL. (Ord. 601, 5-3-
2000)
9-9C-17: PLAN AMENDMENT OPTION:
Any owner of property affected by the WRC overlay zone may apply for a quasi-
judicial comprehensive plan amendment. This amendment must be based on a
specific development proposal. The effect of the amendment would be to remove
the WRC overlay zone from the property. The applicant shall use either of the
following methods to demonstrate that such an amendment is justified:
   A.   ESEE Analysis: The applicant may prepare an "Environmental, Social,
Economic, And Energy (ESEE)" consequences analysis in accordance with Oregon
administrative rules 660-23-040.
      1.   The analysis shall consider the ESEE consequences of allowing the
proposed conflicting use, considering impacts on the specific resource site in
comparison with other comparable sites within the Clatskanie planning area
      2.   The ESEE analysis must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city
council that the adverse economic consequences of not allowing the conflicting
use are sufficient to justify the loss, or partial loss, of the resource.
      3.   In particular, the ESEE analysis must demonstrate why the use cannot
be located on buildable land consistent with the provisions of this article,
and that there are no other sites within the Clatskanie planning area that can
meet the specific needs of the proposed use.
      4.   The ESEE analysis shall be prepared by a team of professionals, such
as a wildlife biologist or wetlands ecologist and a land use planner or land
use attorney, all of whom are qualified in their respective fields and
experienced in the preparation of goal 5 ESEE analysis.
      5.   If the application is approved, the ESEE analysis shall be
incorporated by reference into the Clatskanie comprehensive plan, and the "City
Of Clatskanie Wetland And Riparian Inventory Section Maps" shall be amended to
remove the site from the inventory.
   B.   Determination Of "Insignificance": In this case, the applicant must
demonstrate that the protected resource site(s) no longer meet(s) the
applicable significance threshold defined by the goal 5 administrative rule
relative to other comparable resources within the Clatskanie planning area.
      1.   Significance thresholds are described and applied in the LWI and
adopted by reference as part of this article.
      2.   In considering this claim, the city council shall determine that the
decline in identified resource values did not result from a violation of this
article or any other provision of the Clatskanie development code. (Ord. 601,
5-3-2000)
ARTICLE D. C-1-D DOWNTOWN DESIGN OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-9D-1: Purpose And Intent
9-9D-2: Applicability Of Provisions
9-9D-3: Permitted Uses
9-9D-4: Prohibited Uses
9-9D-5: Design Standards And Guidelines
9-9D-5-1: Build To Line
9-9D-5-2: Streetscape
9-9D-5-3: Parking
9-9D-5-4: Primary Entrances
9-9D-5-5: Building Design
9-9D-5-6: Riverfront Development
9-9D-5-7: Landscaping And Screening
9-9D-5-8: Signs
9-9D-5-9: Civic Spaces
9-9D-5-10: Exterior Lighting
9-9D-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The downtown design overlay (C-1-D) zone supports mixed use,
pedestrian oriented development in the downtown, consistent with Clatskanie's
historic character and riverfront setting.
   B.   Intent: The C-1-D standards are intended to implement the vision for
the downtown consistent with the following values and objectives:
      1.   Retain Clatskanie's compact, walkable downtown as its main working,
shopping, and entertainment district.
      2.   Design historically appropriate buildings with a close, intimate
human scale; building standards are intended to respect the architectural
language of the 1900s through 1930s period of Clatskanie's development, while
allowing for new interpretations of historic styles.
      3.   Use contextually appropriate materials, textures and colors.
      4.   Provide for designs that address four (4) sides of every building.
      5.   Orient any off street parking away from Nehalem Street and Highway
30 in shared parking areas.
      6.   Encourage riverfront development and public access to the Clatskanie
River.
      7.   Encourage vibrant civic spaces (e.g., plazas, public art, cafe
seating areas, river access, etc.) that create intrigue, while adding value to
downtown properties.
      8.   Break down large building masses and maintain a storefront
character.
      9.   Balance rhythm and continuity; encourage creativity in the design of
building elevations, rooflines, and facade elements.
      10.   Treat corner lots as focal points (e.g., public art, seating,
etc.).
      11.   Provide weather protection with awnings and canopies over the
sidewalk. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application To C-1 Zone: The C-1-D overlay supplements the standards
contained in the base C-1 zone by refining the permissible uses, densities, and
design standards for properties that are located in the downtown core and in
the vicinity of Nehalem Street between south 2nd Street and north 5th Street,
as designated on the city of Clatskanie zoning map.
   B.   Guidelines Versus Standards: The city of Clatskanie distinguishes
between standards and guidelines. The word "shall" or "must" typically
indicates a standard, required element or specification. Guidelines are
supplementary to standards. Guidelines are not mandatory, but not ignorable
either. The words "should", "preferred" and "recommend" typically indicate
guidelines, which may allow different options for meeting a particular standard
or required element. Standards may also specify things that are "prohibited" or
"not permitted". Any standard contained in this chapter may be modified or
adjusted by the planning commission through site plan review (section
9-3-7 of this title) upon the commission finding that the applicant's proposed
design equally or better meets the intent of the standard to be modified, and
such change is consistent with the purpose in section
9-9D-1 of this article.
   C.   Use Of Graphics: The graphics contained in this article are to be
interpreted as examples of elements, styles, and design treatments fulfilling
the C-1-D standards. Unless a graphic provides a specific dimensional standard
or uses the word "shall", it is intended to be used as a guideline, consistent
with subsection B of this section.
   D.   Existing Versus New Uses Or Development: Existing uses and developments
are not required to conform to the C-1-D standards until new development or
redevelopment is proposed, as follows:
      1.   Conformance to the design standards and guidelines in sections
9-9D-5-1 through
9-9D-5-10 of this article is required for projects involving an exterior
building remodel or physical change to any sign, in which case an application
for site plan review is required under section
9-3-7 of this title.
      2.   The design guidelines and standards in sections
9-9D-5-1 through
9-9D-5-10 of this article are applied through site plan review as follows:
         a.   New building: All of the overlay zone standards apply.
         b.   Building addition or redevelopment that increases the floor area
of building(s) by fifty percent (50%) or more, or development equaling fifty
percent (50%) or more of the value of existing improvements on the site
according to the Columbia County assessor's office (whichever is less): All of
the overlay zone standards apply.
         c.   Building addition, redevelopment, or exterior remodel requiring a
building permit, but not meeting the thresholds under subsection D2a or D2b of
this section: Standards apply to that portion of the building(s) and/or site
that is subject to exterior modification(s).
         d.   Project not requiring a building permit but changing an exterior
element (building, sign, parking, landscaping, circulation, etc.) with regard
to color, materials, and/or finishes: Sections
9-9D-5-1 through
9-9D-5-10 of this article apply to that portion of the building or site that is
subject to exterior modification(s).
   E.   Adjustments And Modifications To The Standards: The standards contained
in this document may be adjusted or modified by the planning commission without
the need for a variance upon finding that the purpose the standard can be
better met through the applicant's proposed (alternative) design solution.
Where the language suggests more than one way to meet a particular standard,
the applicant is encouraged to be creative and propose the most appropriate
design solution given the site's context and the purpose of the code. Where the
applicant proposes an alternate design that is not clearly supported by the
standards, the review body will refer to the above purpose and the guidelines
of the applicable sections below. These "guidelines" will serve as the approval
criteria for such requests. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The land uses that are permitted outright or
conditionally in the C-1 zone are also permitted outright or conditionally, as
applicable, in the C-1-D zone, except those uses listed in section
9-9D-4 of this article, are not allowed.
   B.   Exceptions: Residential uses are allowed provided they are located
above a permitted ground floor commercial space.
   C.   Drive-Up/Drive-Through Facilities: Drive-up/drive-through facilities
that were lawfully established prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified
herein may continue as long as there is no change in use; when there is a
change in use requiring site plan review, the drive-up/drive-through facility
shall either be removed or made to be more compatible with the pedestrian
environment, for example, through enhanced sidewalks or walkways with
contrasting pavers or bollards at crosswalks.
   D.   Conditional Uses: Except as modified by this article, land uses that
are allowed with a conditional use permit in C-1 are allowed with a conditional
use permit in C-1-D. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-4: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Automobile service, lumber sales, sign painting, storage, and similar
commercial and commercial industrial type uses are not permitted.
   B.   Drive-up/drive-through facilities are not permitted, except those
lawfully established prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified herein may
continue in accordance with subsection
9-9D-3C of this article. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5: DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES:
9-9D-5-1: BUILD TO LINE:
New development and redevelopment projects should reinforce the historic town
grid and support an attractive, comfortable, and economically successful
downtown. By maintaining the integrity of the town's historic urban form, land
is used efficiently, traffic is distributed evenly, and new development
contributes to a cohesive, pedestrian friendly downtown. The following
standards apply:
   A.   Setbacks: There are no required setbacks in the C-1-D overlay, except
as otherwise required under applicable building codes.
   B.   Buildings Placed At Sidewalk Edge: Buildings shall be placed at the
sidewalk line, except that increased setbacks are permitted for recessed
building entrances, civic spaces (e.g., plazas) and extra wide sidewalks (e.g.,
outdoor cafes). (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-2: STREETSCAPE:
   A.   New Curb Openings At North Nehalem Street Not Permitted: In order to
maintain storefront character and pedestrian orientation in downtown, new curb
openings or driveway openings onto Nehalem Street north of Highway 30 are not
permitted.
   B.   Sidewalk Improvements: Where a sidewalk is less than six feet (6')
wide, is discontinuous, is in disrepair, or is substandard in its construction,
the city may require sidewalk improvements as a condition of development
approval.
   C.   Corner Lot Development: Where a corner lot is subject to development or
redevelopment under subsection 9-9D-2D2a or D2b of this article, the sidewalk
shall be extended to create a paved plaza (bulb out) not less than twelve feet
(12') deep, except where city standards require a larger vehicle turning
radius. Plaza design and materials shall be subject to site plan review.
Top: Typical street section for Nehalem Street (bulb outs at street
intersections and at midblock pedestrian crossings; Lower right: Typical plaza
with landscaping, light standard (e.g., with hanging baskets and/or banner
brackets) required at street corners.
(Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-3: PARKING:
   A.   Off Street Parking Exemption: Uses in the C-1-D zone north of Highway
30 are not required to provide off street parking due to the area's proximity
to public parking at city park and available on street parking.
   B.   Parking Lot Location: Parking shall not be placed between any
building's primary entrance and a public street. Parking shall be located
behind or beside buildings and not be accessed directly from north of South
Nehalem Street or Highway 30, unless no other access alternative exists.
   C.   Parking Buffers Adjacent To Streets: Where parking is located adjacent
to any street other than an alley, it shall be set back at least six feet (6')
from sidewalk edge or right of way edge, whichever is closer, and buffered with
a landscape strip. The buffer may be reduced to four feet (4') where a stone or
brick masonry wall, or wrought iron fence, is provided between the buffer and
parking area, the design of which shall be consistent with the building design
standards in section
9-9D-5-5 of this article. Landscaping required under these provisions shall
conform to section
9-9D-5-7 of this article. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-4: PRIMARY ENTRANCES:
   A.   Primary Entrance: Every building shall have at least one primary
entrance opening directly onto a public sidewalk, civic space, or other walkway
approved through site plan review.
   B.   Weather Protection: In order to maintain storefront character and
pedestrian orientation downtown, all buildings shall provide sidewalk and
pedestrian protection (e.g., canopies or awnings) across at least thirty
percent (30%) of their street frontage. Such canopies or awnings shall have a
minimum depth of four feet (4'). Property owners are responsible for
maintaining in good condition all awnings and weather protecting features
(i.e., appearance and function). See also section
9-9D-5-5 of this article. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-5: BUILDING DESIGN:
   A.   Design Four Sides: All four (4) sides of every building shall be
designed to create an overall composition conforming to the guidelines and
standards of this section.
   B.   Clatskanie's Historic Character: New buildings may not mimic other
existing buildings in their design, but should instead provide a new
interpretation of Clatskanie's historic character, consistent with the
architectural styles prevalent from the 1900s to the 1930s. Consistent with
this standard, all building stories shall conform to the following criteria:
      1.   All buildings shall contain a base, middle, and top, as follows:
         a.   The base shall be defined, for example, by a kick plate,
wainscoting, or similar detail extending at least twenty four inches (24")
above grade (sidewalk); storefront windows shall not extend below that level.
         b.   The middle of a ground floor shall be defined by storefront
windows and awnings, canopies, or similar weather protection features. Such
windows shall conform to this section. In a multi-story building, a belt course
or similar continuous detail shall define the break between stories.
         c.   The building top shall be defined by a cornice or parapet
incorporating materials and proportions that are consistent with the overall
composition of the building. Cornices and parapets must wrap around all four
(4) sides of the building, consistent with subsection A of this section.
      2.   Roof elevations shall be articulated consistent with the historical
pattern and rhythm of buildings developed in the 1900s through 1930s.
Acceptable roof forms include flat roofs with stepped parapets or cornices,
shed roofs and front facing gables incorporating a parapet wall, gambrel and
cross gable roofs, turrets or towers. Mansard, flat roofs without stepped
parapets or cornices, gable dominant fronts, and other historically
inappropriate forms are not permitted.
      3.   There shall be no blank walls. Building elevations facing a street
or civic space shall contain transparent windows and/or doors over at least
fifty percent (50%) of such ground floor elevations (surface area), and over at
least thirty percent (30%) of all upper stories facing a street or civic space.
Except as required by applicable building codes, windows are not required on
elevations that do not face a street or civic space; nor are they required on
common walls or those that have a zero setback abutting another property that
may develop with a zero setback, creating a common wall in the future.
Elevations not containing windows, as specified above, shall have detailing and
changes in materials and texture distinguishing between the building's base,
middle and top and providing visual relief consistent with the overall
composition of the building design ("4 sides" designed).
Example of a contemporary interpretation of historic building forms and rhythms
with articulated facade and roof elevation. Note: Building has a base, middle
and top. (Source: Clatskanie Downtown Resource Team Report)
      4.   Ground floor windows, when sized differently than upper story
windows, shall be larger than upper story windows. Window shapes and sizes
should be consistent in rhythm and orientation within each elevation. This does
not mean that all windows must be the same shape and size; when windows vary in
size or shape, the dimensions should be similar from one window to another, and
have the effect of creating a rhythm across the building, and from one building
to another.
      5.   Parapets, when used, shall vary in height and character from
building to building to reinforce the storefront character and pedestrian scale
downtown. New buildings that are taller than existing adjacent buildings should
have parapets that step down, or otherwise respond to the rhythm of the other
existing structures. Cornices from one building to another should align or be
offset by not less than a half story or five feet (5') to differentiate between
buildings. When used, false fronts (e.g., wood panel or board and batten
siding) should be compatible with the overall composition of the building
(e.g., old western style) and not cover historic facades. False fronts that do
not conform to a style found in Clatskanie's historical developments are not
permitted.
      6.   Exterior building wall materials should be predominately brick,
masonry, stone, wood (lap, shingle or panel siding), or precast stone block or
veneer. Outside trim, signs, lighting, detailing and other exterior elements
may incorporate brick, masonry, stone, wood, or earth tone metals (e.g.,
canopies, railings, flashing, ornamentation, wainscoting, signs, and similar
elements). Synthetic materials that are similar in appearance and durability to
those listed (e.g., cultured stone, concrete composite lumber, etc.) may be
approved by the review body on a case by case basis, provided the material is
shown to be compatible with the overall composition of the building and it is
as durable as other permitted materials. Plastics, vinyl, unfinished concrete
block, aggregate finishes, reflective/metallic finishes, and similar materials,
textures and finishes are not permitted on surfaces that would be visible from
a public right of way, civic space, park, or the Clatskanie River.
      7.   Exterior colors, including buildings, signs, landscape features,
street furnishings, etc., shall predominately be warm, earth tone colors.
Bright colors are not permitted, except as follows:
         a.   Nonearth tone colors may be approved through site plan review
where they are used as accents only; such color may be approved for trim or
signage, provided that it is applied over not more than five percent (5%) of a
building elevation or sign, and it is not a fluorescent or neon color as
described in subsections B7b and B7c of this section.
         b.   Fluorescent (e.g., Day-Glo), glittery, reflective, metallic, and
similar colors and finishes are not permitted.
         c.   Neon is allowed for window signage, provided that the sign area
does not exceed six (6) square feet "per elevation". Other applications of neon
may be approved through site plan review provided the planning commission finds
the application of neon to be consistent with one of downtown Clatskanie's
recognized historic architectural styles (e.g., art deco). See also section
9-9D-5-8, "Signs", of this article.
      8.   New exterior remodels and painting shall conform to the above
criteria. Existing materials, paint colors and finishes that do not conform to
the above criteria shall be allowed to phase out over time as amortization
occurs.
Examples of acceptable (top) and unacceptable (bottom) building elements in
downtown.
(Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-6: RIVERFRONT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Riverfront Development Guidelines: Developments that provide visual or
physical access to the Clatskanie River are encouraged.
      1.   Where a property abuts the Clatskanie River it should include visual
or physical river access, for example, at public viewing points, promenades,
docks or boat landings, where practicable.
      2.   Where physical access is not practicable, views of the water from
adjacent rights of way should be maintained or enhanced, where practicable.
      3.   Balconies, decks, outdoor seating areas, and other water enjoyment
features are encouraged in new development.
   B.   Riverfront Amenities Incentive: In order to protect and enhance
economic vitality and property values in the downtown, and to enhance
livability, the review body may approve a building height bonus of ten feet
(10'), or may adjust other design standards contained in this article, through
site plan review where it finds that a development provides exceptional public
access to the Clatskanie River, consistent with subsection A of this section,
section
9-9D-5-9, "Civic Spaces", of this article, and other provisions of this
article. In addition, the city of Clatskanie may offer urban renewal assistance
to facilitate public access to the river 1 .
   C.   Consistency With Other Regulations: Where riverfront development is
permitted, it shall conform to applicable floodplain and wetlands requirements.
The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining any state or federal permits
that may be required. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-9D-5-9, "Civic Spaces", of this article.
9-9D-5-7: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
   A.   Landscaping: Up to eighty percent (80%) of the required fifteen percent
(15%) landscaping in the C-1 zone 1  may be comprised of plaza space. The
review body may require the use of pervious, hardscape materials such as pavers
set in sand (e.g., plazas) that allow water infiltration. Such areas shall be
designed to accommodate expected stormwater runoff. In determining whether to
allow hardscape materials as a substitute for plantings, the approval body
shall consider the suitability of the area as a civic space under section
9-9D-5-9 of this article.
   B.   Mechanical Equipment And Refuse Storage:
      1.   Building Walls: Mechanical equipment, such as utility vaults, air
compressors, generators, antennas, satellite dishes, or similar equipment shall
be oriented away from all streets and civic spaces. Where such equipment is
installed on a side or rear building elevation and is adjacent to an alley,
accessway, or civic space, its appearance shall be minimized using materials
and/or colors that are similar to those used on the subject building.
Standpipes, meters, vaults, and similar equipment should not be placed on a
front elevation when other alternatives exist; such equipment shall be placed
low on a side or rear elevation to the extent practicable.
      2.   Rooftops: Rooftop mechanical equipment shall not be visible from the
street or any alley, pedestrian accessway, plaza or other civic space. Such
units should be painted with muted, earth tone colors that make them visually
subordinate to their backgrounds.
      3.   Ground Mounted Mechanical Equipment And/Or Refuse Facilities:
Mechanical equipment and refuse storage facilities shall be limited to side or
rear yards and screened with fences or walls constructed of materials similar
to those on adjacent buildings. Hedges may also be used as screens where there
is adequate sunlight and irrigation to ensure their successful growth. (Ord.
651, 12-12-2007)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  9-10-6 of this title.
9-9D-5-8: SIGNS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The number, size, configuration, placement, color,
materials, and illumination of signs all play a part in shaping the built
environment. Signs in the downtown north of Nehalem Street should function
primarily as tools for pedestrianway finding and business identification.
Business identification does not require that owners maximize the size or
number of signs. Traffic on Nehalem Street is slow which, together with the
building design standards, will enable motorists and pedestrians to notice
signs at a relatively small scale. Unique buildings, by themselves, can become
icons and serve as signs for the businesses inside them. Billboards and other
signs designed to a "highway scale" are not permitted.
   B.   Sign Standards: In addition to the requirements of chapter 12, "Sign
Regulations", of this title, the following standards apply:
      1.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed a height of eight feet (8') and
are limited to thirty six (36) square feet per sign face.
      2.   Neon signs and neon lighting shall conform to the provisions in
section
9-9D-5-5 of this article.
      3.   All nonconforming signs existing as of the adoption of the ordinance
codified herein, shall be removed or modified to conform to current standards
when there is a change in use or the subject property comes in for site plan
review.
   C.   Sign Guidelines: Optimally, very few signs should be necessary to
identify a building and businesses within it. Buildings themselves should be
unique in their design and serve as icons or signs for the businesses they
house. The intent is for new signs to be predominately low profile and
pedestrian scale in design; blade signs, canopy and awning signs, and other
integrated building signs are encouraged. Building signs should be designed to
fit the overall composition of a building's architecture. Note: The planning
commission reviews signs requiring a building permit. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-9: CIVIC SPACES:
Civic spaces, such as plazas, extra wide sidewalks, outdoor seating areas,
pedestrian accessways between buildings, alcoves, and pocket parks, provide
visual relief, pedestrian resting areas, and opportunities for socialization.
Civic spaces do not have to be publicly owned or maintained. Public or private,
they are as important as building design and centralized parking areas to the
success of downtown. Therefore, the city encourages the provision of civic
space and other public amenities in new developments and redevelopment projects
with the following incentives:
   A.   Civic Space Development Incentive: The review body may grant a building
height bonus of up to ten feet (10'), or one full story (whichever is greater),
or modify other development standards contained in this article, for projects
that voluntarily provide civic space(s) equal to or greater than six percent
(6%) of the gross site area of the project and/or incorporate river access
feature(s), as described in section
9-9D-5-6 of this article. In modifying a development standard under this
provision the approval body shall find that the change equally or better meets
the purpose of the C-1-D overlay in section
9-9D-1 of this article.
   B.   Other Public Amenities: Projects providing public parking, street
furnishings, or other public amenities, as approved by the review body, may
receive a height bonus or modification to other development standards contained
in this article.
   C.   Conditions Of Approval: Project approvals shall be conditioned to
ensure that all civic spaces, including sidewalk and plaza extensions abutting
the public right of way, are constructed according to city standards and
specifications (e.g., pavers, furnishings, etc.). (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9D-5-10: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
The number, size, design, and placement of lights all contribute to creating a
safe and aesthetically pleasing downtown. Unnecessary or excessive lighting can
contribute to light pollution and diminish views of the night sky. Lights in
the central business district should function primarily as tools for
pedestrianway finding and business visibility. Business visibility does not
require that owners fully illuminate their building and parking areas. The
street plan for downtown includes sidewalk lighting (antique streetlamps)
which, together with modest on site lighting in developments, will enable
motorists and pedestrians to recognize businesses and safely walk to them.
   A.   Lighting Guidelines: Exterior lights shall be designed to fit their
particular location and function. They should be simple in character and
similar in color and intensity to those used traditionally.
      1.   Building mounted lights should complement the building background in
style; using lights to draw attention to (wash) architectural elements is
encouraged, provided that unshielded, high intensity light sources and those
that direct light upward without cut offs will not be permitted. (See
subsection A2 of this section.) Lights should generally conform to the city's
street lighting program.
      2.   Antique style lights are preferred over recessed can lights or
institutional style fixtures at building entrances. Contemporary light fixtures
that draw on historic elements or provide a new interpretation of a historic
style are encouraged.
   B.   Lighting Standards: The following standards apply to exterior lighting:
      1.   Highway style lights (e.g., cobra head, davit pole, and similar
styles) are prohibited.
      2.   Light poles and fixtures shall not exceed a height of twenty feet
(20') above the nearest grade.
      3.   The visual impacts of site and architectural lighting, such as
overspray of light onto adjacent residential properties and lights shining into
the night sky, shall be minimized. Unshielded, high intensity light sources and
those that direct their light upward are not permitted. Globe lights (i.e.,
those that are not otherwise shielded inside a fixture) are not permitted.
      4.   Lighting associated with service areas, parking lots and parking
structures, as well as streetlights, shall be shielded or provide cut offs to
minimize light pollution.
      5.   The review body may require timers or activity switches be installed
to prevent unnecessary sources of light by controlling the length of time that
exterior lights are in use late at night.
      6.   Lights used to wash a building elevation (including any signs) shall
not wash more than seventy five percent (75%) of the facade. Interior lights
(e.g., store displays, etc.) are exempt.
      7.   Pedestrianways and entrances that are not otherwise illuminated by
building mounted lights or streetlights shall be illuminated to two (2) foot-
candles using bollards, step lights, or other low profile fixtures that are
appropriate for walkways and plazas and are consistent with the city's street
lighting program.
      8.   The use of neon lighting and/or signage shall conform to the
provisions in section
9-9D-5-5 of this article. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
ARTICLE E. C-1-H HIGHWAY DESIGN OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-9E-1: Purpose And Intent
9-9E-2: Applicability Of Provisions
9-9E-3: Permitted Uses
9-9E-4: Design Standards And Guidelines
9-9E-4-1: Setbacks And Highway Buffer
9-9E-4-2: Building Design
9-9E-4-3: Building Orientation, Access And Parking
9-9E-4-4: Pedestrian Circulation
9-9E-4-5: Signs
9-9E-4-6: Exterior Lighting
9-9E-4-7: Landscaping And Screening
9-9E-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the highway design commercial overlay (C-1-H)
zone is to maintain a unique sense of place and enhance the appearance of
Clatskanie adjacent to Highway 30 while supporting a wide range of commercial
land uses with improved accessibility, visibility, and circulation for all
modes of transportation.
   B.   Intent: C-1-H standards are intended to implement the vision for
community gateways. The standards reflect the following values and objectives:
      1.   Continue to develop at a compact, village scale.
      2.   Implement a continuous walkway system with connections to multiuse
path(s) along the highway and the river.
      3.   Provide a consistent landscape edge between the highway (roadway)
and required sidewalks or pathways, as applicable.
      4.   Design buildings that express a modern interpretation of
Clatskanie's architectural heritage (1900s through 1930s) and prohibit formula
or chain store designs found along highways in other communities.
      5.   Use contextually appropriate materials, textures and colors.
      6.   Encourage consolidated and shared parking areas oriented away from
Highway 30.
      7.   Break down large buildings into smaller masses.
      8.   Balance rhythm and continuity; encourage creativity in the design of
building elevations, rooflines, and facade elements.
      9.   Treat corner lots as focal points (e.g., public art, seating, etc.).
      10.   Provide weather protection with awnings and canopies over building
entrances. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application To C-1 Zone: The C-1-H overlay supplements the standards
contained in the base C-1 zone by refining the permissible uses, densities, and
design standards for all properties located within one hundred feet (100') of
the Highway 30 right of way. The standards in this article apply to the full
extent of all parcels abutting or located within one hundred feet (100') of the
highway right of way, except for those properties subject to the C-1-D overlay,
as designated on the city of Clatskanie zoning map.
   B.   Guidelines Versus Standards: The city of Clatskanie distinguishes
between standards and guidelines. The word "shall" or "must" typically
indicates a standard, required element or specification. Guidelines are
supplementary to standards. Guidelines are not mandatory, but not ignorable
either. The words "should", "preferred" and "recommend" typically indicate
guidelines, which may allow different options for meeting a particular standard
or required element. Standards may also specify things that are "prohibited" or
"not permitted". Any standard contained in this chapter may be modified or
adjusted by the planning commission through site plan review (section
9-3-7 of this title) upon the commission finding that the applicant's proposed
design equally or better meets the intent of the standard to be modified, and
such change is consistent with the purpose in section
9-9E-1 of this article.
   C.   Use Of Graphics: The graphics contained in this article are to be
interpreted as examples of elements, styles, and design treatments fulfilling
the C-1-H standards. Unless a graphic provides a specific dimensional standard
or uses the word "shall", it is intended to be used as a guideline, consistent
with subsection B of this section.
   D.   Existing Versus New Uses Or Development: Existing uses and developments
are not required to conform to the C-1-H standards until new development or
redevelopment is proposed, as follows:
      1.   Conformance to the design standards and guidelines in sections
9-9E-4-1 through
9-9E-4-6 of this article is required for projects involving an exterior
building remodel or physical change to any sign, in which case an application
for site plan review is required under section
9-3-7 of this title.
      2.   The design guidelines and standards in sections
9-9E-4-1 through
9-9E-4-6 of this article are applied through site plan review as follows:
         a.   New building: All of the overlay zone standards apply.
         b.   Building addition or redevelopment that increases the floor area
of building(s) by fifty percent (50%) or more, or development equaling fifty
percent (50%) or more of the value of existing improvements on the site
according to the Columbia County assessor's office (whichever is less): All of
the overlay zone standards apply.
         c.   Building addition, redevelopment, or exterior remodel requiring a
building permit, but not meeting the thresholds under subsection D2a or D2b of
this section: Standards apply to that portion of the building(s) and/or site
that is subject to exterior modification(s).
         d.   Project not requiring a building permit but changing an exterior
element (building, sign, parking, landscaping, circulation, etc.) with regard
to color, materials, and/or finishes: Sections
9-9E-4-1 through
9-9E-4-7 of this article apply to that portion of the building or site that is
subject to exterior modification(s).
   E.   Adjustments And Modifications To The Standards: The standards contained
in this document may be adjusted or modified by the planning commission without
the need for a variance upon finding that the purpose the standard can be
better met through the applicant's proposed (alternative) design solution.
Where the language suggests more than one way to meet a particular standard,
the applicant is encouraged to be creative and propose the most appropriate
design solution given the site's context and the purpose of the code. Where the
applicant proposes an alternate design that is not clearly supported by the
standards, the review body will refer to the above purpose and the guidelines
of the applicable sections below. These "guidelines" will serve as the approval
criteria for such requests. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The land uses that are permitted outright or
conditionally in the C-1 zone are also permitted outright or conditionally, as
applicable, in the C-1-H zone. In addition, the following uses are permitted:
      1.   Residential use permitted and developed concurrently with a
commercial use and located above the ground floor commercial space; or
      2.   Ground floor residential use permitted and developed concurrently
with a commercial use, provided the total floor area of all residential
structures on the subject site does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
floor area approved for the site; or
      3.   Ground floor residential use permitted and developed concurrently
with a commercial use, provided the residential development (includes
buildings, decks, patios, parking, landscape, trash storage, etc.) does not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the subject parcel.
      4.   For the purpose of this section, "permitted" means approved through
site plan review.
   B.   Prohibited Uses: The land uses that are prohibited in the C-1 zone are
also prohibited in the C-1-H zone.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The land uses that are allowed with a conditional use
permit in C-1 are also allowed with a conditional use permit in C-1-H. (Ord.
651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4: DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES:
9-9E-4-1: SETBACKS AND HIGHWAY BUFFER:
   A.   Setbacks And Buffer Requirement: The setbacks are the same as for the
C-1 base zone, except a landscape buffer of not less than twenty feet (20')
shall be installed between Highway 30 and all required sidewalks or pathways,
except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Adjustments To Highway Buffer: The buffer specified in subsection A of
this section may be reduced in width through site plan review for uses other
than those listed in subsection 9-9E-3C of this article, where the review body
finds all of the following criteria are met:
      1.   Existing development or right of way constraints preclude a larger
buffer.
      2.   The reduction in buffer width is the minimum necessary to address
existing site constraints;
      3.   The constraint or hardship required by the buffer has not been
caused by the developer; and
      4.   The development provides additional landscaping located elsewhere on
the site that exceeds the minimum required landscaping for the project and
mitigates for the reduction in highway buffer landscaping (e.g., additional
landscape islands with trees within a surface parking lot).
   C.   Highway Buffer Standards: In addition to the provisions under
subsection A of this section, the following requirements apply to highway
frontages:
      1.   Individual parcels may receive not more than one driveway access
across the buffer, subject to city and ODOT approval.
      2.   The buffer shall contain trees spaced on average not more than
thirty feet (30') apart and contain low growing shrubs and ground cover plants.
The plantings shall be planned to provide one hundred percent (100%) coverage
after two (2) years.
      3.   Trees shall be at least three inch (3") caliper at the time of
planting.
      4.   All plant material shall be subject to review and approval through
site plan review and may be subject to modification by ODOT for vision
clearance requirements.
      5.   New development within the C-1-H gateway areas is required to
install a multiuse path not less than ten feet (10') in width, similar to the
path located east of the Clatskanie River bridge. The path should conform to
the natural topography and meander to provide visual interest. The pathway
should afford views of and access to the river wherever practicable and contain
benches. Public art should be provided at key locations along the path, such as
near the bridge, the viewpoint next to the boat launch, and adjacent to the
ball fields at the west end.
      6.   In areas where the C-1-H transitions to the C-1-D, the review body
may reduce the buffer width and allow a ten foot (10') wide curbed sidewalk
with tree wells. The review body may consider each case individually and apply
the standards as appropriate to the situation and to provide compatibility with
the C-1-D design standards. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4-2: BUILDING DESIGN:
The C-1-H standards for building entrances, building design, and signs are the
same as for the C-1-D overlay. Refer to sections
9-9D-5-5 and
9-9D-5-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4-3: BUILDING ORIENTATION, ACCESS AND PARKING:
   A.   Building Orientation: Buildings shall be oriented to a street, with
their primary entrances opening onto a walkway. Where a public street does not
exist, buildings shall be oriented to a driveway that is designed to mimic a
public street in its appearance and function (e.g., 6 to 8 foot sidewalk,
street trees, pedestrian scale lighting, on street parking), as generally shown
below.
   B.   Vehicle Access And Parking: New developments shall provide for an
interconnected system of streets and/or driveways with a minimal number of
direct access points onto Highway 30. Such streets and driveways must form
blocks that are walkable in scale and design and distribute vehicular traffic
safely and efficiently, consistent with the standards in subsection D of this
section. Off street parking, service areas, deliver bays, drive-up windows and
kiosks, storage areas, and similar facilities shall be oriented away from
pedestrian entrances and street sidewalks and screened. A landscape buffer at
least five feet (5') in width shall be required between off street parking
areas and adjacent street sidewalks. See also section
9-9E-4-1 of this article.
   C.   Access To Highway 30: Applicants for projects abutting or receiving
access from Highway 30 shall demonstrate that all Oregon department of
transportation permit requirements have been met, or can be satisfied through
conditions of site plan approval.
Formation of blocks, building entrances, and pedestrian connections. Properties
fronting onto Highway 30 would also provide a multiuse path and landscape
buffer.
   D.   Pedestrian Circulation Through Large Blocks: Where a project site
consists of more than four hundred feet (400') of frontage onto Highway 30, a
pedestrian accessway (8 foot concrete path within a 20 foot landscaped public
access easement) shall be provided at or near the middle of the project's
highway frontage, connecting it to the pathway system along the highway. Where
no pathway system exists, the developer shall install one that conforms to city
standards or propose an alternate public pedestrian accessway serving the site
and pedestrian through traffic (e.g., along the Clatskanie River). Where such
access easement is also required to provide access for emergency vehicles, a
minimum unobstructed clearance of fourteen feet (14') is required.
   E.   Pedestrian Oriented Commercial Development: Shopping center developers
often want to orient building pads around large, uninterrupted fields of
parking, with high auto trip generating uses, such as restaurants, banks, and
gas stations, located at the corners. That type of development pattern creates
transportation problems, such as conflicting turning movements and safety
hazards for pedestrians, as well as an unsightliness, or "strip commercial"
look, along a highway. It also creates pedestrian "dead zones" and discourages
linked/crossover trips by pedestrians. Therefore, developments containing more
than one building site or pad, including commercial subdivisions containing
outlying commercial pads, shall meet the following standards, as generally
depicted in the graphics below:
      1.   Blocks Defined By Street: The site shall be configured into blocks
having frontage onto streets or shopping streets. Shopping streets are private
driveways designed to mimic local streets with on street parking bays (parallel
or angled parking), sidewalks, street trees, pedestrian lighting, building
entrances placed at or near the shopping street or plaza, and corner building
entrances at block corners.
      2.   Maximum Block Length: Blocks shall not exceed four hundred feet
(400') in length, and shall have a perimeter that does not exceed one thousand
six hundred feet (1,600'), consistent with subsection D of this section.
      3.   Pedestrian Accessway As Alternative To Street Connection: Where new
street access onto Highway 30 is not permitted, a pedestrian accessway
conforming to the standards in subsection D of this section may count as block
edges. Covered pedestrian walkways (e.g., canopies or porticos) are encouraged,
but walkways inside buildings are not counted as block edges.
      4.   Access To Highway: Access to Highway 30 is subject to review and
permit approval by ODOT.
   F.   Shared Access Easement: Where practicable and to mitigate development
impacts or to manage access onto Highway 30, the approval body may require an
applicant to record a shared access easement and/or construct a shared driveway
connecting to an adjacent property (e.g., where a cross access easement for
this purpose already exists or it is feasible to obtain one in the future).
Examples of shopping streets used to meet the block layout standards and the
building orientation standards when public street frontage is not available.
Note: The above driveways do not have to extend through to Highway 30, provided
that a pedestrian connection is made to the required multiuse path.
(Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4-4: PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION:
   A.   General Guidelines And Standards: The pedestrian circulation system
should provide a direct, convenient, and comfortable means of accessing
individual uses and connecting to other parts of the community via sidewalks,
pathways, midblock accessways, and area trails, as applicable. To ensure safe,
direct, and convenient pedestrian circulation, all developments shall provide a
continuous pedestrian system. The pedestrian system shall conform to the
following guidelines and standards:
      1.   Continuous Walkway System: The pedestrian system shall extend
throughout the development site and connect to adjacent sidewalk(s). The system
shall also provide stubs to allow for their continuation through future phases
of development, and to existing or planned off site adjacent pedestrianways and
civic spaces, to the greatest extent practicable.
      2.   Safe, Direct, And Convenient: Walkways within developments shall
provide safe, reasonably direct, and convenient connections between all
building entrances and between primary entrances and adjacent sidewalks,
consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   Reasonably Direct: A route that does not deviate unnecessarily
from a straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of
out of direction travel for likely users.
         b.   Safe And Convenient: Routes that are reasonably free from hazards
and provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destinations. Walkways
shall connect all building entrances to one another to the extent practicable.
         c.   On And Off Site Connections: Walkways shall connect all on site
parking areas and civic spaces, and shall connect off site adjacent walkways to
the site to the extent practicable. Obstacles posed by existing structures may
be cause for not making walkway connections.
   B.   Pedestrian Facility Design And Construction: Walkways, including
midblock pedestrian accessways, shall conform to all of the following
standards:
      1.   Vehicle/Walkway Separation: Except for crosswalks, where a walkway
abuts a driveway or street, it shall be raised six inches (6") and curbed along
the edge of the driveway/street. Alternatively, the planning commission may
approve a walkway abutting a driveway at the same grade as the driveway if the
walkway is protected from all vehicle maneuvering areas. An example of such
protection is a row of decorative metal or concrete bollards designed to
withstand a vehicle's impact, with adequate minimum spacing between them to
protect pedestrians.
      2.   Crosswalks: Where a walkway crosses a parking area, driveway, or
street ("crosswalk"), it shall be clearly marked with contrasting paving
materials (e.g., pavers, brick, or stamped/scored concrete inlay), which may be
part of a raised/speed table type of crossing area. Painted or thermoplastic
striping and similar types of nonpermanent applications may be approved for
crosswalks not exceeding twenty four feet (24') in length.
      3.   Walkway Width And Surface: Walkway and pedestrian accessways shall
be at least five feet (5') in width and constructed with stamped or scored
concrete, brick/masonry pavers, or other durable surface that contrasts with
the driveway paving surface.
      4.   Accessible Routes: Walkways shall conform to applicable Americans
with disabilities act (ADA) guidelines and standards. The ends of all raised
walkways, where the walkway intersects a driveway or street shall provide ramps
that are ADA accessible, and walkways shall provide direct routes to primary
building entrances. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4-5: SIGNS:
The C-1-H standards for signs are the same as for the C-1-D overlay. Refer to
section
9-9D-5-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4-6: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
The C-1-H standards for lighting are the same as for the C-1-D overlay. Refer
to section
9-9D-5-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9E-4-7: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
   A.   General Landscaping Requirements: On site landscaping (15 percent of
site minimum) is required in conformance with section
9-10-6 of this title. Where a developer installs a twenty foot (20') wide
highway buffer area, as required under section
9-9E-4-1 of this article, the review body may allow the highway buffer to count
for up to twenty percent (20%) of the required on site landscape area.
   B.   Landscaping Of Off Street Parking Areas: All off street parking areas
with more than twenty (20) parking spaces shall be divided into bays of not
more than ten (10) continuous parking spaces per bay. Landscape islands or
dividers shall have dimensions of not less than four feet (4') and shall
contain at least sixty four (64) square feet each. The review body may allow
surface retention or detention of stormwater in landscape swales that are
engineered to accommodate stormwater.
   C.   Mechanical Equipment And Refuse Storage:
      1.   Building Walls: Mechanical equipment, such as utility vaults, air
compressors, generators, antennas, satellite dishes, or similar equipment shall
be oriented away from all streets and civic spaces. Where such equipment is
installed on a side or rear building elevation and is adjacent to an alley,
accessway, or civic space, its appearance shall be minimized using materials
and/or colors that are similar to those used on the subject building.
Standpipes, meters, vaults, and similar equipment should not be placed on a
front elevation when other alternatives exist; such equipment shall be placed
low on a side or rear elevation to the extent practicable.
      2.   Rooftops: Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened.
      3.   Ground Mounted Mechanical Equipment And/Or Refuse Facilities:
Mechanical equipment and refuse storage facilities shall be screened from view
of public rights of way with fences or walls constructed of materials similar
to those on adjacent buildings. Hedges may also be used as screens where there
is adequate sunlight and irrigation to ensure their successful growth. (Ord.
651, 12-12-2007)
ARTICLE F. MU-R MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-9F-1: Purpose
9-9F-2: Applicability Of Provisions
9-9F-3: Permitted Uses
9-9F-4: Design Standards And Guidelines For Residentially Zoned Properties
Within The MU-R Overlay
9-9F-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The mixed use residential (MU-R) overlay zone promotes
transportation efficiency, economic development and housing options through a
mix of compatible employment and residential uses located close to downtown
Clatskanie.
   B.   Intent: The MU-R overlay is intended to provide greater flexibility in
permitting small, neighborhood serving commercial uses adjacent to downtown or
on main thoroughfares. The MU-R overlay allows limited commercial uses to
locate within a residential zone. The MU-R development standards are intended
to maintain compatibility with existing residential uses and with downtown
commercial uses. It is not the intent of this article to prohibit residential
uses, or to impose requirements that are more restrictive than those contained
in the applicable base residential (R-5 or MFR) zoning district. The MU-
R overlay does not affect home occupations, which are addressed separately
under section
9-13-4 of this title. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9F-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of MU-R Overlay To Residentially (R) Zoned Properties: The
MU-R overlay can only be applied to any property zoned R-5 or MFR, subject to
the following procedures and approval criteria:
      1.   The planning commission shall conduct a quasi-judicial public
hearing (section
9-3-7 of this title) on the proposed MU-R rezoning, and either approve or deny
the request; or in the case of an MU-R overlay application filed jointly with
an application for tentative plan review, the commission may approve the MU-
R overlay subject to specific conditions (e.g., development agreement).
      2.   A rezoning to MU-R may be approved after the commission considers
findings on the criteria listed below and public testimony:
         a.   The MU-R designation is consistent with the above purpose and
intent provisions (section
9-9F-1 of this article);
         b.   The MU-R designation promotes a logical transition between
residential and commercial zones (i.e., limited commercial activity is
appropriate); and
         c.   Allowing limited commercial activity on the subject property will
not be detrimental to any abutting single-family use with regard to parking,
noise, traffic, or similar concerns; i.e., beyond those that are customary
under the base (R-5 or MFR) residential zone.
      3.   Any appeal of a planning commission decision under this section
shall be reviewed by city council in a de novo quasi- judicial hearing under
section
9-3-7 of this title.
   B.   Existing Versus New Uses Or Development:
      1.   Land uses and developments existing prior to an area being rezoned
to MU-R are not required to conform to the MU-R standards.
      2.   New uses in the MU-R zone, including conversions of existing
residential uses to commercial or residential commercial use, are required to
conform to the MU-R overlay provisions.
   C.   Application Of Zoning Ordinance To MU-R Zone: Except as modified by
this chapter, all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance, including the
provisions of the base zone (R-5 or MFR, as applicable), shall continue to
apply to properties designated MU-R. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9F-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses In Residential Zones In MU-R Zone:
      1.   The land uses that are permitted outright or conditionally in the
underlying residential (R-5 or MFR) zone, as applicable, are also permitted
outright or conditionally in the MU-R overlay, subject to the design standards
in section
9-9F-4 of this article.
      2.   The following uses are permitted in the MU-R zone with site plan
review (section
9-3-7 of this title) and subject to the design standards in section
9-9F-4 of this article: offices, and service commercial uses, except those
listed in subsection A3 of this section, and provided that:
         a.   Individual commercial uses shall not exceed two thousand (2,000)
square feet of floor area;
         b.   The maximum allowable floor area of commercial use on any parcel
is four thousand (4,000) square feet; and
         c.   The hearing authority in reviewing a site plan for commercial use
in the MU-R zone may impose conditions of approval on commercial hours of
operation, exterior building design and appearance, and/or off street vehicle
parking to ensure compatibility with adjacent residential uses.
      3.   Commercial uses allowed under subsection A2 of this section are not
considered home occupations. Home occupations need only comply with the
standards and procedures in section
9-13-4 of this title.
   B.   Prohibited Uses In Residential Zones With MU-R Overlay:
      1.   Retail, restaurants, drinking establishments, entertainment uses,
and similar uses.
      2.   Drive-up/drive-through facilities.
      3.   Automobile service, sales, repair and/or storage.
      4.   Outdoor commercial uses, including outdoor display of merchandise.
      5.   Any new or expanded garage proposed in conjunction with a commercial
use. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
9-9F-4: DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIALLY ZONED PROPERTIES
WITHIN THE MU-R OVERLAY:
Structures in residential zones shall be residential in appearance. Residential
appearance is evaluated through site plan review (section
9-3-7 of this title). The review body shall apply criteria in subsections A
through H of this section:
   A.   Roof elevation shall consist of gables or other pitched roof form. Roof
pitch shall be a minimum of six to twelve (6:12). Flat roofs and mansard roofs
are prohibited.
   B.   Siding shall be limited to wood (lap, shingle and/or architectural
grade panel) siding, brick, stucco, natural stone or similar material.
Composite materials that resemble the above materials in appearance and
durability may be substituted for wood. Vinyl and metal siding is prohibited.
   C.   Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Setbacks shall conform to the setbacks of the underlying residential
zone.
   E.   Lot coverage shall conform to the setbacks of the underlying zone.
   F.   Signs (all types) shall not exceed a total of sixteen (16) square feet
of sign face per lot or parcel in the MU-R zone. Signs shall be designed with
materials that are compatible with those of the primary structure, subject to
site plan review.
   G.   The review body may impose other architectural requirements and/or
landscaping requirements, consistent with adjacent development, to ensure a
residential appearance.
   H.   Where a lawfully established residential use occupies a structure that
does not conform to the standards in subsections A through G of this section,
the residential use may continue, but no commercial use of that structure is
allowed until the standards of this article are met. (Ord. 651, 12-12-2007)
ARTICLE G. ED EMPLOYMENT DISTRICT ZONE
SECTION:
9-9G-1: Purpose
9-9G-2: Permitted Uses
9-9G-3: Permitted With Notice Uses
9-9G-4: Conditional Uses
9-9G-5: Dimensional Standards
9-9G-6: Performance Standards
9-9G-1: PURPOSE:
The district is designed to provide for a variety of employment opportunities
such as office, retail, or manufacturing in an aesthetic environment and having
a minimal impact on surrounding uses. (Ord. 672, 10-29-2014)
9-9G-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the ED zone, the following uses and their accessory uses are permitted:
Banks, savings, credit union, stocks, mortgages, finance and insurance.
Conference facilities and meeting rooms.
Employment training and business services.
Offices, including real estate and government.
Postal services - public and private.
Printing, publishing, bookbinding, graphic and photographic reproduction,
blueprinting or photo processing, photoengraving.
Software development. (Ord. 672, 10-29-2014)
9-9G-3: PERMITTED WITH NOTICE USES:
In an ED zone, the following uses may be permitted by the city manager after
public notice, pursuant to section
9-3-7 of this title, and public input has been received. The city manager may
refer the application to the full planning commission upon his discretion.
Decisions made by the city manager under this section shall be subject to
appeal, pursuant to section
9-3-9 of this title.
Art stores, galleries, photography studios and shops.
Bakeries, retail.
Barbershops, beauty shops, and other personal services.
Childcare facilities.
Custom dressmaking, tailoring.
Drugstores, pharmacies.
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores.
Internet fulfillment.
Office equipment (sales and service).
Research and development offices and laboratories, related to scientific,
educational, electronics, manufacturing and communications endeavors.
Specialty retail shops, including, but not limited to, florist, music, gifts,
confectionery, books, stationery, hobby, jewelry, bath and kitchenware, shoes,
linen, furniture, hardware, garden supply, appliances and electronics stores
and delicatessens. (Ord. 672, 10-29-2014)
9-9G-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an ED zone, the following uses may be permitted by the planning commission
in accordance with section
9-14-2 of this title, and after a public hearing:
Clinics, outpatient, infirmary services.
Distributing, wholesaling and warehousing.
Dry cleaners.
Light manufacturing, design, processing, assembly, packaging, fabrication and
treatment of products made from previously prepared or semifinished materials.
Medical centers and emergency service facilities.
Trade schools and technical and professional institutes, business schools, job
training, vocational rehabilitation, exclusive or elementary, secondary, and
full curricula colleges and universities. (Ord. 672, 10-29-2014)
9-9G-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum lot areas: None.
   B.   Maximum building height: Thirty feet (30').
   C.   Minimum required setbacks: Twenty feet (20') front setback. No side or
rear yard setbacks are required, except that a thirty foot (30') setback shall
be required wherever the ED zone abuts any type of commercial or residential
zone.
   D.   Maximum allowed setbacks: No maximum limit.
   E.   Maximum site coverage of the building and parking lot: Eighty percent
(80%).
   F.   Minimum landscape requirement (including the parking lot): Fifteen
percent (15%).
   G.   The design and development of the landscaping in this district shall be
in compliance with section
9-10-6 of this title.
The planning commission, after a public hearing pursuant to section
9-3-7 of this title, may permit alternative dimensional standards proposed by
the applicant that do not substantially deviate from these standards provided
they protect surrounding and nearby properties from adverse impacts to a
similar or greater degree. (Ord. 672, 10-29-2014)
9-9G-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Air quality emissions/odor control will conform to subsection
9-13-5B of this title with no off site odor produced.
   B.   Noise levels will conform to section
5-1D-3 of this code (typical to residential measured at the property line).
   C.   Passenger car, single unit truck and tractor trailer truck trips per
day/trip caps are subject to city review and approval.
   D.   Off street parking requirement of one space per employee on the largest
shift.
   E.   No outdoor storage.
   F.   Waste disposal will conform to sections
8-5-1 through
8-5-4 of this code.
   G.   Lighting restrictions shall be 0.4 foot-candle at property line and
lighting shall conform to section
9-9D-5-10 of this chapter.
   H.   Hours of operations will be seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. with regular after hours work subject to prior written city
approval.
   I.   Sewer discharges are restricted to typical personal usage waste flows
and no cleaning products, chemical discharges or other atypical sewer
discharges are permitted.
   J.   Signage shall conform to standards outlined in section
9-12-7 of this title.
   K.   No storage of NFPA materials classed higher than health 2; flammability
1; and reactivity 1.
   L.   A business or businesses in each use category, alone or in combination,
shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total gross floor area of all of
the other permitted, permitted with notice and conditional uses within the ED
development site or complex. The total gross floor area of two (2) or more
buildings may be used, even if the buildings are not all on the same parcel or
owned by the same property owner, as long as they are part of the same
development site, as determined by the city manager. (Ord. 672, 10-29-2014)
CHAPTER 10
REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Table Of Standards
9-10-2: Minimum Lot Size
9-10-3: Required Yards And Setbacks
9-10-4: Height Limitations
9-10-5: Limitation On Residential Structures
9-10-6: Landscaping Regulations
9-10-7: Transit Improvements
9-10-1: TABLE OF STANDARDS:
The following table entitled "Table Of Standards" shows the lot area, width and
depth, setbacks, percentage of coverage and building height requirements for
each zone:
   Table
9-10-1
   TABLE OF STANDARDS
        Minimum Lot   Minimum Lot Maximum Lot                 Maximum
   ZoLot Area      Dimension   Coverage    Required Yard   Height Of
        (Square Feet)                                         Buildings
                      Width Depth             Front Side Rear
             Minimum Lot              Maximum                      Maximum
   Zone   Lot Area     Minimum Lot Lot      Required Yard       Height Of
             (Square      Dimension   Coverage                     Buildings
             Feet)
                          Width Depth          Front Side    Rear
Residential*                                                  
R-10                                                          
Single-                                                            21/
family        10,000a,b  70    90    30%      20    10 each 20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
Manufactured  10,000a,b  70    90    30%      20    10 each 20     
home
                                                           
R-7                                                         
Single-                                                            21/
family        7,000a,b   60    80    35%      20    8/10d   20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
                                                                   21/
Two-family    10,000a    60    80    35%      20    8/10d   20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
                                                                   21/
Three-family  15,000a    60    80    40%      20    8/10d   20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
Manufactured  7,000a,b   60    80    35%      20    8/10d   20     
home
                                                           
R-5                                                         
Single-                                                            21/
family        5,000a,b   50    80    35%      20    5/10d   20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
                                                                   21/
Two-family    10,000a    50    80    35%      20    5/10d   20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
                                                                   21/
Three-family  15,000a    50    80    40%      20    5/10d   20    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
Manufactured  5,000a,b   50    80    35%      20    5/10d   20     
home
                                                           
MFR                                                         
Single-                                                            21/
family        5,000a,b   60    80    35%      20    8/10d   15    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
                                                                   21/
Two-family    7,000a     60    80    40%      20    8/10d   15    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
                                                                   21/
Three-family  11,000a    60    80    40%      20    8/10d   15    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
Four unit                                                          21/
apartments    14,000a    60    80    45%      20    8/10d   15    2 stories
                                                                   or 35 feet
Five plus     3,000/unit 60    80    50%      20    8/10d   15     
units
Manufactured  5,000a,b   60    80    35%      20    8/10d   15     
home
                                                           
*Note: Residential homes and residential facilities are permitted uses in all
residential zones.
                                                           
Industrial                                                  
M-2           6,000      60    None  None     20    15c     15c   40 feet
M-1          None         None  None  None     20    15c     15c   60 feetf
                                                             
Commercial                                                    
NC            40,000g    None  None  50%      20    10d,e   Nonee 30 feet
C-1          None         None  None  None     20h   5d,e    Nonee 45 feet
 
Notes:
         a.   Minimum lot area shown is for a lot with public sewer and public
water. If, in the opinion of the county sanitarian, a lot is found to be
insufficient for a private water system and/or private septic system, the area
requirement shall be increased, and a redivision plan shall be submitted to
show how the lot can be divided when public sewer and water are available to
the site.
         b.   Single-family dwellings on a lot of record having less than the
minimum number of square feet required may be allowed if the lot is larger than
3,000 square feet.
         c.   Yard requirements of 50 feet apply when use is adjacent to a
residential zone.
         d.   On the street side of a corner lot.
         e.   The same setbacks as the adjoining residential zone shall apply.
         f.   The planning commission may approve structures higher than this
limit, if such is necessary for the operation of an allowed use.
         g.   Maximum lot area.
         h.   The front setback will be reduced to a distance equal to that
which has been previously established by existing buildings on either side.
(1996 Code § 17.68.010; amd. Ord. 599, 11-3-1999; 2004 Code)
9-10-2: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
All lots created within the city after the effective date hereof shall have a
minimum width, depth and lot area as shown in section
9-10-1, table
9-10-1, "Table Of Standards", of this chapter for the zone indicated. It is not
the intent of this title to deprive owners of substandard lots the use of their
property. Lots of record lawfully created prior to the adoption of this title
may be built on according to the following:
   A.   Connection To Public Water And Sewer: Residential lots with substandard
lot area may be built on if public sewer and public water are available to the
site and the new residence is connected to these public facilities.
   B.   Minimum Area: The residential lot has an area of more than three
thousand (3,000) square feet.
   C.   Substandard Lot: Only one residential unit is allowed on a substandard
lot.
   D.   Setbacks: A residentially zoned lot of record having less width or
depth than required by this title may be occupied by one dwelling unit;
provided, that either all required setbacks for yards are complied with, or a
variance is granted by the planning commission.
   E.   Lots Without Public Sewer And/Or Water Availability: Residential lots
without public sewer and/or public water may be built on if:
      1.   The minimum lot size for the residential lots without public sewer
and public water is increased to forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
      2.   Lots with public water, but no public sewer, shall have a minimum
lot size of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. (1996 Code § 17.68.020)
      3.   These minimum lot sizes may be increased if the county sanitarian
certifies that it is necessary for the proper installation of a septic system
under DEQ rules. (1996 Code § 17.68.020; amd. Ord. 599, 11-3-1999)
      4.   A redivision plan shall be filed with any requests for building
permits on a residential lot without public sewer and/or water. The plan shall
indicate how the lot can be redivided at such time that public sewer and public
water are available to the site. (1996 Code § 17.68.020)
9-10-3: REQUIRED YARDS AND SETBACKS:
In all zones except C-1, every building constructed after the effective date
hereof shall maintain the setbacks listed in section
9-10-1, table
9-10-1, "Table Of Standards", of this chapter, for the zone indicated. Every
part of the required yard shall remain unobstructed, with the following
exceptions (see section
9-10-1, table
9-10-1, "Table Of Standards", note h, of this chapter for C-1): (1996 Code §
17.68.030; amd. Ord. 599, 11-3-1999)
   A.   A new structure being located between two (2) existing buildings that
were sited closer to the street than allowed for in this title may use an
average of the depths of the two (2) existing front yards to establish the
front setback.
   B.   Porches, decks, terraces, and detached accessory buildings may be
constructed in a required rear yard, but shall remain not less than five feet
(5') from the property line. Accessory buildings structurally attached to the
principal building may not be constructed into any required yard.
   C.   Ordinary building projections, such as eaves, cornices and chimneys may
project into the required yards by not more than twenty four inches (24").
(1996 Code § 17.68.030)
9-10-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Certain Structures Excepted: A building constructed after the effective
date hereof shall not exceed the height listed in section
9-10-1, table
9-10-1, "Table Of Standards", of this chapter, for the zone indicated, unless
it is included in the following list of structures, which are not subject to
the building height limitations of this title: church spires, chimneys,
cupolas, tanks, smokestacks, flagpoles, radio and television towers,
communication towers, and other similar projections. (1996 Code § 17.68.040;
amd. Ord. 605, 4-4-2001)
   B.   Addition To Existing Structure: The height standard in section
9-10-1, table
9-10-1, "Table Of Standards", of this chapter shall be an average height of the
entire structure when applying to any additions to an existing structure. (2004
Code)
   C.   Variance To Requirement: Anyone seeking an exception to the building
height limitations shall apply for a variance. In addition to the variance
standards, for every foot of height allowed by the planning commission beyond
the established limit, six inches (6") shall be added to the required setbacks
for the front, side and rear yards. (1996 Code § 17.68.040)
9-10-5: LIMITATION ON RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES:
In R-10, R-7 and R-5 zones, only one principal building shall be allowed on
each lot. (1996 Code § 17.68.050)
9-10-6: LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Requirements: All landscaping, screening and buffering required
by this title and approved by the planning commission shall be installed prior
to the issuance of any occupancy permits, or a bond shall be posted to ensure
that it will be installed. All landscaping shall be maintained as originally
approved by the planning commission, unless later altered with its approval.
(1996 Code § 17.68.080; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   B.   Minimum Landscaping: In each zone, the minimum amount of landscaping
required shall be:
      1.   Residentially Zoned Properties: All residential lots built upon
after the effective date hereof shall have the front yard and at least ten
percent (10%) of the total lot area landscaped.
      2.   Nonresidential Use Abutting Residential Zone: A minimum buffer of
twenty feet (20') is required and a six foot (6') high fence or sight obscuring
hedge is to be maintained along the common property line by the nonresidential
property owner.
      3.   Commercially Zoned Properties: In the commercial zones, all sites
built upon after the effective date hereof shall have not less than fifteen
percent (15%) of the lot area landscaped.
      4.   Industrially Zoned Properties: In the industrial zones, all sites
built upon after the effective date hereof shall have landscaping based on the
size of the property. Sites up to twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in size
shall have at least fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area landscaped.
   C.   Reduction In Requirements: These requirements may be diminished by the
planning commission pursuant to the variance procedure in section
9-14-1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.68.080)
9-10-7: TRANSIT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Development proposals for sites that include existing or planned
transit facilities, as shown in the adopted Clatskanie transportation system
plan or county transit plan, may be required to provide the following:
      1.   A "reasonably direct" pedestrian connection, as defined by section
9-11-8 of this title, between the transit facility and building entrances on
the site;
      2.   A transit passenger landing pad accessible to disabled persons;
      3.   An easement or dedication for a passenger shelter or bench if such
facility is identified in the Clatskanie transportation system plan or the
adopted county transit plan;
      4.   Lighting at the transit facility. (Ord. 658, 11-4-2009)
CHAPTER 11
PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Scope; Compliance With Regulations
9-11-2: Off Street Parking General Requirements
9-11-3: Plans Required
9-11-4: Joint Use Of Facilities
9-11-5: Location Of Spaces
9-11-6: Parking And Loading Standards
9-11-7: Number Of Parking And Loading Spaces Required
9-11-8: Pedestrian Access And Circulation
9-11-1: SCOPE; COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The provision and maintenance of off street parking and loading spaces is a
continuing obligation of the property owner. After the effective date hereof,
every use commenced and every building erected or altered shall have
permanently maintained parking spaces in accordance with the provisions of this
title. No permits shall be issued until plans are presented to show that the
required parking is, and will remain, available within two hundred feet (200')
of the business location it serves. Where a use has been established prior to
the effective date hereof and does not meet the terms imposed, all of the
requirements of this title shall fully apply and be complied with at the time
the use, or the occupancy of a building, changes. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-11-2: OFF STREET PARKING GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained as set forth in this
chapter for all uses in all zones. Off street parking shall not be located in
the required front yard, except in a residential driveway area. The required
spaces shall be available for parking, and not used for storage, sale, repair
or servicing of vehicles. Nothing in this title shall be interpreted to prevent
the occasional use of parking areas for community events, special sales, public
gatherings and similar activities not otherwise prohibited. The parking shall
be provided at the time:
   A.   A new building is ready for occupancy.
   B.   A building or use existing on the effective date hereof is enlarged or
expanded.
   C.   There is a change in the use of a building with a corresponding change
in the number of parking spaces required by this title. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-11-3: PLANS REQUIRED:
A plot plan, drawn to scale, shall be submitted in duplicate to the city
manager with each application for a building permit, and shall contain the
following:
   A.   Dimension of the parking lot.
   B.   Access to the streets and location of curb cuts.
   C.   Location and size of parking spaces.
   D.   Circulation pattern.
   E.   Grade and drainage.
   F.   Abutting property.
   G.   A landscaping plan, including the location and names of all vegetation,
size and location of fencing or other screening, to be approved by the city.
(Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-11-4: JOINT USE OF FACILITIES:
Owners of two (2) or more uses, structures or parcels of land may agree to
utilize jointly the same parking and loading spaces if hours of operation do
not overlap and the city manager is provided with documentary evidence in the
form of leases or contracts securing full access to such spaces for all
parties. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-11-5: LOCATION OF SPACES:
Parking spaces required by this chapter shall be provided on the site of the
primary use or within two hundred feet (200'); unless the planning commission
determines that, on the basis of practical difficulties, the parking may be
sited up to a maximum of three hundred feet (300') distant, measured in a
straight line. Loading spaces shall be located either on or abutting the
property served. (1996 Code § 17.68.060; amd. Ord. 599, 11-3-1999; Ord. 643, 3-
1-2006)
9-11-6: PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply to all properties, except those developed
with single-family and two-family dwellings. Areas used for the parking or
maneuvering of vehicles shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Surface: A durable, hard and dustless surface that is maintained
adequately for all weather uses and is drained to avoid flow of water across
sidewalks.
   B.   Screening: Screening and design to minimize the disturbance of
residents living adjacent to the parking lot.
   C.   Average Grade: Driveways more than one hundred fifty feet (150') in
length will not exceed an average grade of twelve percent (12%). The driveway
and driveway apron shall be built and maintained by the property owner
according to specifications determined by the city based on slope and the
presence of adjacent public facilities such as a sidewalk or paved street.
   D.   Location And Access: Location and driveway access such that groups of
more than four (4) parking spaces will not require backing movements or other
maneuvering within a street right of way.
   E.   Loading Spaces, Dimensions: Loading spaces shall provide a minimum
vertical clearance of thirteen feet (13'); a width of at least twelve feet
(12'); and a length of at least thirty five feet (35') in multi-family
residential and commercial zones and sixty feet (60') in industrial zones.
   F.   Parking Spaces, Dimensions: Each parking space shall be not less than
eighteen feet (18') long and nine feet (9') wide, except for those spaces
marked "Compact Only" which may be fifteen feet (15') long and seven and one-
half feet (7.5') wide, and handicapped parking addressed in subsection G of
this section. Up to twenty percent (20%) of required parking spaces may be
designed for compact cars.
   G.   Handicapped Parking Spaces: Where less than twenty (20) spaces are
provided, at least one shall be for handicapped use, and where a greater number
are provided, the ratio shall be one handicapped space for every fifty (50)
spaces. Each handicapped space shall be at least twelve feet (12') wide and
eighteen feet (18') long and be posted with a wheelchair symbol and a sign
indicating its limited use, per Oregon Revised Statutes 447.233. The
handicapped spaces shall be located nearest to the main building entry.
   H.   Access Dimensions: Access shall be provided by not more than one 45-
foot wide curb cut driveway for each one hundred fifty feet (150') of street
frontage, or fraction thereof, per site.
   I.   Aisles: Aisles shall not be less than twenty five feet (25') in width
for ninety degree (90°) parking, twenty feet (20') in width for sixty degree
(60°) parking, twenty feet (20') in width for forty five degree (45°) parking,
and twelve feet (12') in width for parallel parking.
   J.   Parking Bays: All parking areas, except for truck loading areas, shall
be divided into bays of not more than twenty (20) parking spaces. Between and
at the end of each parking bay there shall be planters which have a minimum
width of five feet (5') and be at least seventeen feet (17') in length. Each
planter shall contain one major tree and ground cover.
   K.   Separation Of Parking Areas: Parking areas shall be separated from the
exterior wall of a structure, exclusive of paved pedestrian entranceways, by a
five foot (5') wide strip of landscaping.
   L.   Adjacent To Residential Zone; Setback; Sight Obscuring Hedge: Parking
areas abutting any residential zone shall meet the building setback of the
adjoining zone, and shall install along the common boundary line a sight
obscuring hedge.
   M.   Setback Areas: Parking areas shall be set back from a lot line
adjoining a street. The setback area shall be landscaped.
   N.   Landscaping: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the parking area shall
be landscaped and the maintenance of the landscaping shall be the owner's
responsibility.
   O.   Sight Obscuring Hedge Location: Parking and/or sight obscuring hedges
or shrubbery shall not be located in vision clearance areas.
   P.   Driveways: If the driveway is a one-way in or one-way out drive, then
the driveway shall be a minimum width of ten feet (10') and shall have
appropriate signage designating the driveway as a one-way connection. For two-
way access, each land shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10'). Driveway
approaches must be designed and located to provide an exiting vehicle with an
unobstructed view. Construction and driveways along acceleration or
deceleration lanes and tapers shall be avoided due to the potential for
vehicular weaving conflicts. The length of driveways shall be designed in
accordance with the anticipated storage length for entering and exiting
vehicles to prevent vehicles from backing into the flow of traffic on the
public street or causing unsafe conflicts with on site circulation.
   Q.   Marking: All areas used for parking shall be marked and continuously
maintained. Handicapped parking spaces shall be marked with a wheelchair
symbol.
   R.   Drainage And Lighting: Adequate drainage shall be provided to dispose
of the runoff generated by the impervious surface areas of the parking lot. The
drainage system shall function so it will not adversely affect adjoining
property. Lighting shall be provided in such a manner as to ensure the safety
of the parking area without interfering with adjoining properties or creating
traffic hazards on adjoining streets. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-11-7: NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   Residential Uses:
 
Elderly or special housing projects    1 space per unit
Mobile home park or subdivision        2 spaces per unit, plus 1 guest space
                                       for every 2 units
Multi-family or apartment              2 spaces per unit, plus 1 visitor space
                                       per each 5 units
One-family, two-family or three-family 2 spaces per unit
dwelling
Planned unit development               2 spaces per unit, plus 1 guest space
                                       for every 2 units
 
   B.   Public And Semipublic Uses:
 
Auditorium or meeting room 1 space for each 60 square feet of floor space
Church                     1 space for each 80 feet of floor area
Elementary school          1 space per 12 classroom seats
High school                1 space for every 10 seats in each classroom
Library                    1 space per 400 square feet of reading area, plus 1
                           for every 2 employees
Preschool, daycare or      1 space per 2 employees, plus a driveway designed
kindergarten               for the drop off and pick up of children
 
   C.   Commercial Uses: One loading space per twenty five thousand (25,000)
square feet (or fraction thereof) of floor area, plus one parking space for
every two (2) employees and public parking as follows:
Bank or office, including medical/dental            1 space per 300 square feet
Billiards/pool                                      1 space per table
Bowling alley                                       5 spaces per alley
Eating and drinking                                 1 space per 100 square feet
establishments
Hospital, convalescent, nursing home, or other care 1 space per 2 beds
or assisted living facility
Motel/hotel                                         1 space per guest unit
Repair garages and services                         2 spaces per repair bay
Retail store                                        1 space per 400 square feet
Service or repair or retail handling                1 space per 600 square feet
of bulky merchandise (e.g., furniture)
Theater                                             1 space for every 4 seats
 
   D.   Industrial Uses: One loading/delivery space per forty thousand (40,000)
square feet (or fraction thereof) of floor area, plus parking as follows:
 
Manufacturing        1 space per each 2 employees on the largest shift
Warehouse or storage 1 space per 5,000 square feet of gross leasable area
 
   E.   Unspecified Uses: Any use not specifically listed shall provide the
requirements deemed equivalent or appropriate by the planning commission.
   F.   Bicycle Parking Spaces:
      1.   Multi-Family Residences: Every residential use of four (4) or more
dwelling units shall provide at least one sheltered bicycle parking space for
every two (2) units. Sheltered bicycle parking spaces may be located within a
garage, storage shed, basement, utility room, or similar area. In those
instances in which the residential complex has no garage or other easily
accessible storage unit, the required bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered
under an eave, overhang, an independent structure, or similar cover.
      2.   Schools: Elementary and middle schools, both public and private,
shall provide one bicycle parking space for every ten (10) students and
employees. High schools shall provide one bicycle parking space for every five
(5) students and independent structure, or similar structure.
      3.   Downtown Areas: In downtown areas with on street parking, bicycle
parking for customers shall be provided along the street at a rate of at least
one space per use. Spaces may be clustered to serve up to six (6) bicycles; at
least one cluster per block shall be provided. Bicycle parking spaces shall be
located in front of the stores along the street, either on the sidewalks in
specially constructed areas such as pedestrian curb extensions. Bicycle parking
shall not interfere with pedestrian passage, leaving a clear area of at least
five feet (5'). Customer spaces are not required to be sheltered. (Ord. 652, 6-
4-2008)
9-11-8: PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION:
   A.   Site Layout And Design: To ensure safe, direct, and convenient
pedestrian circulation, all developments, except single-family detached housing
(i.e., on individual lots), shall, if deemed appropriate by the city, provide a
continuous pedestrian system.
   B.   Continuous Walkway System: The pedestrian walkway system shall, if
deemed appropriate by the city, extend throughout the development site and
connect to all future phases of development, and to existing or planned off
site adjacent trails, public parks, and open space areas to the greatest extent
practicable.
   C.   Safe, Direct, And Convenient: Walkways within developments shall, if
deemed appropriate by the city, provide safe, reasonably direct, and convenient
connections between primary building entrances and all adjacent streets, based
on the following definitions:
      1.   Reasonably Direct: A route that does not deviate unnecessarily from
a straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of out of
direction travel for likely users.
      2.   Safe And Convenient: Routes that are reasonably free from hazards
and provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destinations.
      3.   Nonresidential Buildings: "Primary entrance" for commercial,
industrial, public, and institutional buildings is the main public entrance to
the building. In the case where no public entrance exists, street connections
shall be provided to the main employee entrance.
      4.   Residential Buildings: "Primary entrance" for residential buildings
is the front door (i.e., facing the street). For multi- family buildings in
which each unit does not have its own exterior entrance, the "primary entrance"
may be a lobby, courtyard, or breezeway which serves as a common entrance for
more than one dwelling.
   D.   Pedestrian Route: When proposed commercial, office, institutional or
multi-family uses are located on a site within one-fourth (1/4) mile of an
existing or planned transit stop, the proposed pedestrian circulation system
must demonstrate a safe and convenient pedestrian route from building entrances
to the transit stop or to a public right of way that provides access to the
transit stop. (Ord. 658, 11-4-2009)
CHAPTER 12
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Permit Process
9-12-4: Variance From Regulations
9-12-5: General Regulations
9-12-6: Signs In Residential Zones
9-12-7: Signs In Commercial And Industrial Zones
9-12-8: Nonconforming Signs
9-12-9: Right Of Way Signs
9-12-10: Abandoned Signs Or Signs In Disrepair
9-12-11: Penalty
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidelines for sign design, location,
material, type, size, and manner of display. All signs must comply with the
provisions of this chapter; however, only certain types of signs or sign
alterations require a permit. These regulations are intended to allow such
signs that will not by their size, location, design, construction or manner of
display endanger the public safety of individuals, obstruct vision necessary
for traffic safety, and maintain the city's aesthetic environment. (Ord. 639,
6-1-2005)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AWNING: A shelter projecting from, and supported by, the exterior wall of a
building on a supporting framework.
BANNER: A temporary paper, cloth, or plastic sign advertising a single event of
civic or business nature.
BILLBOARD: A sign or structure subject to the provisions of the Oregon motorist
information act of 1971 and erected for the purpose of leasing advertising
space to promote an interest other than that of an individual, business,
product or service available on the premises on which the billboard is located.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear frontage of a building measured along a street or
alley between two (2) lines projecting perpendicular from the street to the
corners of the building.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: Any information sign, which identifies the architect,
engineers, contractors, and other individuals or firms involved with the
construction of a building, or announcing the character of the building or
enterprise, which is erected during the building construction period.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: An on premises sign designed to be read from within the
premises and used only to identify and locate an office, motor vehicle
entrances or exits, telephone or similar place, service or route.
ELECTRONIC CHANGING SIGN: An electronic sign upon which the entire copy or
message may appear or change from time to time upon a lamp bank, such as time
and temperature displays, which by its nature and intensity is not a flashing
sign.
FLAG: Any fabric banner usually supported on one edge containing distinctive
colors, patterns, or symbols.
FLASHING SIGN: Any sign which contains or is illuminated by a light source,
which produces a flash and darkness on an alternating basis, which results in a
pulsating effect designed primarily to attract attention.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A single or multiple faced sign eight (8) or more feet above
grade, supported by one or more uprights in the ground and detached from any
building or structure.
GRADE: The relative finished ground level within twenty feet (20') of the sign.
GROUND SIGN: A sign which is mounted on the ground and supported by one or more
uprights, poles or braces in or upon the ground.
HEIGHT OR HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance from the average grade within
twenty feet (20') of the structure to the highest point of a sign or any
vertical projection thereof, including its supporting columns.
INCIDENTAL SIGN: Small signs, less than two (2) square feet in surface area, of
a noncommercial nature, intended primarily for the convenience of the public.
Included are signs designating restrooms, address numbers, hours of operation,
entrances to buildings, directions, help wanted, public telephone, etc. Also
included in this group of signs are those designed to guide vehicular traffic
to an area or place on the premises of a business, building or development by
means of a directory designating names and addresses only.
LIGHTING: Any sign illuminated with either an internal or indirect light
source.
MOVING SIGN: Any sign which produces apparent motion of the visual image,
including, but not limited to, illusion of moving objects, moving patterns or
bands of light, expanding or contracting shapes, rotation or any similar effect
of animation which is designed or operated in a manner primarily to attract
attention.
POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign advertising a candidate or candidates for
public elective office, or a political party, or a sign urging a particular
vote on a public issue decided by ballot.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not meeting the anchorage requirements of the uniform
sign code and is capable of being transported from one place to another.
PROJECTING SIGN: A single or multiple faced sign which is designed and
constructed to be mounted to the wall of a building and which will extend more
than twelve inches (12") from the wall.
PROPERTY LINE: The line denoting the limits of legal ownership of property.
READER BOARD OR TRACK BOARD SIGN: A portable sign on which the letters are
readily replaceable.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof or on top
of or above the parapet of a building, including a sign affixed to any
equipment attached to the building.
SANDWICH BOARD OR A-FRAME: A double faced sign hinged or connected at the top,
which is spread for stabilization and set upon the ground.
SIGN: An object or device situated outdoors or indoors which is used to
advertise, or identify an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location that can be viewed from a public street
right of way, or another property.
SIGN AREA: The surface contained within a single continuous perimeter, which
encloses the entire sign cabinet, but excluding any support of framing
structure that does not convey a message. Where signs are of a three-
dimensional, round, or other solid shape, the largest cross section viewed as a
flat projection shall be used for the purpose of determining the sign area.
Signs visible from more than one direction or without clearly defined sign
faces shall be considered as having two (2) faces and each face calculated in
the total allowable area.
STREET FRONTAGE: Street(s), alley(s), or public right(s) of way parallel to the
property line used to compute the area of sign(s) intended to be located in
such a manner as to have primary exposure on that street or right of way.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign, banner, pendant, or advertising display that is
portable and not permanently mounted to a structure.
VISION CLEARANCE AREA: A triangular area on a lot at the intersection of two
(2) public rights of way, a street and a railroad, or point of vehicular access
and a public right of way, two (2) sides of which are lines measured from the
corner intersection to a distance of twenty feet (20'). The third side of a
triangle is a line across the corner of the lot connecting the lines of the
other two (2) sides. The vision clearance area should contain no signs higher
than three feet (3') or lower than eight feet (8') measured from the grade of
the street centerline, though a single pole having a diameter of eighteen
inches (18") or less is permitted.
WALL SIGN: A single face sign painted or otherwise affixed to the face of a
building and extending not more than twelve inches (12") from the wall to which
it is attached.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass and
is visible from the exterior of the window. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
9-12-3: PERMIT PROCESS:
   A.   A permit for a new sign or an alteration of an existing sign shall be
required from the city only when it is either placed in or over the public
right of way or when an inspection will be required for building code
compliance.
   B.   A sign permit application that does not require planning commission
approval shall be forwarded by the city to Columbia County for processing
within twenty one (21) days after receipt of a complete application.
   C.   A sign permit application that requires planning commission approval
shall be scheduled for a public hearing within thirty (30) days after receipt
of a complete application requesting a variance. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
9-12-4: VARIANCE FROM REGULATIONS:
Following a public hearing, the planning commission may authorize variances
from the requirements of this chapter. In granting a variance, the planning
commission may attach conditions that it deems necessary to protect the
interest of the surrounding property owners and otherwise achieve the purpose
of this title. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   A.   The application for a variance shall be filed by the business owner or
authorized agent, using the city forms prescribed for that purpose. The
planning commission may request additional drawings and/or information. The fee
for an application requesting a variance from this chapter shall be the same
fee as charged for a sign permit. The application shall not be considered
complete until the application fee is paid and the following information is
provided:
      1.   A description of the variance being requested.
      2.   A plan drawn showing the dimensions and arrangement of the proposed
sign placement.
   B.   The planning commission may grant a variance only when the applicant
has shown that all of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not violate any other provision of
this title, and will not create any significant obstacle to implementation of
the plan or zoning regulations.
      2.   The granting of the variance: a) will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health or welfare or be injurious to the property, adjoining
properties, neighborhood or the community; b) will not change the character of
the neighborhood or reduce the value of nearby property; and c) will not impose
any significant cost upon the city or nearby property owners.
      3.   The granting of the variance will not result in a use that is
otherwise prohibited in the zoning district in which the variance is being
requested. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
   C.   The planning commission may attach conditions to an approved variance
as it deems necessary. The planning commission may require guarantees and
evidence that the conditions are being met. Such conditions may include, but
are not limited to, the following: limitations on the number of signs and
locations; sight obstruction compliance; or ongoing maintenance. (Ord. 639, 6-
1-2005; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-12-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All signs, including temporary and permanent signs, shall be maintained
in a proper state of safety, cleanliness, and good repair, including
illumination.
   B.   All signs shall comply with the following requirements and those
specified by the zoning district:
      1.   Construction shall satisfy the prevailing applicable requirements of
the uniform building code, including all specialty codes.
      2.   Except for exempt signs, all signs shall be securely attached to a
building or the ground.
      3.   All signs, including exempt signs, shall conform to all vision
clearance requirements.
      4.   All signs, including exempt signs, together with their supports,
braces, and guides shall be maintained in a safe and secure manner.
   C.   The following signs and devices shall not be subject to the provisions
of this chapter:
      1.   Directional, warning or information signs or structures required or
authorized by law, or by federal, state, county or city authority.
      2.   Memorial tablets, cornerstones, historical site plaques or similar
plaques not exceeding six (6) square feet.
      3.   Residential identification signs not exceeding two (2) square feet.
      4.   A sign identifying the name of the occupant or owner provided the
sign is not larger than one square foot, is nonilluminated and is either
attached to the structure or located within the front setback.
      5.   Structures intended for a separate use such as phone booths,
Goodwill containers, etc.
      6.   Official and legal notices issued by any court, public body, person
or officer in performance of a public duty or in giving any legal notice.
      7.   Official flags of the United States of America, counties,
municipalities, official flags of foreign nations, and flags of internationally
and nationally recognized organizations.
      8.   On premises signs not readable from the public right of way, i.e.,
menu boards, etc.
      9.   Small nonilluminated information signs such as "open/closed", credit
card, rating or professional association, and signs of similar nature.
      10.   Temporary political signs, provided such signs shall not exceed
four (4) square feet in area in a residential zone or thirty two (32) square
feet in commercial/industrial zones or be posted more than forty five (45) days
before the election to which they relate and are removed within fifteen (15)
days following the election.
      11.   Temporary nonilluminated residential real estate signs (no more
than 1 sign per street frontage for each parcel) not exceeding four (4) square
feet, provided said signs are removed within fifteen (15) days after sale,
lease, or rental of the property.
      12.   Temporary nonilluminated commercial real estate signs (no more than
1 sign per street frontage for each parcel) not exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet in commercial or industrial districts, provided said signs are
removed within fifteen (15) days after sale, lease, or rental of the property.
      13.   Temporary nonilluminated construction and subdivision signs not
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in area, which are removed when
construction is completed.
      14.   Temporary paper signs that serve as public notice when removed
promptly after such meeting is held.
      15.   Temporary paper signs that serve as public notice issued by any
court, public body, person or officer in performance of a public duty or in
giving any legal notice.
      16.   Temporary paper or painted signs placed on the interior windows of
a nonresidential building, when such signs do not obscure more than fifty
percent (50%) of the window area.
      17.   Temporary banners, pennants and flags advertising civic events,
subject to removal within three (3) days after said event concludes.
   D.   The following signs are generally prohibited:
      1.   Signs attached to utility, streetlight, or traffic control standard
poles or otherwise located in the public right of way without a permit.
      2.   Signs in a dilapidated or hazardous condition.
      3.   Signs on doors, windows, or fire escapes that restrict free ingress
or egress.
      4.   Signs that resemble an official traffic sign or signal which could
cause confusion with any official sign, or which obstruct the visibility of any
traffic sign or signal.
      5.   Swinging signs.
      6.   Billboards and any off premises sign.
      7.   Signs that contain flashing elements.
      8.   Signs that contain moving, rotating or otherwise animated parts, but
do not include digital displays.
      9.   Signs that contain luminescent, fluorescent or phosphorescent paint
or paper. This includes paints referred to as Day-Glo, hot or neon.
      10.   Signs placed so that the sign extends above a flat roof or the
ridge of a pitched roof.
      11.   A public address system, sound system, or similar device, either
permanently or temporarily installed exterior to a building, whether or not it
is used to advertise a business or product, where the sound is audible from a
public street or adjacent property.
   E.   Temporary signage allowed and associated regulations:
      1.   Signs that are a digital display, but not more than one per
business.
      2.   Devices or signs such as flags, pennants, streamers, spinners,
windsocks or kites, or similar devices that move as a result of air pressure.
      3.   Sandwich board, reader board, track board, A-frame sign or otherwise
portable sign, but not more than one per business. Portable signage must
contain a message.
      4.   Temporary signs shall be attached in a manner that prevents the sign
from being moved or blown from its location.
      5.   Temporary signs shall be nonilluminated and not exceed thirty two
(32) square feet.
   F.   All freestanding signs shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   A freestanding sign shall be placed behind the property line and no
closer than ten feet (10') to any adjacent private property line.
      2.   Freestanding signs may project over the public property line,
provided they conform to the standards established for projecting signs.
   G.   All ground signs shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   The bottom of the sign shall not be lower than two feet (2') from
the ground.
      2.   The height shall not be more than eight feet (8') from the ground.
      3.   A maximum size of twenty four (24) square feet if placed within
twenty feet (20') of the public right of way.
      4.   A maximum size of forty eight (48) square feet if placed beyond
twenty feet (20') of the public right of way, but not within twenty feet (20')
of any adjacent private property boundary.
   H.   All projecting signs shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   No projecting sign shall extend above the highest structural
component of the building to which it is attached.
      2.   Signs over the public right of way, including freestanding signs,
shall conform to the following standards:
 
Clearance        Maximum Projection
Less than 8 feet Not permitted
8 feet           1 foot
9 feet and above 2 feet for every foot above 8 feet in height but no more than
                 9 feet
 
      3.   No projecting sign shall be placed within a vehicular right of way.
   I.   All wall signs shall conform to the following provisions:
      1.   Wall signs placed flat against a building which supports it, not
extending more than twelve inches (12") from the wall, and not exceeding ten
percent (10%) of the gross area of the face of the building to which the sign
is attached.
      2.   Wall signs shall not extend above the height of the wall to which
they are attached.
   J.   Any sign that is unlawful may be abated by the city according to the
following:
      1.   The city may order the removal of any sign erected or maintained in
violation of this chapter. It shall give ten (10) days' notice in writing to
the owner of the sign, structure, or property on which the sign is located, to
remove the sign or bring it into compliance.
      2.   The city may remove a sign immediately and without notice, at its
discretion, if condition of the sign presents an immediate threat to the safety
of the public. Neither the city nor any of its agents shall be liable for any
damage to any sign that is summarily abated. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
9-12-6: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
   A.   Neighborhood identification: One nameplate or identification sign with
a maximum of two (2) faces shall be permitted at each entry point to a
subdivision. The sign shall not exceed an area of twenty four (24) square feet
per sign, nor five feet (5') in height above grade.
   B.   Multiple-family residential and mobile home parks: Where otherwise
permitted, one sign of not more than twenty four (24) square feet shall be
permitted. A freestanding sign shall be mounted in a planter or landscaped area
and shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
9-12-7: SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
A combination of signage consisting of temporary, wall, freestanding, ground,
projecting, and window signs are allowed on a per structure basis in commercial
and industrial zones in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
regulations in this section.
   A.   Quantity And Size: The quantity and size of allowable areas of signs
per structure shall be as follows:
      1.   One ground or freestanding sign.
      2.   A total sign area of one and one-half (1.5) square feet for each
linear foot of building frontage or one square foot for each linear foot of lot
frontage, whichever results in the larger sign area.
      3.   Freestanding or projecting signs bordering Highway 30 shall be
limited to one hundred fifty (150) square feet per side. Such signs shall not
exceed twenty four feet (24') in height from grade to the highest element.
      4.   Freestanding or projecting signs not bordering Highway 30 shall be
limited to forty eight (48) square feet per side. Such signs shall not exceed
twenty four feet (24') in height from grade to the highest element.
   B.   Businesses Within Shopping Centers: Within shopping centers, each
individual business shall be allowed a total sign area as calculated in
accordance with subsection A2 of this section.
   C.   Shopping Centers: In addition to the sign area allowed for individual
businesses, shopping centers with more than one hundred thousand (100,000)
square feet of floor area shall be allowed one double faced sign along each
street right of way. Such signs shall neither extend beyond the property line
nor be placed in the right of way and shall be used solely to identify the
shopping center, shopping area, or business or activities conducted therein.
These signs shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet per face and shall
not exceed thirty feet (30') in height from the grade to the highest element of
the sign.
   D.   Awning Signage: The maximum sign area shall not exceed thirty percent
(30%) of the awning area. The sign shall be integrated into the design and
material of the awning on which it is located. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
9-12-8: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Existing Signs: An existing on premises sign on private property that
does not conform to the size or height regulations of this chapter may be
continued as allowed by this section.
   B.   Changes Or Alterations: A nonconforming sign shall not be changed,
expanded or altered in any manner, which would increase the degree of its
nonconformity, or be structurally altered to prolong its useful life, or be
moved in whole or in part to any other location where it would remain
nonconforming.
   C.   Termination Of Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Change In Business: Nonconforming signs, which advertise a business
no longer conducted, shall be terminated by the city within thirty (30) days
after closure of the business.
      2.   Damage Or Destruction: Any nonconforming sign damaged or destroyed,
by any means, to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost,
shall be terminated and shall not be restored. For the purpose of this
regulation, the value of any sign shall be the estimated cost to replace the
sign, as determined by the city.
      3.   Termination: Termination shall consist of either removal of the sign
or alteration of the sign to eliminate all nonconforming features. (Ord. 639,
6-1-2005)
9-12-9: RIGHT OF WAY SIGNS:
   A.   Defined: A right of way sign includes every type of decoration, sign,
or banner displayed over or upon the public rights of way, including all
temporary signage or signs attached to any other structure.
   B.   Permit Required:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation or association shall display or cause
to be displayed over or upon the city streets of the city any sign without
having first obtained a permit from the city.
      2.   A request for a right of way sign shall show the approximate
location of the proposed installation(s), height above street or sidewalk,
location on a pole or building, the approximate size of sign to be displayed,
whether the sign is to be attached to utility poles, buildings or other
structures, and the dates of installation and removal.
      3.   The city may establish additional requirements on the permit
relating to use of the public right of way or to ensure public safety.
   C.   Insurance Requirement: The city may require that the permittee obtain a
certificate of insurance naming the city and affected property owner(s) as
additional insureds at an amount sufficient to the city for protection from
injury or property damage relating to the placement, maintenance or removal of
the sign.
   D.   Installation/Removal Requirements:
      1.   Right of way signs other than those installed by utility company
crews are to be installed from a mechanical hoist or OSHA approved procedures
and equipment, so that the individuals making installations do not have to
climb utility poles.
      2.   The holder of a permit for a right of way sign shall be responsible
for the maintenance of the sign in a safe and attractive condition at all times
and for its safe and prompt removal upon the expiration of the permit
authorized or in the event the sign may become a hazard or unsightly upon the
public right of way at any time.
      3.   The duration of a permit for a right of way sign shall not exceed
sixty (60) days, unless the city approves an extension.
      4.   The city shall have the right to remove or cause to be removed any
right of way sign that is a hazard without notice to the permittee. (Ord. 639,
6-1-2005)
9-12-10: ABANDONED SIGNS OR SIGNS IN DISREPAIR:
The city shall notify the owner of the real property where a sign has been
abandoned or allowed to fall into disrepair, and shall require reasonable
repair, replacement or removal within thirty (30) days. If compliance does not
occur, the city may cause the removal of such signs and collect from the owner
of the real property from which it was removed any or all expenses incurred by
the city in the enforcement of this provision. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
9-12-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as a principal, agent, employee or
otherwise violating or upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per offense. Such person, firm or
corporation may be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during any portion of which any violation of this chapter is committed or
continued by such a person, firm or corporation and shall be punishable as
herein provided. (Ord. 639, 6-1-2005)
CHAPTER 13
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Accessory Uses And Structures
9-13-2: Vision Clearance
9-13-3: Special Right Of Way Setbacks
9-13-4: Home Occupation Permit
9-13-5: State And Federal Regulations
9-13-6: Wetland Development
9-13-7: Hazard Areas
9-13-8: Communication Towers
9-13-9: Transportation Improvements
9-13-1: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
Where a lot is devoted to a permitted principal use, customary accessory uses
and structures are permitted, except as prohibited specifically or by necessary
implication in this title or any other title or building code adopted by the
city. The following special rules are applicable:
   A.   Size: Maximum size shall not be more than seven hundred (700) square
feet and one story in height.
   B.   Location: Location of a separate structure shall not be less than five
feet (5') from any other building.
   C.   Residential Garage: A residential garage, defined as "garage,
residential" in section
9-2-2 of this title and meeting the provisions of subsections A and B of this
section, is considered an "accessory building" for the purposes of this title.
   D.   Residential Shop: A residential shop, defined as "shop, residential" in
section
9-2-2 of this title and meeting the provisions of subsections A and B of this
section, is considered an "accessory building" for the purposes of this title.
(Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-13-2: VISION CLEARANCE 1 :
On all corner lots, the sight triangle (described in appendix A, on file at
city hall) shall be maintained in a manner that allows unimpeded views between
three feet (3') and ten feet (10') above the centerline grades of the
intersecting streets. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-1-8 of this code.
9-13-3: SPECIAL RIGHT OF WAY SETBACKS:
The minimum front yard or side yard setbacks as required by this title shall be
increased where such setback abuts a street having insufficient right of way to
serve the area. The necessary setback shall be increased by the amount needed
to reserve the standard right of way for abutting streets. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-13-4: HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Allowed: A home occupation permit is allowed with a business
license in any residential zone if it meets the approval standards and
requirements of this section.
   B.   Application Requirements; Fee; Protests; Denial: Application and the
required fee as set by resolution of the council shall be made to the city. All
properties within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the proposed home occupation
shall be notified in writing and shall have ten (10) days from receipt of
notification to comment. The city manager is authorized to issue a permit if no
protests are received that address any of the conditions listed under
subsection D of this section. If one or more protests are received that address
any of the conditions listed under subsection D of this section, then the
application shall be denied. The application fee will not be refunded if the
application is denied.
   C.   Appeal To Planning Commission; Fee; Hearing: Any such denial may be
appealed to the planning commission along with any required fee as set by
council resolution. The planning commission shall review the home occupation
permit application after a public hearing and may approve or deny the
application with conditions. The application fee will not be refunded if the
application is denied.
   D.   Conditions: The following conditions shall apply to each home
occupation unless otherwise approved by the planning commission:
      1.   The home occupation activity takes place solely within a residential
structure.
      2.   The residential character, use and appearance of the structure is
maintained.
      3.   Employees in the residence shall only be the immediate members of
the household.
      4.   The home occupation will not be unreasonably detrimental to an
adjacent property owner or the neighborhood and will not impose any significant
cost upon any adjacent property owner.
      5.   Up to two (2) clients or customers per day are allowed at the
residence.
      6.   Storage of any business related materials or supplies shall not be
visible from outside the residence.
      7.   There shall be no display, advertising, banners, etc., indicating
the residence is used for any purpose other than a dwelling, other than signage
that may be allowed under chapter 12 of this title.
   E.   Multiple Permits: More than one home occupation permit may be approved
on the same premises, provided all requirements of this section are met as if
there were only one home occupation on the premises, and provided that a
business license is obtained for each home occupation. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-13-5: STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
All development shall conform with:
   A.   Noise: The noise level standards established by the state department of
environmental quality.
   B.   Air Quality: The air quality standards established by the state
department of environmental quality.
   C.   Water: The clean water standards established by the state department of
environmental quality and the federal environmental protection agency.
   D.   Wetlands: The provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 196.600 to 196.665
and 196.800 to 196.990, regarding the conservation and maintenance of wetlands.
(Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-13-6: WETLAND DEVELOPMENT 1 :
This section provides procedures for wetland development in conformance with
Oregon Revised Statutes 227.350.
   A.   Acceptable Activities: After the department of state lands has provided
the city with a copy of the applicable portions of the statewide wetland
inventory, the city shall provide notice to the department, the applicant and
the owner of record, within five (5) working days of the acceptance of any
complete application for the following activities that are wholly or partially
within areas identified as wetlands on the statewide wetlands inventory:
      1.   Subdivisions;
      2.   Building permits for new structures;
      3.   Other development permits and approvals that allow physical
alteration of the land involving excavation and grading, including permits for
removal or fill, or both, or development in floodplains and floodways; and
      4.   Conditional use permits and variances that involve physical
alterations to the land or construction of new structures.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section do not apply
if a permit from the department of state lands has been issued for the proposed
activity.
   C.   Notice Statements: Approval of any activity described in subsection A
of this section shall include one of the following notice statements:
      1.   Issuance of a permit under Oregon Revised Statutes 196.600 to
196.665 and 196.800 to 196.900 by the department of state lands required for
the project before any physical alteration takes place within the wetlands;
      2.   Notice from the department of state lands that no permit is
required; or
      3.   Notice from the department of state lands that no permit is required
until specific proposals to remove, fill or alter the wetlands are submitted.
   D.   Response Time Limit: If the department of state lands fails to respond
to any notice provided under subsection A of this section within thirty (30)
days of notice, the city approval may be issued with written notice to the
applicant and the owner of record that the proposed action may require state or
federal permits.
   E.   Local Approval; Need For Permits: The city may issue local approval for
the parcels identified as or including wetlands on the statewide wetlands
inventory upon providing to the applicant, and the owner of record of the
affected parcel, a written notice of the possible presence of wetlands and the
potential need for state and federal permits and providing the department of
state lands with a copy of the notification of:
      1.   Comprehensive plan map or zoning map amendments for specific
properties; and
      2.   Major and minor partitions.
   F.   Notice Of Authorized Activities: Notice of activities authorized within
an approved wetland conservation plan shall be provided to the department of
state lands within five (5) days following the local approval.
   G.   Failure By City To Provide Notice: Failure by the city to provide
notice as required in this section will not invalidate city approval. (Ord.
652, 6-4-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9, article C of this title.
9-13-7: HAZARD AREAS:
Vegetative cover shall be maintained in slide hazard areas and on steep slopes
(greater than 20 percent) to the maximum extent practical. The intent of this
provision is to maintain the stability of these areas and reduce erosion
problems on these sites. If more than fifty percent (50%) of the trees and/or
vegetative cover in such a site is removed during one year, that area shall be
seeded with grass, replanted with trees or vegetative cover reestablished in
some other fashion within six (6) months' time in order to preserve the
stability of the area. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-13-8: COMMUNICATION TOWERS:
These structures may be permitted as a conditional use in various zones in the
city.
   A.   Application For Permit; Requirements: The application for a permit for
these structures shall contain the following requirements:
      1.   At the time of construction, the tower will not be allowed between
any property and the primary view from a home or business (i.e., dike land,
mountains, waterways).
      2.   The tower will only be allowed on property that is larger than the
minimum size lot in the zone.
      3.   The space designed for the tower must additionally provide at least
the minimum size lot for any residential building remaining on the property.
      4.   Photo simulations are required of any proposed tower from the four
(4) cardinal compass points and/or abutting rights of way, whichever provides
the most accurate representation of the proposal from a variety of vantage
points.
      5.   The city may require information regarding electromagnetic impacts
if the city manager deems it appropriate.
      6.   Information as to why this proposal is necessary as opposed to
collocating it with another existing facility.
      7.   Information provided by a qualified engineer as to potential
interference with other communications, communication devices and/or systems.
Assurances must be given that no negative impacts will be present if a tower is
constructed and used.
   B.   Lighting: Prior to approval of a conditional use permit and its
conditions, the designation of FAA required lighting shall be obtained and
provided to the city. It is the intent of the city to not allow any structure
with overly bright strobe type lighting.
   C.   Conditions Of Permit: The permit for these structures shall contain at
least the following conditions:
      1.   Appropriate screening, landscaping, parking, setbacks and security
shall be provided. If part or all of screening is from abutting trees and/or
other off site plant life, a provision shall be made to require on site
plantings or guarantees of maintenance of off site screening to remain or be
replaced in kind (size and species).
      2.   Appropriate painting of tower and facilities, to blend in with
screening and/or background shall be required.
      3.   Lighting shall be deflected away from adjoining property and street
rights of way. Any FAA required lighting shall not shine into residential homes
nor interfere with traffic on public streets.
      4.   Changing requirements by FAA or other state or federal agencies
regarding a change or modification of height or lighting standards requires the
applicant to submit the change for additional conditions by the city.
      5.   The applicant must return the site to a natural condition after a
six (6) month abandonment of the tower and attached antenna facilities. (Ord.
652, 6-4-2008)
9-13-9: TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Uses Permitted Outright: Except where otherwise specifically regulated
by the ordinance, the following transportation improvements are permitted
outright in all zones:
      1.   Normal operation, maintenance, repair, and preservation activities
of existing transportation facilities.
      2.   Installation of culverts, pathways, medians, fencing, guardrails,
lighting, and similar types of improvements within existing right of way.
      3.   Projects specifically identified in the transportation system plan
as not requiring further land use regulation.
      4.   Landscaping as part of a transportation facility.
      5.   Emergency measures necessary for safety and protection of property.
      6.   Acquisition of right of way for public roads, highways, and other
transportation improvements designated in the transportation system plan.
      7.   Construction of street or road as part of an approved subdivision or
land partition approved consistent with the applicable land division ordinance.
   B.   Conditional Uses: The following transportation improvements are
permitted when approved as conditional uses according to the criteria contained
in this section:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction, or widening of highways, roads,
bridges or other transportation projects that are: a) not improvements
designated in the transportation system plan or b) not designed and constructed
as part of a subdivision or planned development subject to site plan and/or
conditional use review, shall comply with the transportation system plan and
applicable standards, and shall address the following criteria. For state
projects that require an environmental impact statement (EIS) or EA
(environmental assessment), the draft of EIS or EA shall be reviewed and used
as the basis for findings to comply with the following criteria:
         a.   The project is designed to be compatible with existing land use
social patterns, including noise generation, safety and zoning.
         b.   The project is designed to minimize avoidable environmental
impacts to identified wetlands, wildlife habitat, air and water quality,
cultural resources, and scenic qualities.
         c.   The project preserves or improves the safety and function of the
facility through access management, traffic calming or other design features.
         d.   Project includes provision for bicycle and pedestrian circulation
as consistent with the comprehensive plan and other requirements of this title.
      2.   If review under this section indicates that the use or activity is
inconsistent with the transportation system plan, the procedure for plan
amendment shall be undertaken prior to or in conjunction with the conditional
permit review.
      3.   Authorization of a conditional use shall be void after a period
specific by the city as reasonable and necessary based on season, right of way
acquisition, and other pertinent factors. This period shall not exceed three
(3) years. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
ARTICLE A. MODULAR HOUSING AND MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS
SECTION:
9-13A-1: Modular Housing
9-13A-2: Manufactured Dwellings
9-13A-3: Siting Standards For Manufactured Dwelling Parks
9-13A-4: Siting Standards For Manufactured Dwelling Subdivisions
9-13A-5: Placement Standards Outside Parks Or Subdivisions
9-13A-6: Nonconforming Manufactured Dwellings
9-13A-1: MODULAR HOUSING:
   A.   Siting: (Rep. by Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   B.   Conformance With Regulations: Modular housing shall meet the same
regulations as required for manufactured dwellings that are stated in this
article. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-13A-2: MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS:
   A.   Within Park Or Subdivision: "Manufactured dwellings", as defined in
subsection C of said defined term in section
9-2-2 of this title, may be sited in a manufactured dwelling park or
subdivision.
   B.   Lots Outside Park Or Subdivision: "Manufactured dwellings", as defined
in subsection C of said defined term in section
9-2-2 of this title, may be sited on individual lots outside of a manufactured
dwelling park or subdivision, in any residential zone, in conformance with
section
9-13A-5 of this article. (1996 Code § 17.72.070; amd. 2004 Code)
9-13A-3: SITING STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARKS:
   A.   Compliance With State Standards: All manufactured dwelling parks shall
meet or exceed the state standards listed in Oregon Revised Statutes chapter
446 and Oregon administrative rules 814, division 28.
   B.   Application And Review Procedures: The procedures for application and
review of a proposed manufactured dwelling park are described in sections
9-15-4 through
9-15-7 of this title.
   C.   Required Information: In addition, the following information shall
accompany the tentative plan:
      1.   Proposed circulation patterns, parks, playgrounds, open spaces and
existing natural features that will be maintained.
      2.   Proposed layout indicating that each dwelling, and any attached
accessory structures, will be located not less than:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') from any other dwelling or attached accessory
structure;
         b.   Ten feet (10') from any detached accessory building, or other
building located within the proposed park; and
         c.   Five feet (5') from the proposed park property line. (1996 Code §
17.72.075)
9-13A-4: SITING STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED DWELLING SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With State Standards: All manufactured dwelling subdivisions
shall meet or exceed the state standards listed in Oregon Revised Statutes
chapter 446, and Oregon administrative rules 814, division 28. (1996 Code §
17.72.080; amd. Ord. 599, 11-3-1999)
   B.   Application And Review Procedures: The procedures for application and
review of a proposed manufactured dwelling subdivision are described in
sections
9-15-4 through
9-15-7 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.72.080)
9-13A-5: PLACEMENT STANDARDS OUTSIDE PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS:
In addition to the standards of the zone in which the manufactured dwelling is
to be located, the following placement standards must be satisfied:
   A.   Multisectional: The manufactured dwelling must be multisectional (a
"tip out" is not considered to be multisectional) and enclose at least eight
hundred (800) square feet.
   B.   Foundation: The dwelling must be located not more than twelve inches
(12") above grade on an excavated and backfilled foundation which is enclosed
at the perimeter. (1996 Code § 17.72.085)
   C.   Pitched Roof, Slope: The dwelling must have a pitched roof, with a
slope of at least three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in
width.
   D.   Siding: Exterior siding must be of wood, hardboard or aluminum (vinyl
covered or painted but not exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint)
comparable in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior siding
commonly used in standard residential construction.
   E.   Roof Finish: The roof must be finished with materials used for standard
residential construction. (1996 Code § 17.72.085; amd. 2004 Code)
   F.   Exterior Thermal Envelope: The exterior thermal envelope must meet
performance standards equivalent to those required for single-family dwellings
under the state building code.
   G.   Garage Or Carport: The manufactured dwelling must have either a garage
or a carport. (1996 Code § 17.72.085)
9-13A-6: NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS:
A "manufactured dwelling" that does not meet the definition of said term,
subsection C, in section
9-2-2 of this title and the provisions of section
9-13A-5 of this article and is currently sited on an individual lot outside a
manufactured dwelling park or subdivision shall be considered a nonconforming
manufactured dwelling. The dwelling shall be allowed to remain at its current
site until such time as: (1996 Code § 17.72.090)
   A.   The dwelling is substantially damaged due to fire, windstorm or earth
movement; (Ord. 596, 11-3-1999)
   B.   The primary use of the dwelling changes from residential to
nonresidential; or
   C.   The dwelling becomes structurally unsafe, a fire hazard, dilapidated or
abandoned for a period of more than one year. (1996 Code § 17.72.090)
ARTICLE B. RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
9-13B-1: Purpose
9-13B-2: Definitions
9-13B-3: Use Restrictions
9-13B-4: Minimum Design Standards
9-13B-5: General Requirements
9-13B-6: Performance Bond
9-13B-7: Appearance And Compliance
9-13B-8: Procedure For Tentative Plan Review
9-13B-9: Procedure For Final Plan Review
9-13B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to ensure that recreation vehicle parks are
located, developed, and occupied in accordance with standards and regulations
that will protect the health, safety, general welfare, and convenience of the
occupants of such parks and the residents of the city. (Ord. 631, 3-3-2004)
9-13B-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context or subject matter requires
otherwise, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the below
indicated meanings:
PARK MODEL: A structure or vehicle that is distinguished from standard
recreational vehicles by the lack of self-contained holding tanks. A "park
model" is not an RV.
RV PAD: A concrete surface area provided as the parking location for the RV
within a recreation vehicle park.
RECREATION VEHICLE, OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, OR RV: A vehicle or portable
structure built and designed to be used for temporary occupancy. Such RVs shall
contain plumbing, heating, and electrical systems that are operated with or
without connection to outside utilities. RVs may include, but are not limited
to, campers, motor homes, camping trailers, tent trailers, fifth wheels, and
travel trailers.
RECREATION VEHICLE PARK: A tract or parcel of land comprising a minimum of
three (3) acres upon which RV spaces are located for temporary occupancy.
RECREATION VEHICLE SPACE: A plot of ground with a sufficient all weather
surface area within an RV park intended for temporary location of a recreation
vehicle. (Ord. 631, 3-3-2004; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-13B-3: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Commercial And Industrial Zones: RV parks are a permitted use within a
commercial zone (C-1), and RV parks may be allowed as a conditional use within
a light industrial zone (M-2).
   B.   Temporary Occupancy: An RV park owner or operator shall only allow
temporary occupancy in the RV park for recreation vehicles.
   C.   Connection To Utilities: Unless located in an RV park, no permanent
electrical, water or sewer connections are permitted for RVs, nor shall space
for RVs be rented or leased for consideration. (Ord. 631, 3-3-2004)
9-13B-4: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
The city shall review all improvements on the site for conformance with state
statutes, state administrative rules, and local design standards. In addition
to any public facilities that may be required for a commercial development that
is reviewed by the city, the following design standard shall apply to RV parks:
   A.   Density: Provided all other standards and requirements of this title
are met, the maximum density of an RV park shall not exceed twenty (20) RV
spaces per gross acre.
   B.   Trash Receptacles: Exterior trash receptacles are not allowed, except
for those provided for customers by the RV park operator or owner. Such
receptacles shall be a minimum size of two (2) cubic yards, placed in
conveniently accessible areas, and adequately screened on three (3) sides.
(Ord. 631, 3-3-2004)
   C.   RV Space, Pad: Each RV space shall have an RV pad constructed of
concrete, minimum fourteen feet (14') in width, and be drained appropriately to
prevent standing water. The length of each RV pad shall be adequate to allow
the RV to be parked on the RV pad. An RV pad shall not be located closer than
fourteen feet (14') to any other RV pad and not closer than ten feet (10') to
any building, dwelling, street or roadway boundary. An RV pad shall not be
located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any property line. An RV space shall
not be located in any required off street parking space or required yard areas.
(Ord. 631, 3-3-2004; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   D.   Vehicle Parking: All parking spaces within the RV park shall be
constructed of asphalt or concrete. In addition to the RV pad, which shall be
constructed of concrete, each RV space shall have parking for at least two (2)
passenger vehicles. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   E.   Internal Streets, Access Roads And Pedestrian Paths:
      1.   Internal streets and pedestrian paths in the RV park shall be
provided and maintained by the property owner. One-way access roads shall have
a width of at least fourteen feet (14'). Two-way access roads shall have a
width of at least twenty eight feet (28'). If parallel parking is to be
allowed, an additional ten feet (10') of improved width is required along the
side where parking is allowed. Any pedestrian path along a street shall be
provided on an all weather surface area at least four feet (4') in width.
      2.   Access roads and interior roads and streets shall be paved and each
shall have a direct connection to a public paved street. The entrances and
exits to the RV park shall be designed with adequate parking area for those
registering, checking out, or stopping at any convenience store without
blocking access to designated RV spaces and without causing traffic congestion
on adjacent streets. The turning radii at intersections and corners shall be
adequate to enable safe turning movements and continuous forward motion for
RVs.
   F.   Utility Connections: Each RV space shall provide utility connections
for electrical, sewer and water service. Water supply shall be sufficient to
meet all fire flow requirements. All utilities in the RV park shall be
underground.
   G.   Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall be directed away from adjacent
residential properties and streets.
   H.   Structures Prohibited: No permanent or temporary structures, including,
but not limited to, porches, decks, sheds, and carports, shall be allowed at
any RV space.
   I.   On Site Manager, Off Street Parking Spaces: Two (2) off street parking
spaces shall be provided and designated for the on site manager. Off street
parking will be required for additional employees in compliance with chapter 11
of this title.
   J.   Accessory Buildings Allowed: Accessory buildings are permanent
structures that may be constructed on site for RV park users for any of the
following uses:
      1.   Office.
      2.   Recreation.
      3.   Equipment and maintenance storage.
      4.   Clubhouse.
      5.   Laundry, restroom, and shower facilities.
      6.   Tourist information center.
      7.   Storage areas for RV park users.
      8.   Convenience and grocery store.
   K.   Access To Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall be accessible
only from streets internal to the RV park. Signage for accessory uses, except
for the office location, shall not be visible from any street outside the RV
park in any manner that is intended to attract customers other than occupants
of the RV park.
   L.   Laundry Facilities: One unit of laundry facilities shall consist of a
washer and a dryer. One unit of laundry facilities shall be provided for every
ten (10) RV spaces in the park.
   M.   Restroom Facilities: One unit of restroom facilities shall consist of a
separate shower, toilet, and dressing area for each sex. One unit of restroom
facilities for each sex shall be provided for every twenty five (25) RV spaces
in the park. Restroom facilities shall be provided with floor drains to permit
easy cleaning.
   N.   Storage Of Equipment, Materials: All storage of equipment or materials
for maintenance of the premises shall be in permanent structures.
   O.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be installed in accordance with section
9-10-6 of this title and maintained in a healthy condition at all times.
Included within this landscape requirement shall be the following for an RV
park:
      1.   One shade tree shall be provided for each three (3) RV spaces in the
park.
      2.   An RV park with twenty (20) or more spaces shall provide a play
field or playground for children.
   P.   Fencing Required: The perimeter of the RV park, except for that area
that fronts on the primary street for access, shall be surrounded by a six foot
(6') high sight obscuring fence and trees which will reach a minimum height of
six feet (6') upon maturity. The perimeter trees shall not count toward the
calculation of landscape requirements under section
9-10-6 of this title.
   Q.   Spaces Numbered Or Lettered: Each RV space within an RV park shall have
numbers or letters for identification in accordance with state statutes and
administrative rules. (Ord. 631, 3-3-2004)
9-13B-5: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residency, Length Of Stay:
      1.   No RV space shall be used as a permanent place of residency.
      2.   No RV shall occupy any space or spaces in an RV park for more than
one hundred eighty (180) days during any twelve (12) month period. Length of
stay restrictions shall not apply to temporary construction workers who are
working at the Port Westward industrial site until after December 31, 2006. A
longer length of stay request may be granted by the city for good cause upon
written petition by the owner or operator of an RV park on behalf of a
particular RV park user.
   B.   Mobile Homes Prohibited: RV parks shall not be occupied by mobile homes
or park models.
   C.   Storage Restrictions:
      1.   Materials shall not be stored on top of or under any RV except for
those travel containers that are accessories to the RV.
      2.   Household goods, clotheslines, and storage containers, including
sheds of any kind, shall not be visible from the outside at any RV space.
   D.   External Appurtenances: No external appurtenances, such as carports,
cabanas, or patios may be attached to any RV while it is in an RV park, except
for portable awnings and screens that are accessories to and transported with
the RV.
   E.   Sales Of Food And Supplies: Camping supplies and convenience foods may
be sold within a permanent enclosed structure for the convenience of RV park
users.
   F.   Manager, Customer Records: Each RV park shall have an on site manager
available at all times to respond to customer concerns. The RV park manager
shall maintain records for all customers pertaining to length of stay, and such
records shall be made available to the city upon its request.
   G.   Flood Hazard Zone: If the RV park is located in a flood hazard zone,
the on site manager of the park will cooperate with government officials upon
notice of evacuation. To facilitate an evacuation, the manager of the park will
ensure that RVs are able to move quickly out of the floodplain. (Ord. 631, 3-3-
2004)
9-13B-6: PERFORMANCE BOND:
The city may require that a developer provide a performance bond to the city in
an amount sufficient to cover any off site improvements for public facilities.
(Ord. 631, 3-3-2004)
9-13B-7: APPEARANCE AND COMPLIANCE:
The RV park operator or owner shall be responsible for the following:
maintenance of the RV park including landscaping and on site utilities;
ensuring a nuisance free and clean appearance for the RV park to the
satisfaction of the city; and compliance with any special use permit or
approved plan conditions. (Ord. 631, 3-3-2004)
9-13B-8: PROCEDURE FOR TENTATIVE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Plan Copies, Application And Fee: Ten (10) copies of a plan, drawn to
scale, shall be submitted to the city manager with a completed application form
and the required fee. The plan shall include the minimum design standards as
outlined in section
9-13B-4 of this article.
   B.   Review By City: The city manager shall review the submittal to
determine whether the application is complete, as described in subsection
9-3-7D1 of this title.
   C.   Public Hearing: A public hearing before the planning commission shall
be scheduled and held in accordance with section
9-3-7 of this title.
   D.   Tentative Plan Approval: Approval of the tentative design plan shall
not constitute final acceptance of the recreation vehicle park design. However,
the approval of a tentative design shall be binding on the city and the
applicant for the purpose of preparing the final recreation vehicle park
design. The final design plan must comply with all conditions set forth by the
city in the tentative design approval, and the city may require only such
changes in the design as are necessary for compliance with the conditions of
the tentative plan approval and compliance with all laws and regulations.
   E.   Time Limitation: The tentative design shall be valid for one year from
the date of its approval. The planning commission, upon receipt of the
applicant's written request, may grant an extension of the tentative plan
approval for a period of one year. In granting an extension, the planning
commission shall make a written finding that the facts upon which the approval
was based have not changed to an extent sufficient to warrant refiling of the
tentative plan. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
9-13B-9: PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Submission: The applicant shall submit a final design plan prior to the
expiration of the tentative design approval. Any final design not submitted
prior to the expiration of the tentative plan approval shall be considered
void.
   B.   Information Requirements: The final design shall conform to the
information requirements of section
9-13B-5 of this article. The planning commission shall review the final design
to determine that it conforms to the tentative design and all applicable
conditions.
   C.   Review By City: The city manager shall review the submittal to
determine whether the application is complete, as described in subsection
9-3-7D1 of this title.
   D.   Final Design Approval: The final design plan approval must comply with
all conditions set forth by the city for tentative plan approval, and the city
may require only such changes in the design as are necessary for compliance
with the terms of the tentative plan approval and compliance with all laws and
regulations.
   E.   Completion Of Improvements: As a condition of final plan approval, the
city may require that a performance bond be provided to the city to cover the
cost of any improvements required for public facilities. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
CHAPTER 14
PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-14-1: Variances
9-14-2: Conditional Uses
9-14-3: Annexations
9-14-4: Nonconforming Uses And Structures
9-14-5: Temporary Uses; Permit
9-14-6: Temporary Housing
9-14-1: VARIANCES:
Following a public hearing, the planning commission may authorize variances
from the requirements of this title where it can be shown that, owing to
special and unusual circumstances related to a specific property, the literal
interpretation of this title would cause an undue or unnecessary hardship. No
variance shall be granted to allow the use of property for purposes not
authorized within the zone in which the proposed use would be located. In
granting a variance, the planning commission may attach conditions which it
deems necessary to protect the interests of the surrounding property owners or
neighborhood and to otherwise achieve the purposes of this title.
   A.   Application: Application for a variance shall be filed by the property
owner or authorized agent, using the city forms prescribed for that purpose.
The planning commission may request additional drawings and/or information. The
application shall not be considered complete until the required fees are paid.
At a minimum, the application shall contain the following:
      1.   A description of the variance being requested; and
      2.   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing dimensions and arrangement of
the proposed development, as well as the adjacent land uses within fifty feet
(50') of the sites' property lines.
   B.   Criteria For Granting A Variance: The planning commission may grant a
variance only when the applicant has shown that all of the following conditions
exist:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
realization of the comprehensive plan, will not violate any other provision of
this title, and will not create any significant obstacle to implementation of
the plan and the zoning code.
      2.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or be injurious to the property, adjoining
properties, the neighborhood, or the community, will not change the character
of the neighborhood or reduce the value of nearby property, and will not impose
any significant cost upon the city or nearby property owners.
      3.   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
not generally applicable to other property due to the size, shape, topography,
or location of the site or the location of existing buildings or other
conditions.
      4.   The granting of the variance will not result in a use that is not
otherwise permitted in the zoning district in which the variance is being
requested.
   C.   Conditions Attached To Variance: The planning commission shall
designate such conditions to an approved variance as it deems necessary to
secure the purpose of this title. Said planning commission may require
guarantees and evidence that the conditions are being complied with. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following: additional
setbacks for yards and open space, construction of fences and/or walls,
limitations on the number and location of vehicular ingress and egress,
requiring sight obscuring hedges and/or landscaping and ongoing maintenance,
and regulation of the times certain activities shall be allowed.
   D.   Time Limit For Variance: If no substantial construction has occurred,
authorization of a variance shall be void after two (2) years. Upon receipt of
a request, the planning commission may extend a permit for one additional two
(2) year period, if the planning commission finds that circumstances beyond the
control of the applicant have prevented action being taken on the variance.
   E.   Administrative Variance: The city manager and the planning commission
chairperson are authorized to jointly grant a variance of the setback, yard,
height, lot coverage, lot size, width or depth standards of this title without
notice or a public hearing being required. The maximum variance shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the required standard. Applications shall
be made in the same manner as described in subsection A of this section. In
granting an administrative variance, written findings shall be made relative to
the criteria listed in subsection B of this section. Reasonable conditions,
such as described in subsection C of this section, may be attached to an
administrative variance. In the event the city manager and planning commission
chair decline to grant an administrative variance, the applicant shall be
notified in writing. The decision may be appealed by the applicant to the
planning commission within ten (10) days of receiving the notification. (Ord.
652, 6-4-2008)
9-14-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Following a public hearing, the planning commission may grant a conditional
use, subject to such reasonable modifications and conditions as are deemed
necessary to protect the interests of surrounding property owners or
neighborhood, and to otherwise achieve the purposes of this title. Nothing in
this title shall be interpreted as requiring that a conditional use request be
granted. Approval of a conditional use shall not constitute a change of zoning
and shall be granted only for the specific use requested. The setbacks and
limitations of the underlying zone shall apply to the approved use.
   A.   Permit Requirements: A conditional use permit shall be obtained for
each use approved prior to development of the use. The permit shall stipulate
any conditions or modifications imposed by the planning commission, in addition
to these specifically set forth in this title. The conditions may be changed
after the granting of the permit only by the mutual agreement of the city and
the permit holder.
      1.   A permit may be suspended or revoked by the planning commission,
following a quasi-judicial public hearing, if the conditions imposed are not
satisfied. Notice of the hearing shall be provided as described in section
9-3-7 of this title. A suspended permit may be reinstated by the planning
commission if it determines the conditions have been satisfied. A revoked
permit may not be reinstated; a new application must be made to the planning
commission.
      2.   The conditional use must be established within two (2) years of
permit approval or the permit shall be declared null and void. Upon receipt of
a request, the planning commission may extend a permit for one additional two
(2) year period, if it finds that circumstances beyond the applicant's control
have prevented action being taken to establish the use.
   B.   Criteria For Granting Conditional Use: A conditional use request may be
approved if the planning commission finds that the use meets all of the
following criteria:
      1.   The use is listed as a conditional use in the zone currently applied
to the site.
      2.   The use meets the specific standards as listed in this section.
      3.   The proposed location is one that can be adequately served by public
facilities, or the proposed use can be located in a manner that will not
preclude the development of public facilities planned for the future.
      4.   The characteristics of the site are suitable for the proposed use
considering the size, shape, location, topography, existence of improvements,
and the natural features.
      5.   The proposed use will not create any hazardous conditions.
   C.   Standards For Conditional Use In Residential Zone:
      1.   The use shall be located on a collector or arterial street.
      2.   The use shall be served by public sewer and water.
      3.   Home occupations shall meet the requirements of section
9-13-4 of this title, and may be required to provide off street parking if such
is deemed necessary by the planning commission.
      4.   A landscaping plan shall be submitted meeting the requirements of
section
9-10-6 of this title.
   D.   Standards For Conditional Use In R-7 Or R-5 Zone: In addition to those
listed in subsection C of this section, the minimum lot size for a triplex
shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   E.   Standards For Conditional Use In MFR Zone: In addition to those listed
in subsection C of this section, a mobile home park request shall comply with
the following:
      1.   A development plan shall accompany each application and shall
contain details on the following items: topography, public utilities, parking,
streets, landscaping, and any other reasonable information required by the
planning commission.
      2.   The development plan shall comply with all applicable codes and
ordinances and the following minimum standards:
         a.   Each site shall be adequately served by public services and
facilities such as water, sewers, sidewalks and improved streets. Each mobile
home unit shall be provided with water, sewer and electrical connections.
         b.   There shall not be more than fifteen (15) mobile home units per
gross acre.
         c.   All mobile homes shall be located at least twenty five feet (25')
from any public street or highway and at least ten feet (10') from a side or
rear property line.
         d.   No structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
         e.   There shall be a minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces for
every mobile home unit.
         f.   Accessways or driveways shall be lighted in accordance with the
city street lighting standards for urban residential streets as approved by the
planning commission.
         g.   All mobile home parks containing a total area of ten (10) acres
or more shall provide secondary access into the park.
         h.   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') in length.
         i.   Driveways shall be designed to provide for all maneuvering and
parking of mobile homes without encroaching on a public street.
         j.   A sight obscuring fence, evergreen hedge or wall, not less than
five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') in height, may be required by the
planning commission in order to surround or partially surround each mobile home
park site.
         k.   The planning commission may require a public access walkway.
         l.   Each mobile home space shall contain a minimum of two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet; however, the owner has the option to reduce
the minimum size to two thousand (2,000) square feet if an area of two hundred
fifty (250) square feet for each mobile home is provided as recreational area.
Recreational area requirements are detailed in subsection E2m of this section.
Each mobile home space shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') in width,
and shall abut on a drive with unobstructed access to a street. Mobile homes
shall be sited so as to have a minimum of fifteen feet (15') between each unit.
         m.   Recreational areas, as required under this section, shall be a
minimum of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet in size, suitably
equipped, restricted to recreational uses and protected from streets and
parking areas.
         n.   No mobile home shall remain in a mobile home park unless space is
available.
         o.   Permanent structures located on any mobile home space shall be
used for storage purposes only. These structures shall have a minimum area of
twenty five (25) square feet, be located not less than six feet (6') from any
mobile home and shall be subject to all of the applicable provisions of the
state building code standards. These structures shall be uniform and included
in the plan submitted to and approved by the planning commission.
      3.   The planning commission may approve, disapprove or modify any
application and attach reasonable conditions to the development plan. No
building permit shall be issued except for construction conforming to the
approved development plan.
   F.   Standards For Conditional Use In Commercial Zone:
      1.   The use shall be located on an arterial or collector street.
      2.   The use shall be served by public sewer and water.
      3.   The use shall conform with all other restrictions of the zone.
      4.   Signs advertising the use shall meet the provisions of chapter 12 of
this title.
   G.   Standards For Adult Business Conditional Use:
      1.   In addition to the regulations of this title, an adult business must
comply with all the requirements of this Code, which would be applicable to the
use as if such activity were not restricted to any persons under twenty one
(21) years of age.
      2.   The adult business shall not be located within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of any tax lot upon which there is located a church or other
religious institution, educational institution primarily attended by minors, a
public park or recreational facility, a nursery, preschool or childcare center,
a governmental institution, or library. The distance shall be measured in a
straight line from the closest edge of the structure in which the adult
business is located to the closest edge of the tax lot upon which the above
listed facilities are located.
      3.   The adult business shall not be located within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of any Multi-Family Residential Zone (MFR). The distance shall be
measured in a straight line from the closest edge of the structure in which the
adult business is located to the closest edge of the MFR Zone.
      4.   All doorways, windows and other openings shall be located, covered
or screened in such a manner to prevent a view into the interior from any
exterior public or semipublic area.
      5.   Any change in the nature of a nonconforming adult business activity
shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and may be permitted as a
conditional use after a public hearing. The nature of adult business activities
consists of the following: gambling, including lottery machines; the serving of
alcohol on premises; nudity; or other types of adult business activity. (Ord.
652, 6-4-2008)
   H.   Standards For Marijuana Dispensary, Grow Site, And Processing Site And
Recreational Marijuana Processors, Producers, Retailers, And Wholesalers
Conditional Use:
      1.   In addition to the regulations of this title, medical marijuana
dispensary, grow site, and processing site and recreational marijuana
processors, producers, retailers, and wholesaler businesses must comply with
all the requirements of this Code.
      2.   A marijuana dispensary or marijuana business shall not be located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any tax lot upon which there is located an
educational institution primarily attended by minors or a public park owned
and/or maintained by the Clatskanie Parks and Recreation District to include
Tax Lots 7408-DB-04801; 7408-DB-04800; 7408-DA-05400; 7408-DA-05500; 7408-DB-
04602; 7408-DB-04900; 7408-DB-05500; 7408-DA-05600; and 7408-DD-00400. The
distance shall be measured in a straight line from the closest edge of the tax
lot where the structure in which the medical marijuana dispensary and/or
recreational marijuana business as defined in section
9-2-2 of this title is located to the closest edge of the tax lot upon which
the above listed facility is located. (Ord. 679, 4-6-2016)
9-14-3: ANNEXATIONS:
The City Council shall approve or deny an annexation by ordinance, based on a
recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   A.   Application: A property owner may initiate an annexation by filing an
application with the City, using City forms and paying a filing fee, which may
be waived by the Council. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the request, with notice provided in the same manner as for a quasi-judicial
action, and make a recommendation to the Council.
   B.   Criteria: The application shall meet the following:
      1.   Comply with the Comprehensive Plan and all other applicable City
policies and ordinances;
      2.   Comply with the applicable sections of Oregon Revised Statutes
chapter 222; and
      3.   City has the capacity to provide urban level services.
   C.   City Council Action: The City Council shall hold a public hearing on
the request, with notice provided in the same manner as for a quasi-judicial
action, and may decide to approve or deny the application.
   D.   Zoning Newly Annexed Areas: At the time an annexation is approved, the
City Council shall zone the site in a manner comparable with the County zone
previously in place.
   E.   Service Extensions: Property owners in the annexed area must bear the
costs associated with the extension of sewer and major water main needed to
facilitate the functioning of the Citywide system, or to accommodate
substantial future growth. At the discretion of the City Council, the City may
assess property owners in the annexed area for a portion of the costs
associated with major facilities.
   F.   Waiver Of Hearing Requirement: Notwithstanding the other provisions of
this section, if an application seeks, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes
222.125, annexation of territory contiguous to the City as to which all of the
owners of the land in that territory and not less than fifty percent (50%) of
the electors, if any, residing in the territory consent in writing and file a
statement of consent with the Council, then the Council shall not be required
to hold a public hearing on the request or provide notice as for a quasi-
judicial action, but shall act upon the recommendation of the Planning
Commission to the Council. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-14-4: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
Except as provided in this section, a nonconforming use or structure may be
continued, even though it is not in conformity with the use, height, area and
all other regulations for the zone in which it is located.
   A.   Normal Maintenance And Repairs: Normal maintenance of a nonconforming
building or structure containing a nonconforming use is permitted, including
structural alterations to the bearing walls, foundation, columns, beams or
girders; provided, that:
      1.   No change in the basic use of the building occurs that would make
the use less conforming to the zone.
      2.   No alterations which would enlarge the exterior structure are made.
   B.   Change To Conforming Use: A nonconforming use may be changed to a use
allowable under the underlying zone. After a nonconforming use changes to a
conforming use, it shall not, thereafter, be changed back to a nonconforming
use.
   C.   Reinstatement Of Discontinued Use: A nonconforming use may be resumed
if the discontinuation is for a period less than one year. If the use has been
discontinued for a period greater than one year, the building or land shall
thereafter be occupied and used only for a conforming use.
   D.   Rebuilding, Change, Moving Of Use:
      1.   Requirements; Findings: A nonconforming building or use may be
rebuilt, moved or changed to a use of the same restrictive classification,
subject to the provisions outlined herein, only if, upon public hearing, the
planning commission finds all of the following to exist:
         a.   That such modifications are necessary because of practical
difficulties or public need.
         b.   That such modifications are no greater than are necessary to
overcome the practical difficulties or meet the public need.
         c.   That such modifications will not significantly interfere with the
use and enjoyment of other land in the vicinity, nor detract from the property
value thereof.
         d.   That such modifications will not endanger the public health,
safety and general welfare.
      2.   Rebuilding: When a building or structure is damaged by fire or any
other cause beyond the control of the owner, it may be rebuilt, so long as the
cost of the renewal of the damage does not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of
the current assessed valuation of the improvements on the property, using new
materials. If the estimated cost of renewal is greater than the above, then
such building or use shall be discontinued.
      3.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use may be changed to a use of the
same or a more restrictive classification, but not to a use of a less
restrictive classification.
      4.   Moving: A nonconforming use may be moved to another location on its
lot, provided the height and yard requirements of the zone in which it is
located are met.
   E.   Enlargement Of Nonconforming Use Or Structure:
      1.   Requirements: A nonconforming use or structure may be enlarged only
once. This enlargement must be approved by the planning commission. The
expansion of a nonconforming structure shall not exceed twenty five percent
(25%) of the floor area; the expansion of a nonconforming use shall not exceed
ten percent (10%) of the land area currently occupied by the nonconforming use.
The expansion of a nonconforming use or structure may occur only if the
planning commission finds that:
         a.   The proposed enlargement will not have a significantly adverse
impact upon the adjoining properties.
         b.   The proposed enlargement is necessary for the continued efficient
operation of the existing use or structure.
         c.   The enlargement or expansion of the nonconforming use or
structure is in keeping with the intent of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Conditions: The planning commission may attach to the approval of
the expansion of a nonconforming use or structure, conditions such as setbacks,
screening, off street parking and unloading, construction standards and
maintenance, and landscaping which may be deemed necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, the adjacent property owners and the public
interest.
   F.   Adult Businesses: An adult business nonconforming use or structure may
be replaced after a period of business closure or loss of structure only if an
adult business is resumed or the city accepts a building permit application
within six (6) months of such business closure or loss of structure. In
addition to the requirements of this section, any change in the nature of the
activities of an adult business nonconforming use shall be reviewed by the
planning commission and may be permitted as a conditional use after a public
hearing. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-14-5: TEMPORARY USES; PERMIT:
The planning commission may allow temporary uses by issuance of a permit that
shall be valid for a period of not more than one year. The planning commission
may attach conditions to the permit that are deemed necessary to carry out the
intent and purpose of this title. Such permits may be issued for the following:
   A.   Storage of equipment during the building of roads or developments.
   B.   Real estate offices located in subdivisions for the sale of lots or
housing only for those subdivisions.
   C.   Temporary storage of structures or equipment, including boats and
trailers.
   D.   Sheds or fences used in conjunction with the building or renovation of
a structure.
   E.   Other uses of a temporary nature when approved by both the planning
commission and the city council. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
9-14-6: TEMPORARY HOUSING:
   A.   Time Limitation On Use: A manufactured dwelling, mobile home,
residential trailer, travel trailer, camper, motor home, or recreational
vehicle may be used as temporary housing for a limited period of time, not to
exceed six (6) months.
   B.   Siting For No More Than Six Months, Conditions: The siting of a
manufactured dwelling, mobile home, residential trailer, travel trailer,
camper, motor home, or recreational vehicle on private property for the purpose
of temporary housing for a period of no more than six (6) months may be allowed
by the planning commission under the following conditions:
      1.   The lot on which the manufactured dwelling, mobile home, residential
trailer, travel trailer, camper, motor home, or recreational vehicle is to be
sited has no other principal building and meets the minimum square footage and
other requirements of the zone in which it is located.
      2.   Must be placed only with permission of the property owner.
      3.   Must be in compliance with Oregon Revised Statutes 446.125.
      4.   An application is filed according to subsection
9-3-7D of this title regarding quasi-judicial hearings, and a public hearing is
held before the planning commission.
   C.   Siting For Thirty Days Or Less, Conditions: The siting of a
manufactured dwelling, mobile home, residential trailer, travel trailer,
camper, motor home, or recreational vehicle on private property for the purpose
of temporary housing for a period of thirty (30) days or less may be permitted
by the city manager under the following conditions:
      1.   Must be placed only with permission of the property owner.
      2.   Can be placed on a lot containing another principal building,
provided it meets all setback requirements, except as provided in subsection C3
of this section.
      3.   Can be set on a driveway, provided it does not interfere with
meeting the off street parking requirement of the zone.
      4.   Must be in compliance with Oregon Revised Statutes 446.125.
      5.   The filing of an application and the payment of the administrative
fee.
   D.   Prohibited On Public Right Of Way Or Easement: No temporary housing is
allowed on or within any public right of way or easement. (Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
CHAPTER 15
LAND DIVISION
SECTION:
9-15-1: Redivision Plan
9-15-2: Lot Line Adjustment
9-15-3: Limitations On Partitioning And Subdividing
9-15-4: Application For Partition Or Subdivision
9-15-5: Procedure For Tentative Plan Review
9-15-6: Format And Content Of Plat
9-15-7: Procedure For Final Plat Review
9-15-8: Major Partition
9-15-9: Minor Partition
9-15-10: Subdivision
9-15-11: Minimum Residential Street And Sidewalk Development Standards
9-15-1: REDIVISION PLAN:
When public water and/or sewer are not yet available to a site being
partitioned, the lots created through the partition process shall be of
sufficient size to allow for subsurface sewage disposal and/or wells, and the
partitioning approval not be granted until a redivision plan, showing how the
lots can be redivided when public services become available, has been filed
with the city manager. The redivision plan shall be drawn to the same scale as
the tentative partition plan, referred to in sections
9-15-4 and
9-15-6 of this chapter, and shall show: a) the lot lines included in the
partition being requested; b) the location of the proposed buildings; and c)
the future lots that could be created to meet all of the dimensional
requirements of the same when public services are available. (1996 Code §
17.80.010)
9-15-2: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Definition: A "lot line adjustment" is a change in the boundary between
two (2) or more parcels which does not create a new parcel or lot. It is not
considered a land division for the purposes of this chapter. However, because
it does change existing parcel boundaries and land use patterns, it requires
review and approval by the city manager.
   B.   Allowing Adjustment: Following public notice, the adjustment of a lot
line by mutual consent of the property owners may be permitted by the city
manager in any zone, provided the adjustment in no way increases the degree of
nonconformity of any parcel or violates any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 574, 8-7-1996; amd. Ord. 599, 11-3-1999; 2004 Code)
   C.   Public Response; City Action:
      1.   If there is no negative public response that addresses the criteria
for the proposed lot line adjustment, it may be approved administratively.
      2.   If there is objection based on the criteria for the proposed lot
line adjustment, the application must be forwarded to the planning commission
for its decision after a public hearing on the application. (Ord. 599, 11-3-
1999; amd. 2004 Code)
9-15-3: LIMITATIONS ON PARTITIONING AND SUBDIVIDING:
   A.   Compliance With State And Local Laws: No land may be partitioned or
subdivided except in accordance with this title and state law.
   B.   Street Or Road Creation: No person shall create a street or road for
the purpose of partitioning land without the approval of the city.
   C.   Dedicating Land To Public Use: No instrument dedicating land to the
public use shall be accepted for recording unless it has been approved by the
city. (1996 Code § 17.80.015)
   D.   WRC Overlay Zone, Standards: Subdivisions, replats, partitions, and
property line adjustments in the WRC overlay zone shall be subject to the
following standards:
      1.   Each lot created shall have at least one thousand (1,000) square
feet of upland available for building coverage, required off street parking,
and required access.
      2.   The building site shall not include significant wetlands and
buffers, or significant riparian corridors.
      3.   Protected resources may be counted toward meeting the base zone's
minimum lot size for each lot, and may be included in front, side, and rear
yard setbacks, as appropriate. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
      4.   Transportation facilities and structures, including, but not limited
to, streets and driveways; and utility lines, including, but not limited to,
water lines, sewer lines and storm water lines, shall be located in accordance
with city standards and approval. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000; amd. 2004 Code)
      5.   For lots or parcels created subject to these provisions, the
existence of a protected resource or buffer area shall not form the basis for a
future setback reduction or variance request. (Ord. 601, 5-3-2000)
9-15-4: APPLICATION FOR PARTITION OR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Application, Tentative Plan Required: Before a plat may be approved and
recorded, the person proposing the partition or subdivision shall submit an
application accompanied by a tentative plan showing the general design of the
proposed partition or subdivision.
   B.   Tentative Plan Information: The tentative plan shall include the
following information:
      1.   The date, north arrow, scale and location, by township, range and
section, of the parcel to be partitioned.
      2.   Names and addresses of the owner(s), the applicant(s), the engineer
and/or surveyor employed in the preparation of the plan.
      3.   Amount of acreage in the original parcel, the acreage of the
resulting parcels and the dimensions of each.
      4.   Current use(s) of the property, including an outline showing size
and location of existing structures and noting whether they are to remain.
(1996 Code § 17.80.020)
      5.   Approximate location of physical features such as wooded areas, rock
outcrops, wetlands, floodplains and drainageways. If the property is wholly or
partially within the WRC overlay zone, the significant wetland-upland boundary,
as determined by a wetland delineation prepared by a qualified individual, and
the significant riparian corridor boundary shall be included. (Ord. 601, 5-3-
2000)
      6.   Locations, names and widths of all streets and easements adjacent to
and within the parcel to be partitioned and a layout showing the relationship
of each new parcel to the existing or proposed streets and easements.
      7.   Locations of all wells, water lines and subsurface sewage disposal
systems on the parcel, if any.
      8.   Proposed locations of sewer and water systems, and site drainage
easements. (1996 Code § 17.80.020)
      9.   Location, name, width, approximate radius of curves and grade of all
proposed streets, the relationship of such streets to any projected or existing
streets adjoining the proposed partition, and the location and width of all
rights of way, easements, and sidewalks within the proposed partition or
subdivision. All streets and sidewalks shall comply with the standards adopted
by ordinance or resolution of the council 1 . (Ord. 572, 8-7-1996)
      10.   When slopes on the site exceed ten percent (10%), contour lines
shall be shown at intervals of two feet (2').
      11.   The city manager may also require approximate centerline profiles
with extensions for a reasonable distance beyond the limits of the proposed
major partition showing the finished grade of streets and the nature and extent
of street construction.
   C.   Lot Size:
      1.   All residential parcels or lots created under this title shall
contain the minimum lot size required by the zone, unless a larger lot size is
necessary to provide adequate area for subsurface sewage disposal.
      2.   If larger lots are necessary, the potential for future redivision of
these lots shall be assured by a redivision plan as described in section
9-15-1 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 17.80.020)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-15-11 of this chapter.
9-15-5: PROCEDURE FOR TENTATIVE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Plan Copies, Application And Fee: Ten (10) copies of a tentative plan,
drawn to scale, shall be submitted to the city manager with a completed
application form and the required fee. The tentative plan shall follow the
format outlined in section
9-15-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Review By Manager: The city manager shall review the submittal to
determine whether the application is complete, as described in subsection
9-3-7D1 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.80.025)
   C.   Water Right Statement: The city manager shall notify the applicant of
the requirement to file a statement of water right and, if a water right is
appurtenant, a copy of the acknowledgment from the state of Oregon must be
attached before the county recording officer may accept the plat for recording
pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 92.120. (1996 Code § 17.80.025; amd. 2004
Code)
   D.   Wetland Areas: If the property is wholly or partially within areas
identified as wetlands on the statewide wetlands inventory, the city manager
shall notify the applicant, the owner of record and the division of state
lands, as described in section
9-13-6 of this title.
   E.   Public Hearing: A public hearing before the planning commission shall
be scheduled and held in accordance with section
9-3-7 of this title.
   F.   Appeal: The decision of the planning commission may be appealed to the
city council in accordance with section
9-3-9 of this title. (1996 Code § 17.80.025)
   G.   Tentative Plan Approval: Approval of the tentative plan shall not
constitute final acceptance of the plat of the proposed partition or
subdivision for recording. However, the approval of a tentative plan shall be
binding on the city and the applicant for the purpose of preparing a final
partition or subdivision plat. The final plat must comply with all conditions
set forth by the city in the tentative partition plan approval, and the city
may require only such changes in the plat as are necessary for compliance with
the terms of the tentative plan approval and compliance with all laws and
regulations. (1996 Code § 17.80.025; amd. Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   H.   Time Limitation: The tentative plan shall be valid for one year from
the date of its approval. The planning commission, upon receipt of the
applicant's written request, may grant an extension of the tentative plan
approval for a period of one year. In granting an extension, the planning
commission shall make a written finding that the facts upon which the approval
was based have not changed to an extent sufficient to warrant refiling of the
tentative plan.
   I.   Final Action: The city shall take final action on an application for
approval of a tentative plan within one hundred twenty (120) days, as required
in Oregon Revised Statutes 227.178, unless the applicant requests an extension
or the parties have agreed to mediation as described in Oregon Revised Statutes
197.319(2)(b). (1996 Code § 17.80.025)
9-15-6: FORMAT AND CONTENT OF PLAT:
   A.   Compliance With State And Local Laws: All plats subdividing or
partitioning land shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of this
title and state laws, including, but not limited to, Oregon Revised Statutes
92.080 and 92.120.
   B.   Format: The format of the plat shall be as follows:
Permanent black India type ink or silver halide permanent photocopy, upon
material that is eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") in size with
an additional three inch (3") binding edge on the left side when required by
the county clerk or the county surveyor, that is suitable for binding and
copying purposes, and that has such characteristics of strength and permanency
as may be required by the county surveyor. The plat shall be of such a scale as
required by the county surveyor. The lettering of the approvals, the
dedication, the affidavit of the surveyor and all other information shall be of
such a size or type as will be clearly legible, but no part shall come nearer
any edge of the sheet than one inch (1"). The subdivision or partition plat may
be placed on as many sheets as necessary, but a face sheet and an index page
shall be included for plats placed upon three (3) or more sheets.
   C.   Information Required: The information contained on the plat shall
include:
      1.   The name of the partition, date the plat was prepared, scale, north
arrow, legend and features such as highways and railroads.
      2.   Reference and bearings, to adjoining surveys.
      3.   The location and descriptions of all monuments found or set shall be
carefully recorded upon all plats and the property courses and distances of all
boundary lines shall be shown.
      4.   Exact location and width of streets and easements intersecting the
boundary of the subdivision.
      5.   Partition and lot boundary lines, with the acreage of each parcel.
Lots numbered beginning with "1" and numbered consecutively in each block,
using the same sequence as sections are numbered in a township.
      6.   Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified and, if
already of record, their recorded reference. If an easement is not of record,
there shall be a written statement of the easement, and the plat will show the
width, length and bearing, as well as sufficient ties to locate the easement
with respect to the partition. If the easement is being dedicated by the map,
it shall be properly referenced in the owner's certificate of dedication.
      7.   Locations and widths of drainage channels, railroad rights of way,
reserve strips at the end of stubbed streets or along the edge of partial width
streets on the boundary of the partition.
      8.   Parcels to be dedicated shall be distinguished from lots intended
for sale with acreage and alphabetical symbols for each parcel indicated.
      9.   A statement of water rights noted on the partition plat.
      10.   Major partition and subdivision plats will also require street
right of way centerlines with dimensions to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot
(0.01'), bearings of deflection angles, radii, arcs, points of curvature, chord
bearings and distances, and tangent bearings. Partition boundaries, lot
boundaries and street bearings shall be shown to the nearest thirty (30)
seconds. The name and width of the streets being dedicated, the width of any
existing right of way, and the width on each side of the centerline. For
streets on curvature, curve data shall be based on the street centerline. In
addition to the centerline dimensions, the radius and central angle shall be
indicated. (1996 Code § 17.80.030)
9-15-7: PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAT REVIEW:
   A.   Submission: The applicant shall submit a final plat prior to the
expiration of the tentative plan approval. Any final plat not submitted prior
to the expiration of the tentative plan approval shall be considered void.
(1996 Code § 17.80.035)
   B.   Information Requirements: The final plat shall conform to the
information requirements of section
9-15-4 of this chapter. The planning commission shall review the final plat to
determine that it conforms with the tentative plan and all applicable
conditions and is in compliance with all laws and regulations. (Ord. 643, 3-1-
2006)
   C.   Completion Of Improvements: Prior to the approval of the final
partition plat, the applicant shall complete improvements as proposed, or enter
into an agreement for improvements together with a bond. (1996 Code §
17.80.035)
   D.   Signature And Date Required: If the final plat conforms to the
tentative plan and all applicable conditions, the city manager and the planning
commission chair shall sign and date the final plat. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   E.   Survey And Monumentation; Recording With County:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all
the requirements of survey and monumentation listed in Oregon Revised Statutes
92.050 through 92.070 and to deliver the final plat to the county surveyor for
review and recording according to the requirements of Oregon Revised Statutes
chapter 92. The approval of the final plat shall be null and void if the plat
is not recorded within ninety (90) day after the date of the last required
approving signature.
      2.   The county surveyor shall furnish the city with a copy of the
recorded plat. (1996 Code § 17.80.035)
9-15-8: MAJOR PARTITION:
The procedure for application and review of a major partition is described in
sections
9-15-4 through
9-15-7 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 17.80.040)
9-15-9: MINOR PARTITION:
The procedure for application and review of a minor partition is described in
sections
9-15-4 through
9-15-7 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 17.80.045)
9-15-10: SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Application And Review: The procedure for application and review of a
subdivision is described in sections
9-15-4 through
9-15-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Information Required: In addition, the following information shall
accompany the plat:
      1.   A copy of the subdivision's deed restrictions, which shall include
building setback lines, if any;
      2.   A copy of any dedication requiring separate documents;
      3.   Warranty deeds conveying any property to the city; and
      4.   The vacation of any existing easements.
   C.   Nonresidential Partitions Or Subdivisions, Standards: Nonresidential
partitions or subdivisions shall also be subject to the following standards:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      2.   Street right of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and stormwater
drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels abutting existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas. (1996 Code § 17.80.050)
9-15-11: MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL STREET AND SIDEWALK DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Minimum residential street and sidewalk development standards are hereby
established for the city, as follows:
   A.   Width Standards:
 
Type Of Street          Right Of Way Street Width Sidewalk Width
Low density residential 40 feet      28 feet      4 feet, 1 side
Standard residential    50 feet      36 feet      4 feet, both sides
Residential collector   60 feet      40 feet      5 feet, both sides
 
   B.   Low Density Residential Defined: "Low density residential" shall be
defined as: cul-de-sacs and dead end streets serving no more than ten (10)
dwelling units when fully developed, subdivisions with a minimum lot size of
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, or specific areas where topographic
conditions prevent a wider right of way.
   C.   Sidewalks: All sidewalks shall be placed within the public right of
way.
   D.   Pedestrian Access: All residential subdivisions shall provide a
reasonable and safe pedestrian access to the central part of the community.
(Ord. 652, 6-4-2008)
CHAPTER 16
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
9-16-1: Purposes
9-16-2: Approval Process
9-16-3: Application Administration
9-16-4: Expiration Of Approval And Extension Of Time
9-16-5: Noncompliance And Performance Bond
9-16-6: Applicability Of Base Zone Provisions
9-16-7: Phased Development
9-16-8: Approval Standards
9-16-9: Application Submission Requirements; Preliminary Development Plan
9-16-10: Detailed Site Plan
9-16-11: Grading And Drainage Plan
9-16-12: Landscape Plan
9-16-13: Common Space
9-16-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of the planned unit development (PUD) are:
   A.   To provide a means for creating planned environments through the
application of flexible standards, which allow for the application of new
techniques and new technology in community development, which will result in an
enhanced living arrangement.
   B.   To facilitate the efficient use of land, which may be accomplished by
such development design alternatives such as clustering or grouping lots or
housing types to maximize common space for the benefit of residents and may
include such amenities as recreation facilities and incidental residential
services.
   C.   To promote an economic arrangement of land use, buildings, circulation
systems, open space, and utilities.
   D.   To preserve to the greatest extent possible the existing landscape
features and amenities through the use of a planning procedure that can relate
the type and design of a development to a particular site.
   E.   To encourage development that recognizes the relationship between
various structures, open spaces, and access, and thereby maximize the
opportunities for innovative and diversified living environments.
   F.   To encourage comprehensive development rather than parcel by parcel
development.
   G.   To allow for a more flexible and creative approach to the development
of land that will result in an efficient, aesthetic, and desirable use of open
areas while maintaining the density permitted in the base zone.
   H.   To allow flexibility in the design and placement of buildings, open
spaces, circulation facilities, and off street parking areas to best utilize
the site potential and characteristics of topography and parcel size and shape.
(Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-2: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Development, Residential Zones: The PUD designation is a method of
development applicable to all residential zones.
   B.   Steps In Process: There are three (3) steps to the PUD approval
process:
      1.   Approval by the planning commission of the preliminary PUD site
plan.
      2.   Approval by the planning commission of the final PUD development
plan.
      3.   Approval by the city council of all related development agreements.
   C.   Application For Zone Change, PUD Approval: The application for a zone
change and for approval of the preliminary PUD site plan may be heard
concurrently if an application for each of the actions is submitted. (Ord. 626,
12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-3: APPLICATION ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Application By Recorded Owner: The applicant for a PUD preliminary and
final development plan approval shall be the recorded owner of the property or
an agent authorized in writing by the owner.
   B.   Minimum Size Of Land: A PUD shall not be allowed on any lands less than
one acre in size.
   C.   Meet With City Staff: The applicant is encouraged to meet with city
staff prior to application submittal. Failure of the city to provide any of the
information required shall not constitute a waiver of any standard, criterion,
or requirement for the application. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-4: EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL AND EXTENSION OF TIME:
   A.   Detailed Development Plan Required: The preliminary development plan
approval by the planning commission shall lapse if a detailed development plan
proposal has not been submitted for approval within eighteen (18) months or
unless an extension of time is applied for and granted.
   B.   Extension Of Time: The planning commission may grant an extension of
time for final plan submittal not to exceed one year. The applicant must
provide a written request for this extension.
   C.   Preliminary Plan Changes, Fee: If the extension of time request or the
final development plan contains substantial changes to the preliminary plan in
the opinion of the city manager, then the applicant shall be required to pay an
additional application fee and resubmit the changes for preliminary plan
approval. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-5: NONCOMPLIANCE AND PERFORMANCE BOND:
   A.   Noncompliance A Violation: Noncompliance with an approved detailed
development plan shall be a violation of this title.
   B.   Performance Bond Or Other Security: The development shall be completed
in accordance with the approved final detailed development plan including
landscaping and recreation areas before any occupancy permits are issued. The
city may, as a precondition to the issuance of a required permit, require the
posting of a performance bond or other surety to secure execution of the
condition by a time certain not to exceed one year. The performance bond or
other surety shall be in an amount sufficient to cover city's cost to complete
work that is unfinished by the developer in accordance with the final detailed
development plan or development agreement. The performance bond or other surety
may cover the following:
      1.   When the city determines that immediate execution of any feature of
an approved detailed development plan is impractical due to climatic
conditions, unavailability of materials, or other temporary condition.
      2.   When development may impede or disrupt access or usage of utilities
including, but not limited to, streets, water, sanitary sewer, power, or other
rights of way.
      3.   When development includes provision of public facilities or trade of
land not included within the boundaries of the PUD.
      4.   When a phased development includes the provision of public
facilities in future phases. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-6: APPLICABILITY OF BASE ZONE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Base Zone Provisions: The provisions of the base zone
are applicable as follows:
      1.   Lot Dimension Standards: The minimum lot size, lot depth, and lot
width standards shall not apply except as related to the density computation
listed below.
      2.   Building Height: The building height provisions shall not apply
except within one hundred feet (100') of the perimeter of the PUD.
      3.   Structure Setbacks:
         a.   Front, rear, and side setbacks for structures on the perimeter of
the PUD shall be the same as that required by the base zone.
         b.   Front, rear, and side setbacks shall not apply to structures on
the interior of the PUD.
         c.   In determining setback requirements for individual parcels, the
planning commission may consider several factors, including, but not limited
to, public safety, emergency vehicle access, solar access, environmental and
scenic features, clustered or common wall housing, and compatibility with
adjacent uses.
      4.   Density Computation: The maximum number of residential units
allowable within the PUD shall be computed as follows:
(Gross square feet - right of way area)/lot size of base zone = residential
units
   B.   Other Provisions: All other provisions of the base zone shall apply,
except as modified by this section. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-7: PHASED DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Time Schedule Approval; Limitation: The planning commission shall
approve a time schedule for developing a site in phases, but in no case shall
the total time period for all phases be greater than three (3) years without
reapplying for preliminary development plan review.
   B.   Criteria For Approval: The criteria for approving a phased detail
development plan proposal is that:
      1.   The public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or
prior to each phase.
      2.   The development and occupancy of any phase shall not be dependent on
the use of temporary public facilities. A "temporary public facility" is any
facility not constructed to the applicable city standard. (Ord. 626, 12-18-
2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-8: APPROVAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Public Hearing: A public hearing before the planning commission shall
be scheduled and held in accordance with section
9-3-7 of this title.
   B.   Findings Of Planning Commission: The planning commission shall make
findings that the requirements of this code and other land development
standards are satisfied when approving, or approving with conditions, or that
the criteria is not satisfied when denying an application.
   C.   Appeal: The decision of the planning commission may be appealed to the
city council in accordance with section
9-3-9 of this title. (Ord. 643, 3-1-2006)
   D.   Criteria: In addition, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Structures located on the site shall not be in areas subject to
ground slumping and sliding. For any area of suspected hazard, the city may
require a soils and/or an engineering geologic study based on the proposed
project, which shows the analysis that the area can be made suitable for the
proposed development.
      2.   There shall be adequate distance between on site buildings and other
on site and off site buildings on adjoining properties to provide for adequate
light and air circulation and for fire protection.
      3.   The structures shall be oriented with consideration for the sun and
wind directions, where possible.
      4.   Adequate buffering, screening, and compatibility between adjoining
uses.
      5.   On site screening from view from adjoining properties of such things
as service areas, storage areas, parking lots, and mechanical devices on roofs
shall be provided and the following factors shall be considered in determining
the adequacy of the type and extent of the screening.
      6.   For privacy and noise, nonresidential structures within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of an adjacent residential zone to the PUD shall be located
on the site or be designed in a manner to protect the private areas on the
adjoining properties from view and noise.
      7.   Private outdoor areas shall be screened or designed to provide
privacy for the use of this space.
      8.   All circulation patterns within a development must be designed to
accommodate emergency vehicles.
      9.   Provisions shall be made for pedestrianways and bikeways if such
facilities are shown on an adopted plan.
      10.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the site shall be landscaped.
      11.   Compliance with all other local, state, and federal laws,
practices, and standards. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004; amd. Ord. 643,
3-1-2006)
9-16-9: APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS; PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Forms; Accompaniments: All applications shall be made on forms provided
by the city and shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Ten (10) complete copies of the preliminary development plan and
necessary data or narrative that explains how the development conforms to the
standards.
      2.   The required fee.
   B.   Plan, Data, Narrative: The preliminary development plan, data, and
narrative shall include the following:
      1.   A detailed site plan.
      2.   A grading plan.
      3.   A landscape plan.
      4.   A copy of all existing or proposed restrictions or covenants.
      5.   Any other information or detail as may be required by the city
manager. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-10: DETAILED SITE PLAN:
   A.   Plan Requirements: A detailed site plan shall include existing site
conditions and proposed improvements to include the following:
      1.   Identification information, including the name and address of the
owner, developer, and project designer, and the scale and north arrow.
      2.   A vicinity map showing the location of the property in relation to
adjacent properties, roads, pedestrianways and bikeways, and utility access.
      3.   Boundary lines and dimensions for the perimeter of the property and
the dimensions for all proposed lot lines, section lines, corners, and
monuments, and a calculation for gross area.
      4.   Contour lines at two foot (2') intervals for slopes from zero to ten
percent (10%) and five foot (5') intervals for slopes over ten percent (10%).
      5.   The location, dimensions, and names of all existing and platted
streets and other public ways, railroad tracks and crossings, and easements on
adjacent property and on the site.
      6.   Preliminary engineering plan showing proposed size and placement of
water and sanitary sewer service.
      7.   The location, dimensions and setback distances of all existing and
proposed structures, improvements, and utility and drainage facilities on the
site and on adjoining properties.
      8.   The location and dimensions of existing and proposed entrances and
exits to the site, parking and circulation areas, pedestrian and bicycle
circulation areas, outdoor recreation spaces, common areas, and aboveground
utilities.
      9.   The location of areas to be landscaped.
      10.   Potential natural hazard areas including:
         a.   Floodplain areas.
         b.   Unstable ground (areas subject to slumping, earth slides or
movement).
         c.   Areas having a severe soil erosion potential.
         d.   Areas having severe weak foundation soils.
      11.   Resource areas including:
         a.   Wetland areas.
         b.   Wildlife habitat areas.
         c.   Streams and riparian corridors.
   B.   Area Subject To Landslides, Other Hazards: Where the site is subject to
landslides or other potential hazards, a soils, hydrology, and/or engineering
geologic study based on the proposed project may be required by the city which
shows the analysis that the area can be made suitable for the proposed
development. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-11: GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN:
The grading and drainage plan shall be at the same scale as the site plan and
shall include the following:
   A.   Identification information including the name and address of the owner,
developer, project designer, and the project engineer.
   B.   Drainage patterns and drainage courses on the site and on adjacent
lands.
   C.   The location and extent to which grading will take place indicating
general contour lines, slope ratios, and slope stabilization proposals.
   D.   Certification stamp that the plan has been produced by a professional
engineer registered in Oregon and that such plan conforms to all regulatory
requirements. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-12: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
The landscape plan shall include the following:
   A.   The conceptual location of the underground irrigation system or hose
bibs where applicable.
   B.   The location and height of fences and other buffering or screening
materials.
   C.   The location, species, and function (buffer, shading, cover, etc.) of
existing and proposed plant materials. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
9-16-13: COMMON SPACE:
Where open space or shared use facilities are designated on the plan as common
space, the following applies:
   A.   Indicated On Final Plan And Recorded: The common space area shall be
shown on the final plan and recorded with the city.
   B.   Methods Of Conveyance: The common space shall be conveyed in accordance
with one of the following methods:
      1.   By dedication in perpetuity to the city as publicly owned and
maintained as public open space. Such space proposed for dedication to the city
must be acceptable to the city with regard to the size, shape, location,
improvement, and budgetary and maintenance limitations.
      2.   By leasing or conveying permanent title (including beneficial
ownership) to a corporation, home association, or other legal entity, with the
city retaining the development rights to the property. The terms of such lease
or other instrument of conveyance must include provisions suitable to the city
for guaranteeing the following:
         a.   The continued use of such land for the intended purposes.
         b.   Continuity of property maintenance for open spaces and shared use
facilities, and the availability of funds required for such maintenance.
         c.   Adequate insurance protection and payment of current and future
local government taxes, fees, and assessments.
         d.   Recovery for loss sustained by casualty and condemnation or
otherwise.
         e.   Mandatory responsibility and apportionment of financial
obligations for all original and future property owners in the PUD.
   C.   Recording Of Documents: The following original and executed documents
in a form approved by the city shall be recorded with the final survey if
required by the city: conveyance of title to common spaces; homeowner's
association agreement, articles, bylaws, and certificate of formation with a
state of Oregon seal; and any other such documentation as may be required by
the city to ensure adequate maintenance and financial sustainability of
properties within the PUD. (Ord. 626, 12-18-2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
CHAPTER 17
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; STATE AND UNIFORM CODES
SECTION:
9-17-1: Conformance With State Standards
9-17-2: Compliance Of Construction
9-17-3: Adoption Of Certain Codes
9-17-4: Contract For Building Code Services
9-17-5: Board Of Appeals
9-17-6: Violation; Penalty; Suit Or Action
9-17-1: CONFORMANCE WITH STATE STANDARDS:
   A.   Fire Safety: The policy of the city is that fire safety standards in
the city be as high as the standards of fire safety prescribed by state law.
Notwithstanding any lesser standard of fire safety indicated by a city
ordinance, any standard of fire safety prescribed by Oregon Revised Statutes or
the Oregon administrative rules applies as a city requirement in the same
manner as that standard applies as a state requirement.
   B.   Building Construction: The policy of the city is that the standards of
building construction and related activities in the city be at all times in
compliance with the current Oregon building codes. Notwithstanding any standard
affecting construction contained in a city ordinance, any standard in the
Oregon building codes applies as a city requirement in the same manner as that
standard applies as a state requirement. If a standard established by the city
is in conflict with the state building code, the state standard shall prevail.
(1996 Code § 15.04.010; amd. 2004 Code)
9-17-2: COMPLIANCE OF CONSTRUCTION:
No person may engage in construction or other activity not meeting the state
standards or other requirements of this chapter as the standards provide at the
time of the activity. (1996 Code § 15.04.020)
9-17-3: ADOPTION OF CERTAIN CODES:
The following are adopted:
   A.   Structural Specialty: The state of Oregon structural specialty code and
fire and life safety code; including chapter 70, "Excavation And Grading" of
the appendix to the Oregon building codes. (1996 Code § 15.04.030; amd. 2004
Code)
   B.   Mechanical: The state of Oregon mechanical specialty code and
mechanical fire and life safety code.
   C.   Solar Heating, Cooling And Hot Water: The Oregon code for solar
heating, cooling and hot water systems. (1996 Code § 15.04.030)
   D.   Plumbing: The state building codes for plumbing specialty.
   E.   Mobile Homes And Mobile Home Parks: The state of Oregon regulations and
standards governing the installation, plumbing and electrical hook up and
alteration of mobile homes and construction of mobile home parks.
   F.   Electrical: The state building codes for electrical.
   G.   One- And Two-Family Dwellings: The state building codes for one- and
two-family dwelling specialty.
   H.   Dangerous Buildings: The state building codes for the abatement of
dangerous buildings.
   I.   Housing Code: The state building codes for housing. (1996 Code §
15.04.030; amd. 2004 Code)
9-17-4: CONTRACT FOR BUILDING CODE SERVICES:
The city shall contract for specialty code review, including plan checking with
fire and life safety plan review, permit issuing and inspection for structural,
mechanical and mobile home installation, hook up, alteration and mobile home
park construction. (1996 Code § 15.04.040)
9-17-5: BOARD OF APPEALS:
The city council shall appoint a five (5) member board of appeals as set forth
in the uniform building code, section 204, to serve on any matters as needed,
including Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 447. (1996 Code § 15.04.050)
9-17-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY; SUIT OR ACTION:
   A.   Violation; Penalty Imposed:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter. (1996 Code § 15.04.060)
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation in violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day's violation of any provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense. (1996 Code § 15.04.060; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Suit Or Action: In addition to any penalty for violation of any code
provision in this chapter, the city may institute an appropriate court suit or
action to enjoin the use and/or occupancy, or threatened use and/or occupancy,
of a building or structure until an occupancy permit is approved by the city
and issued by the building official. In such case, the city shall be entitled
to recover from the defendant(s) in such suit or action and in addition to
statutory costs, its reasonable attorney fees to be fixed by the trial court
and such further sum as may be fixed by the appellate court in case of an
appeal. (1996 Code § 15.04.070; amd. 2004 Code)
