DEPOE BAY, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 331-21, passed 12-7-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CITY CHARTER
Section
Preamble: A Charter
Chapter I: Name and Boundaries
   
1.   Title of enactment
   
2.   Name of city
   
3.   Boundaries
Chapter II: Powers
   
4.   Powers of the city
   
5.   Construction of charter
Chapter III: Form of Government
   
6.   Where powers vested
   
7.   Council
   
8.   Councilmen
   
9.   Mayor
   
10.   Other officers
   
11.   Salaries
   
12.   Qualifications of officers
Chapter IV: Council
   
13.   Meetings
   
14.   Quorum
   
15.   Record of proceedings
   
16.   Proceedings to be public
   
17.   Mayor’s functions at Council meetings
   
18.   President of the Council
   
19.   Vote required
Chapter V: Powers and Duties of Officers
   
20.   Mayor
   
21.   Municipal judge
   
22.   Recorder
Chapter VI: Elections
   
23.   Regular elections
   
24.   Notice of regular elections
   
25.   Special elections
   
26.   Regulation of elections
   
27.   Canvass of returns
   
28.   Tie votes
   
29.   Commencement of terms of office
   
30.   Oath of office
   
31.   Nominations
Chapter VII: Vacancies in Office
   
32.   What creates vacancies
   
33.   Filling of vacancies
Chapter VIII: Ordinances
   
34.   Enacting clause
   
34.   Mode of enactment
   
36.   When ordinances take effect
Chapter IX: Public Improvements
   
37.   Condemnation
   
38.   Improvements
   
39.   Special assessments
Chapter X: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
40.   Debt limit
   
41.   Torts
   
42.   Existing ordinances continued
   
43.   Repeal of previously enacted provisions
   
44.   Time of effect of Charter
 
Mayor-Council Form of Government
* * * * *
A CHARTER
To provide for the government of the City of Depoe Bay, Lincoln County, Oregon;
and to repeal all charter provisions of the city enacted prior to the time that
this charter takes effect.
Be it enacted by the people of the City of Depoe Bay, Lincoln County, Oregon:
CHAPTER I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.   TITLE OF ENACTMENT.
This enactment may be referred to as the City Charter of 1976 and as amended by
a ballot measure on May 19, 2015 election, effective July 1, 2015.
Section 2.   NAME OF CITY.
The municipality of Depoe Bay, Lincoln County, Oregon, shall continue to be a
municipal corporation with the name “City of Depoe Bay”.
Section 3.   BOUNDARIES.
The city shall include all territory encompassed by its boundaries as they now
exist or hereafter are modified by voters, by the council, or by any other
agency with the legal power to modify them. The recorder shall keep in his
office, at the city hall, at least two copies of this charter in each of which
he shall maintain an accurate, up-to-date description of the boundaries. The
copies and descriptions shall be available for public inspection at any time
during regular office hours of the recorder.
CHAPTER II
POWERS
Section 4.   POWERS OF THE CITY.
The city shall have all powers which the constitutions, statutes, and common
law of the United States and of this state expressly or impliedly grant or
allow municipalities, as fully as though this charter specifically enumerated
each of those powers.
Section 5.   CONSTRUCTION OF CHARTER.
In this charter, no mention of a particular power shall be construed to be
exclusive or to restrict the scope of the powers which the city would have if
the particular power were not mentioned. The charter shall be liberally
construed to the end that the city may have all powers necessary or convenient
for the conduct of its municipal affairs, including all powers that cities may
assume pursuant to state laws and to the municipal home rule provisions of the
state constitution.
CHAPTER III
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section 6.   WHERE POWERS VESTED.
Except as this charter provides otherwise, all powers of the city shall be
vested in the council.
Section 7.   COUNCIL.
The council shall be composed of a mayor and six councilmen.
Section 8.   COUNCILMEN.
   A.   The term of office of each councilman in office when this Charter is
adopted shall continue until the beginning of the first odd-numbered year after
that time. At the first biennial general election, after the charter is
adopted, six councilmen shall be elected. Of the six, the three receiving the
three highest numbers of votes shall each hold office for four years, and the
three receiving the next three highest numbers of votes shall each hold office
for two years. At each subsequent biennial general election, three councilmen
shall be elected, each for a term of four years, and at each biennial general
election, the number of councilmen to be elected to fill vacancies pursuant to
Section 33 of this charter shall be elected. Councilmen shall serve no more
than two (2) consecutive terms.
   B.   The positions of councilmen shall be numbered in consecutive order.
Each councilman shall be designated by the same position as the councilman whom
he has succeeded or will succeed in office. In all proceedings for the
nomination of candidates for the office of councilman, every petition for
nomination, nominee’s acceptance and certificate of election, ballot, or other
document used in connection with nominations or election for councilman, shall
state the official number of the position as councilman, as herein designated,
to which such candidate aspires, and his name shall appear on the ballot only
for such designated position. An incumbent councilman may not file for
nomination for or election to any councilman’s position except the one he
presently fills. A candidate may not file for more than one numbered position
in any one year nor can he file for another council position in the same year
after withdrawing the original filing.
   C.   The respective candidate for each designated position receiving the
highest number of votes shall be deemed elected to that position.
Section 9.   MAYOR.
At each biennial general election, a mayor shall be elected for a term of two
years. No person shall serve more than three (3) consecutive two-year terms as
mayor.
Section 10.   OTHER OFFICERS.
Additional officers of the city shall be a municipal judge, a recorder, and
such other officers as the council deems necessary. Each of these officers
shall be appointed and may be removed by the mayor with the consent of the
council. The council may combine any two or more appointive city offices. The
council may designate any appointive officer to supervise any other appointive
officer except the municipal judge in the exercise of his judicial functions.
Section 11.   SALARIES.
The amount of compensation for the services of city employees shall be fixed by
the council. No councilman shall receive compensation for serving in that
capacity.
Section 12.   QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS.
No person shall be eligible for an elective office of the city unless at the
time of his election he is a qualified elector within the meaning of the state
constitution and has resided in the city during the twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the election. The council shall be the final judge of the
qualifications and election of its own members.
CHAPTER IV
COUNCIL
Section 13.   MEETINGS.
The council shall hold a regular meeting at least once each month in the city
at a time and at a place which it designates. It shall adopt rules for the
government of its members and proceedings. The mayor upon his own motion may,
or at the request of three members of the council shall, by giving notice
thereof to all members of the council then in the city, call a special meeting
of the council for a time not earlier than twenty-four (24), nor later than
forty-eight (48) hours after the notice is given. Special meetings of the
council may also be held at any time by the common consent of all members of
the council. Twenty-four (24) hours prior to a special meeting a public notice
shall be posted in three places in Depoe Bay, including the Post Office, and
the two nearest radio stations shall be notified. Mention must be made of the
reason for the special meeting, and only such designated business shall be
transacted.
Section 14.   QUORUM.
A majority of members of the council shall constitute a quorum for its
business, but a smaller number may meet and compel the attendance of absent
members in a manner provided by ordinance.
Section 15.   RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
The council shall cause a record of its proceedings to be kept. The ayes and
nays upon any question shall be taken from each councilman and the mayor and
entered in the record.
Section 16.   PROCEEDINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
No action by the council shall have legal effect unless the motion for the
action and the vote by which it is disposed of take place at proceedings open
to the public.
Section 17.   MAYOR’S FUNCTIONS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The mayor shall be chairman of the council and preside over its deliberations.
He shall have a vote on ail questions before it. He shall have the authority to
preserve order, enforce the rules of the council, and determine the order of
business under the rules of the council.
Section 18.   PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
At its first meeting after this charter takes effect and thereafter at its
first meeting of each odd-numbered year, the council by ballot shall elect a
president from its membership. In the mayor’s absence from a council meeting,
the President shall preside over it. Whenever the mayor is unable to perform
the functions of his office, the President shall act as mayor.
Section 19.   VOTE REQUIRED.
Except as this charter otherwise provides, the concurrence of a majority of the
members of the council present at a council meeting shall be necessary to
decide any question before the council.
CHAPTER V
POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
Section 20.   MAYOR.
The mayor shall appoint the committees provided by the rules of the council. He
shall sign all records of proceedings approved by the council. He shall have no
veto power and shall sign all ordinances passed by the council within three (3)
days after their passage. After the council approves a bond of a city officer
or a bond for a license, contract, or proposal, the mayor shall endorse the
bond.
Section 21.   MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
The municipal judge shall be the judicial officer of the city. He shall hold
within the city a court known as the municipal court for the City of Depoe Bay,
Lincoln County, Oregon. The court shall be open for the transaction of judicial
business at times specified by the council. All area within the city shall be
within the territorial jurisdiction of the court. The municipal judge shall
exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction of all offenses defined and made
punishable by ordinances of the city and of all actions brought to recover or
enforce forfeitures or penalties defined or authorized by ordinances of the
city. He shall have authority to issue process for the arrest of any person
accused of an offense against the ordinances of the city, to commit any such
person to jail or admit him to bail pending trial, to issue subpoenas, to
compel witnesses to appear and testify in court on the trial of any cause
before him, to compel obedience to such subpoenas, to issue any process
necessary to carry into effect the judgments of the court, and to punish
witnesses and others for contempt of court. When not governed by ordinances or
this charter, all proceedings in the municipal court for the violation of a
city ordinance shall be governed by the applicable general laws of the state
governing justices of the peace and justice courts. The functions of the
Municipal Judge and Municipal Court may be fulfilled by a State court when so
appointed and designated by the council.
(as Amended June 1, 1982)
Section 22.   RECORDER.
The recorder shall serve ex officio as clerk of the council, attend all its
meetings unless excused therefrom by the council, keep an accurate record of
its proceedings, and sign all orders on the treasury. In the recorder’s absence
from a council meeting, the mayor shall appoint a clerk of the council protem
who, while acting in that capacity, shall have all the authority and duties of
the recorder.
CHAPTER VI
ELECTIONS
Section. 23. REGULAR ELECTIONS.
Regular city elections shall be held at the same times and places as biennial
general state elections, in accordance with applicable state election laws.
Section 24.   NOTICE OF REGULAR ELECTIONS.
The recorder, pursuant to directions from the council, shall give at least ten
(10) days’ notice of each regular city election by posting notice thereof at a
conspicuous place in the city hall and in one public place in each voting
precinct of the city. The notice shall state the officers to be elected, the
ballot title of each measure to be voted upon, and the time and place of the
election.
Section 25.   SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
The council shall provide the time, manner, and means for holding any special
election. The recorder shall give at least ten (10) days’ notice of each
special election in the manner provided by the action of the council ordering
the election.
Any revenue election, such as budget, serial levy, or bonding must be approved
by at least sixty (60) percent of those electors voting. This does not apply to
tax base elections.
Section 26.   REGULATION OF ELECTIONS.
Except as this charter provides otherwise and as the council provides otherwise
by ordinances relation to elections, the general laws of the state shall apply
to the conduct of all city elections, recounts of the returns therefrom, and
contests thereof.
Section 27.   CANVASS OF RETURNS.
In all elections held in conjunction with state and county elections, the state
laws governing the filing of returns by the county clerk shall apply. In each
special city election, the returns therefrom shall be filed with the recorder
on or before noon of the day following, and not later than five (5) days after
the election the council shall meet and canvass the returns. The results of all
elections shall be entered in the record of the proceedings of the council. The
entry shall state the total number of votes cast at the election, the votes
cast for each person and for and against each proposition, the name of each
person elected to office, the office to which he has been elected, and a
reference to each measure enacted or approved. Immediately after the canvass is
completed, the recorder shall make and sign a certificate of election of each
person elected and deliver the certificate to him within one day after the
canvass. A certificate so made and delivered shall be prima facie evidence of
the truth of the statements contained in it.
Section 28.   TIE VOTES.
In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an elective office, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the council.
Section 29.   COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE.
The term of office of a person elected at a regular city election shall
commence the first of the year immediately following the election.
Section 30.   OATH OF OFFICE.
Before entering upon the duties of his office, each officer shall take an oath
or shall affirm that he will support the constitutions and laws of the United
States and of Oregon and that he will faithfully perform the duties of his
office.
Section 31.   NOMINATIONS.
A qualified elector who has resided in the city during the twelve (12) months
immediately preceding an election may be nominated for an elective city office
to be filled at the election. The nomination shall be by a petition that
specifies the office and position sought and shall be in a form prescribed by
the council. The petition shall be signed by not fewer than 20 electors. No
elector shall sign more than one petition for each office to be filled at the
election. If he does so, his signature shall be valid only on the first
sufficient petition filed for the office. The signatures to a nomination
petition need not all be appended to one paper, but to each separate paper of
the petition shall be attached an affidavit of the circulator thereof,
indicating the number of signers of the paper and stating that each signature
appended thereto was made in his presence and is the genuine signature of the
person whose name it purports to be. Opposite each signature shall be stated
the signer’s place of residence, identified by its street and number or other
sufficient designation. All nomination papers comprising a petition shall be
assembled and filed with the recorder as one instrument not earlier than ninety
(90) nor later than thirty (30) days before the election. The recorder shall be
made a record of the exact time at which each petition is filed, and shall take
and preserve the name and address of the person by whom it is filed. If the
petition is not signed by the required number of qualified electors, the
recorder shall notify the candidate and the person who filed the petition
within five (5) days after the filing. If the petition is insufficient in any
other particular, the recorder shall return it immediately to the person who
filed it, certifying in writing wherein the petition is insufficient. The
deficient petition may be amended and filed again as a new petition, or a
substitute petition for the same candidate may be filed, within the regular
time for filing nomination petitions. The recorder shall notify an eligible
person of his nomination, and that person shall file with the recorder his
written acceptance of the nomination, in such form as the council may require,
within five (5) days of notification of nomination. Upon receipt of the
acceptance of the nomination, the recorder shall cause the nominee’s name to be
printed on the ballots. The petition of nomination for a successful candidate
at an election shall be preserved in the office of the recorder until the term
of office for which the candidate is elected expires.
CHAPTER VII
VACANCIES IN OFFICE
Section 32.   WHAT CREATES VACANCIES.
   A.   The office of mayor or councilman shall be deemed vacant upon the
incumbent’s death; adjudicated incompetence; conviction of a felony, other
offense pertaining to his office, or unlawful destruction of public records; or
recall from office.
   B.   The office of mayor or councilman shall also be deemed vacant upon
declaration by the council after the incumbent’s resignation; or ceasing to be
a qualified elector of the city under state law; failure of the person elected
or appointed to the office to qualify therefore within ten (10) days after the
time for his term of office to commence; ceasing to reside in the city; absence
from the city for thirty (30) days without the consent of the council; or
absence from meetings of the council for sixty (60) days without the consent of
the council.
(As amended by Resolution 440 May 2015)
Section 33.   FILLING OF VACANCIES.
Vacant elective offices in the city shall be filled by appointment. A majority
vote of the council shall be required to validate the appointment. The
appointee’s term shall begin immediately upon his appointment and shall
continue until the beginning of the year following the next general biennial
election and until his successor is qualified, and his successor for the
unexpired term shall be chosen at the next general biennial election after the
said appointment. During the temporary disability of any officer or during his
absence temporarily from the city for any cause, his office may be filled
protem in the manner provided for filling vacancies in the office permanently.
CHAPTER VIII
ORDINANCES
Section 34.   ENACTING CLAUSE.
The enacting clause of all ordinances hereafter enacted shall be, “The City of
Depoe Bay ordains as follows:”
Section 34. MODE OF ENACTMENT.
   (1)   Except as the second and third paragraphs of this section provide to
the contrary, every ordinance of the council shall, before being put upon its
final passage, be read fully and distinctly in an open council meeting on two
different days.
   (2)   Except as the third paragraph of this section provides to the
contrary, an ordinance may be enacted at a single meeting of the council by a
unanimous vote of all council members present, upon being read first in full
and then by title.
   (3)   Any of the readings may be by title only if no council member present
at the meeting requests to have the ordinance read in full or if a copy of the
ordinance is provided for each council member and three copies are provided for
public inspection in the office of the city recorder not later than one (1)
week before the first reading of the ordinance and if notice of their
availability is given forthwith upon the filing, by written notice posted at
the city hall and two other public places in the city or by advertisement in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. An ordinance enacted after being
read by title alone may have no legal effect if it differs substantially from
its terms as it was thus filed prior to such reading unless each section
incorporating such a difference is read fully and distinctly in an open council
meeting as finally amended prior to being approved by the council.
   (4)   Upon the final vote on an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the members
shall be taken and entered in the record of proceedings.
   (5)   Upon the enactment of an ordinance the recorder shall sign it with the
date of its passage and his name and title of office, and within three (3) days
thereafter the Mayor shall sign it with the date of his signature, his name,
and the title of his office.
Section 36.   WHEN ORDINANCES TAKE EFFECT.
An ordinance enacted by the council shall take effect on the thirtieth (30th)
day after its enactment. When the council deems it advisable, however, an
ordinance may provide a later time for it to take effect, and in case of an
emergency, it may take effect immediately.
CHAPTER IX
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section 37.   CONDEMNATION.
Any necessity of taking property for the city by condemnation shall be
determined by the council and declared by a resolution of the council
describing the property and stating the uses to which it shall be devoted.
Prior to the commencement of court action for condemnation, forty (40) days
shall be given the public to voice opinions and desires on the issue.
Section 38.   IMPROVEMENTS.
The procedure for making, altering, vacating, or abandoning a public
improvement shall be governed by general ordinance or, to the extent not so
governed, by the applicable general laws of the state. Action on any proposed
public improvement, except a sidewalk or except an improvement unanimously
declared by the council to be needed at once because of an emergency, shall be
suspended for six (6) months upon a remonstrance thereto by the owners of one-
third of the land to be specially assessed, therefore. In this section “owner”
shall mean the record holder of legal title or, where land is being purchased
under a land sale contract recorded or verified to the recorder in writing by
the record holder of legal title to the land, the purchaser shall be deemed the
“owner”.
Section 39.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (1)   The procedure for levying, collecting, and enforcing the payment of
special assessments for public improvements or other services to be charged
against the real property shall be governed by general ordinance.
   (2)   Funds raised from assessments against city water customers shall not
be used for any purpose other than water purposes unless otherwise approved by
the electors.
   (3)   Funds raised from assessments against city sewer customers shall not
be used for any purpose other than sewer purposes unless otherwise approved by
the electors.
CHAPTER X
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 40.   DEBT LIMIT.
Except by consent of the voters, the city’s voluntary floating indebtedness
shall not exceed $000000; nor its bonded indebtedness $000000 at any one time.
For purposes of calculating the limitation, however, the legally authorized
debt of the city in existence at the time this charter takes effect shall not
be considered. All city officials and employees who create or officially
approve any indebtedness in excess of this limitation shall be jointly and
severally liable for the excess.
Section 41.   TORTS.
In no event shall the city be liable in damages for an injury to a person,
damage to property, or death, caused by a defect or a dangerous condition in a
public thoroughfare, site, or facility, unless the city has had actual notice
prior to the injury, damage, or death that the defect or condition existed and
has had a reasonable time thereafter in which to repair or remove it. In no
case shall more than $500 be recovered as damages for an injury, damage, or
death resulting from such a defect or dangerous place. No action shall be
maintained against the city for damages growing out of such injury, damage, or
death unless the claimant first gives written notice to the council within
thirty (30) days after the injury, damage, or death is sustained, stating
specifically the time when, the place where, and the circumstances under which
it was sustained, and that he will claim damages therefore of the city in an
amount which he specifies. But, in no event shall the action be started until
thirty (30) days have elapsed after the presentation of this notice to the
council.
Section 42.   EXISTING ORDINANCES CONTINUED.
All ordinances of the city consistent with this charter and in force when it
takes effect shall remain in effect until amended or repealed.
Section 43.   REPEAL OF PREVIOUSLY ENACTED PROVISIONS.
All charter provisions of the city enacted prior to the time that this charter
takes effect are hereby repealed.
Section 44.   TIME OF EFFECT OF CHARTER.
This charter shall take effect on July 1, 1976.
As Amended June 1, 1982 Chapter V. Section 21
As Amended by May 19, 2015 election, effective July 1, 2015
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Depoe Bay City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal
or state legal holiday.
      CITY. Depoe Bay, Oregon.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Lincoln County, Oregon.
      DAY. Calendar day unless otherwise indicated as business day or working
day.
      GOVERNING BODY. The City Council.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean at least 24-hours notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall take effect as provided in
the Charter.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of such chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to such indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-2-1979; Ord.
185, passed 4-1-1990)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.314
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
CHAPTER 11: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
Section
   
11.01   Purpose
   
11.02   Title
   
11.03   Authorization
   
11.04   Issuance of warnings
   
11.05   Requirement of citations, excluding parking and boating violations;
form and content
   
11.06   Requirement of motor vehicle parking or boating citation; form and
content
   
11.07   Commencement of action for ordinance violations
   
11.08   Service of summons
   
11.09   Minimum requirements for a summons, other than a parking violations or
boating violation summons
   
11.10   Minimum requirements for a parking violation or boating violation
summons
   
11.11   Appearance by defendant
   
11.12   Effect of statement and explanation in mitigation
   
11.13   Fixing hearing dates; notice to defendants
   
11.14   Hearing discretionary with court; exception
   
11.15   Warrant for arrest
   
11.16   Prosecution of ordinance violations
   
11.17   Defense counsel
   
11.18   Hearings procedure
   
11.19   Effect of conviction
   
11.20   Bail
   
11.21   Disposition of fines and bail money received
   
11.22   Designation of district court; designation of district court judge;
amendment of inconsistent prior ordinances and incorporation provision
 
   
11.99   Penalty
§ 11.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the home rule powers of the city and
pursuant to O.R.S. Chapters 92, 221, and 456 for the purpose of providing a
uniform citation and complaint process to be used in enforcing city ordinances.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to and may be cited as the “Depoe Bay
Enforcement Ordinance.”
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.03 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Council shall, by resolution, designate, from time to time, appropriate
persons as enforcement officers for the purpose of implementing this chapter.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.04 ISSUANCE OF WARNINGS.
   The appropriate enforcement officer may issue a warning notice of an alleged
ordinance violation. If issued, such warning notice shall give a brief
description of the violation alleged to exist, and shall be served upon the
person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity accused of the offense. The
warning notice shall further contain the name of the department to contact
regarding the violation, the name of the person issuing the warning notice, the
date the warning was issued, and a statement that failure to correct the
alleged violation or to contact the appropriate department within a specified
time may result in issuance of a citation to the district court.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.05 REQUIREMENT OF CITATIONS, EXCLUDING PARKING AND BOATING VIOLATIONS;
FORM AND CONTENT.
   (A)   A citation conforming to the requirements of this section may be used
for all ordinance violations, excluding motor vehicle parking and boating
violations, which occur within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The citation shall consist of at least four parts. Additional parts
may be inserted for administrative use. The required parts are:
      (1)   Complaint;
      (2)   Appropriate department’s record of violation;
      (3)   Summons; and
      (4)   Return of service.
   (C)   Each of the parts shall contain the following information or blanks in
which such information shall be entered:
      (1)   Name of the court;
      (2)   Name of the defendant cited for violation;
      (3)   The name of the city in whose name the action is brought;
      (4)   Brief description of violation of which the defendant is charged in
such manner as can be readily understood by a person making a reasonable effort
to do so; the date, time and place at which the violation occurred, the date on
which the citation and complaint was issued, and the name of the enforcement
officer issuing the citation;
      (5)   The time, date, and place where the person cited is to appear in
court; and
      (6)   The bail, if any, affixed for the violation by schedule.
   (D)   The complaint shall contain a form of certificate by the enforcement
officer to the effect that the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to
believe, and does believe, that the person cited committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The certification need not be made before a magistrate or any
other person. A certificate conforming to this section shall be deemed
equivalent to a sworn statement.
   (E)   The reverse side of the complaint shall contain the court record and
contain the substance of the matter appearing on the reverse side of all
uniform complaints used in the District court of the county or otherwise
directed by the district court.
   (F)   The summons shall contain a notice to the person that the complaint
will be filed with the district court of the state for the county. The reverse
side of the summons shall contain the following in a form substantially as
follows:
Read Carefully
You have been charged with a violation of a city ordinance. You must do one of
the following:
1.   Appear in court at the time when this summons requires you to appear and
request a hearing. The court will then set a time for a hearing; or
2.   Mail to the court this summons, together with a check or money order in
the amount of the bail indicated on the other side of this summons and tell the
court you request a hearing. This summons and the bail must reach the court
before the time when this summons requires you to appear in court. If you do
not want a hearing, but wish to explain your side, send your explanation with
the summons and bail. The court will then consider your explanation and may
forfeit your bail or part of it, on the basis of your explanation and what the
complaint tells the court; or
3.   Sign the plea of guilty and send this summons to the court, together with
check or money order in the amount of bail indicated on the other side of this
summons. This summons and the bail must reach the court before the time when
this summons requires you to appear in court. Note: if you have already given
bail or other security for your appearance, proceed as mentioned above but do
not send in any additional sum as bail.
   Appearance, Plea of Guilty, and Waiver
I, the undersigned, do hereby enter my appearance on the complaint of the
violation charged on the other side of this summons. I have been informed of my
right to a hearing, that my signature to this plea of guilty will have the same
force and effect as a judgment of court. I do hereby plead guilty to said
violation as charged, waive my right to a hearing by the court, and agree to
pay the penalty prescribed for my violation.
   (Defendant’s Name)
   (Defendant’s Address)
Mail your remittance to:
   Lincoln County District Court
   Lincoln County Courthouse
   225 West Olive
   Newport, Oregon 97365
   Notice
If you fail to comply with these instructions, the court is authorized to issue
a warrant for your arrest.
If you fail to do one of the three foregoing procedures, or fail to appear for
a hearing at the time set by the court, the court is authorized to issue a
warrant for your arrest.
The court may in any case, after notice, require you to appear for a hearing.
   (G)   Any error in transcribing information into the blanks provided in the
citation form when determined by the court to be nonprejudicial to the
defendant’s defense, may be corrected at the time of hearing or prior to time
of hearing with notice being given to the defendant.
   (H)   Except as provided in division (G) above, the complaint shall be set
aside by the court only upon the motion of the defendant before plea, if it
does not conform to the requirements of this section.
   (I)   Nothing contained herein prohibits the court from amending the
citation in its discretion.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.06 REQUIREMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING OR BOATING CITATION; FORM AND
CONTENT.
   (A)   A citation conforming to the requirements of this section may be used
for all motor vehicle parking violations or boating violations which occur
within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The citation shall consist of at least four parts. The required parts
are:
      (1)   Complaint;
      (2)   Appropriate department’s record of violation;
      (3)   Summons; and
      (4)   Return of service.
   (C)   Each of the parts shall contain the following information or blanks in
which such information shall be entered:
      (1)   Name of the court;
      (2)   The date, place, and nature of the charge;
      (3)   The date, time, and place for defendant’s appearance in court;
      (4)   The name of the issuing enforcement officer;
      (5)   The license number of the vehicle or boat, as appropriate, and/or
name of defendant; and
      (6)   The bail, if any, affixed for the violation by schedule.
   (D)   The summons provided for in this section shall either be delivered to
the defendant or placed in a conspicuous place upon the vehicle involved in a
parking violation or upon the boat involved in the boating violation.
   (E)   The complaint shall contain a form of certificate by the enforcement
officer to the effect that the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to
believe, and does believe, that the vehicle or boat, as appropriate, was found
to be in violation of a city motor vehicle parking ordinance or boating
ordinance. The certification need not be made before a magistrate or any other
person. A certificate conforming to this section shall be deemed equivalent to
a sworn statement.
   (F)   The reverse side of the complaint shall contain the court record and
contain the substance of the matter appearing on the reverse side of all
uniform complaints used in the district court of the county or otherwise
directed by the district court.
   (G)   The summons shall contain a notice to the person that the complaint
will be filed with the district court of the state for the county. The reverse
side of the summons shall contain the following in a form substantially as
follows:
Read Carefully
You have been charged with a violation of a city ordinance. You must do one of
the following:
1.   Appear in court at the time when this summons requires you to appear and
request a hearing. The court will then set a time for a hearing; or
2.   Mail to the court this summons, together with a check or money order in
the amount of the bail indicated on the other side of this summons and tell the
court you request a hearing. This summons and the bail must reach the court
before the time when this summons requires you to appear in court. If you do
not want a hearing, but wish to explain your side, send your explanation with
the summons and bail. The court will then consider your explanation and may
forfeit your bail or part of it, on the basis of your explanation and what the
complaint tells the court; or
3.   Sign the plea of guilty and send this summons to the court, together with
check or money order in the amount of bail indicated on the other side of this
summons. This summons and the bail must reach the court before the time when
this summons requires you to appear in court. Note: if you have already given
bail or other security for your appearance, proceed as mentioned above but do
not send in any additional sum as bail.
   Appearance, Plea of Guilty, and Waiver
I, the undersigned, do hereby enter my appearance on the complaint of the
violation charged on the other side of this summons. I have been informed of my
right to a hearing, that my signature to this plea of guilty will have the same
force and effect as a judgment of court. I do hereby plead guilty to said
violation as charged, waive my right to a hearing by the court, and agree to
pay the penalty prescribed for my violation.
   (Defendant’s name)   
   (Defendant’s Address)
Mail your remittance to:
   Lincoln County District Court
   Lincoln County Courthouse
   225 West Olive
   Newport, Oregon 97365
   Notice
If you fail to comply with these instructions, the court is authorized to issue
a warrant for your arrest.
If you fail to do one of the three foregoing procedures, or fail to appear for
a hearing at the time set by the court, the court is authorized to issue a
warrant for your arrest.
The court may in any case, after notice, require you to appear for a hearing.
   (H)   Any error in transcribing information into the blanks provided in the
citation form when determined by the court to be nonprejudicial to the
defendant’s defense, may be corrected at the time of hearing or prior to time
of hearing with notice being given to the defendant.
   (I)   Except as provided in division (H) above, the complaint shall be set
aside by the court only upon the motion of the defendant before plea, if it
does not conform to the requirements of this section.
   (J)   Nothing contained herein prohibits the court from amending the
citation in its discretion.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.07 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   The appropriate enforcement officers may issue a citation for violation of a
city ordinance committed in his or her presence, or upon affidavit of any
person, under penalty of perjury, stating facts therein that a violation of an
ordinance has occurred, and when committed at any location within the
boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.08 SERVICE OF SUMMONS.
   (A)   If a citation is commenced as described in §
11.07 of this chapter, the appropriate enforcement officer shall serve the
summons portion of such citation personally on the person cited; provided,
however, that if the citation is for violation of motor vehicle parking
ordinance, the summons shall be served upon the defendant either by delivering
the summons to the defendant or placing the summons in a conspicuous place upon
the vehicle involved in the violation, and if the citation is for violation of
a boating ordinance, the citation shall be served upon the defendant either by
delivering the citation to the defendant or placing the summons in a
conspicuous place upon the boat involved in the violation.
   (B)   If the defendant cannot be located within the city, the appropriate
enforcement officer or the City Attorney may cause the summons portion of such
citation to be served personally on the person cited by any peace officer in
the state where the defendant may be found.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.09 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR A SUMMONS, OTHER THAN A PARKING VIOLATION OR
BOATING VIOLATION SUMMONS.
   A summons, other than a parking violation or boating violation summons, for
an ordinance violation is sufficient if it contains the following:
   (A)   The name of the court, name of the person cited, date on which the
citation and complaint was issued, name of the enforcement officer issuing the
citation, and the date, time and place at which the person cited is to appear
in court;
   (B)   A brief description or designation of the offense in such a manner
that can be readily understood by a person making a reasonable effort to do so,
and the date, time, and place in which the violation is alleged to have
occurred; and
   (C)   A copy of the complaint as set forth in §
11.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.10 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR A PARKING VIOLATION OR BOATING VIOLATION
SUMMONS.
   A summons for a parking violation or boating violation is sufficient if it
contains the following:
   (A)   The date, place, and nature of the charge;
   (B)   The date, time, and place for defendant’s appearance in court;
   (C)   The name of the enforcement officer issuing the summons;
   (D)   The license number of the vehicle or boat, as appropriate, and/or name
of the defendant;
   (E)   Name of the court; and
   (F)   A copy of the complaint as set forth in §
11.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.11 APPEARANCE BY DEFENDANT.
   The defendant shall either appear in court at the time indicated in the
summons, or prior to such time shall deliver to the court the summons, together
with check or money order in the amount of bail set forth on the summons,
together with:
   (A)   A request for a hearing;
   (B)   A statement of matters and explanation in mitigation of the offense
charged; or
   (C)   The executed appearance, waiver of hearing, and plea of guilty to the
offense appearing on the summons.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.12 EFFECT OF STATEMENT AND EXPLANATION IN MITIGATION.
   If a defendant has submitted to the court a written statement as provided in
§
11.11(B) of this chapter, it shall constitute a waiver of hearing and consent
to judgment by the court declaring a forfeiture of all or any part of the bail
as determined by the court on the basis of such statement of the enforcement
officer or other witness which may be presented to the court.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.13 FIXING HEARING DATES; NOTICE TO DEFENDANTS.
   (A)   If the defendant requests a hearing, pursuant to §§
11.05(F) or (G) of this chapter, and the court directs that a hearing be held,
the court shall fix a date and time for hearing, and unless notice is waived,
shall, at least five days in advance of the hearing, mail to the defendant, a
notice of the date and time so fixed. The notice shall set forth a warning
that, in the event that the defendant fails to appear, the court is authorized
to issue a warrant of arrest.
   (B)   Notice to the defendant required pursuant to division (A) above shall
be made in the form of a court “notice to appear” and be placed in the United
States mail, addressed to the defendant at his or her last known address, with
postage prepaid thereon.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.14 HEARING DISCRETIONARY WITH COURT; EXCEPTION.
   For any ordinance violation for which a citation has been issued, the court
may direct that a hearing be held. Otherwise, the court may enter the
appropriate judgment, impose a fine, direct that the fine be paid out of the
bail deposited by the defendant and return any amount by which the bail exceeds
the fine. No fine may be imposed in excess of the amount of bail deposited by
the defendant unless a hearing is held.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.15 WARRANT FOR ARREST.
   If a person cited fails to comply with the provisions of §§
11.11 of this chapter, as appropriate, and §
11.14 of this chapter, or if he or she fails to appear at any time fixed by the
court, a warrant for his or her arrest may be issued by a judge of the district
court pursuant to O.R.S. 133.060 and 153.200, general law, and the general
authority of the court. No warrant of arrest may be issued pursuant to this
section after a period of 60 days from the date of entry of an order declaring
a forfeiture of bail or other security given by the arrested person. Unless a
warrant has been issued before the expiration of that period, the order of
forfeiture shall be deemed the final disposition of the case.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.16 PROSECUTION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   Upon the complaint of any designated enforcement officer of a violation of
an ordinance, the City Attorney or such attorney as designated by the City
Attorney to prosecute, shall prosecute every case in which it appears that
there has been a violation.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.17 DEFENSE COUNSEL.
   A defendant at a hearing on a violation may be represented by counsel if he
or she so desires; however, defense counsel shall not be provided at public
expense. The court shall ensure that the prosecuting attorney is given timely
notice if defense counsel is to appear at a hearing.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.18 HEARINGS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the criminal procedure
laws of the state relating to a violation as described in O.R.S. 161.505,
161.566, and 161.568 apply with equal force and effect in an ordinance
violation.
   (B)   The hearing on any violation shall be by the court without a jury.
   (C)   The hearing shall not commence until the expiration of seven days from
the date of citation for the violation unless the defendant waives the seven-
day period.
   (D)   The city shall have the burden of proof of the alleged violation by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   (E)   The pretrial discovery rules in O.R.S. 135.805 through 135.873 shall
apply.
   (F)   The defendant may not be required to be a witness in the hearing.
   (G)   Proof of a culpable mental state is not an element of a violation
unless expressly provided in the subject ordinance violated.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.19 EFFECT OF CONVICTION.
   A person who commits a violation shall not suffer any disability or legal
disadvantage based upon conviction of a crime.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.20 BAIL.
   The City Council shall designate by resolution from time to time the
appropriate amount of bail to be scheduled for ordinance violations. Such bail,
once scheduled, shall remain in effect until further action by the City
Council.
 
Harbor ordinance violations                   $50
Overtime parking and other parking violations $10
All other ordinance violations                $500
 
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982; Res. 41, passed 7-7-1982; Res. 43, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 11.21 DISPOSITION OF FINE AND BAIL MONEY RECEIVED.
   In accordance with O.R.S. 221.315, all fines, costs, and forfeited bail
collected by the district court shall be paid as follows:
   (A)   Fifty percent to the City Treasurer; and
   (B)   Prior to January 1, 1983, 50% to the County Treasurer; after January
1, 1983, 50% to the Department of Revenue to be deposited in the general fund
available for general governmental expenses.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.22 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICT COURT; DESIGNATION OF DISTRICT COURT JUDGE;
AMENDMENT OF INCONSISTENT PRIOR ORDINANCES AND INCORPORATION PROVISION.
   (A)   Any existing ordinance of the city or ordinance adopted hereafter
which provides that the prosecution for violation of the subject ordinance
shall be in the municipal court is hereby amended to provide that the
prosecution shall be in the district court of the county.
   (B)   Any existing ordinance of the city or ordinance adopted hereafter
which provides that prosecution of an ordinance violation is to be before the
municipal judge be and is hereby amended to provide that the prosecution is to
be before a district court judge.
   (C)   All ordinances of the city are hereby amended to the extent
inconsistent herewith, and all ordinances adopted hereafter shall be deemed to
incorporate the provisions hereof unless specifically stated therein to the
contrary.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982)
§ 11.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual, firm, or corporation, whether as principal, agent, or
employee violating any provision of existing ordinances shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 for each separate offense.
A failure to comply with any provision of the ordinance from day to day shall
be a separate offense for each such day.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 142, passed 9-19-1988)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES, AND AGENCIES
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   EMPLOYEE POLICIES
      
36.   PLANS, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Workers’ compensation coverage to city volunteers
   
30.02   City elections
§ 30.01 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION COVERAGE TO CITY VOLUNTEERS.
   Pursuant to O.R.S. 656.031, workers’ compensation coverage will be provided
to the classes of volunteer workers listed in the volunteer election form.
   (A)   For all sanctioned city projects an assumed monthly wage of $800 will
be used for public safety volunteers.
   (B)   For all sanctioned city projects, the state minimum wage will be used
for non-public safety volunteers.
   (C)   Non-public safety volunteers will keep track of their hours and have
their payroll reported in the correct class code for the type of work being
performed. A roster of all active volunteers will be kept monthly for reporting
purposes. It is acknowledged that City Insurance Services (CIS) may request
copies of these rosters during year-end audit.
   (D)   An aggregate assumed annual wage of $2,500 will be used per volunteer
board, commission, and Council for the performance of administrative duties.
   (E)   Court-mandated community service workers/inmates on work release will
be covered for workers’ compensation benefits by the sentencing court. A
certificate of coverage for workers’ compensation will be obtained from the
sentencing court prior to work inception.
   (F)   Unanticipated volunteer projects or exposure not addressed in herein
will be added onto the city’s coverage agreement by endorsement, with advance
notice to CIS, and allowing two weeks for processing. It is hereby acknowledged
that coverage of this type cannot be backdated.
(Res. 350, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 30.02 CITY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Regular elections. Regular city elections shall be held at the same
times and places as biennial general state elections, and in accordance with
applicable state and election laws.
   (B)   Notice of regular elections. The City Recorder, pursuant to directions
from the City Council, shall give at least ten days’ notice of each regular
city election by posting notice thereof at a conspicious place in the city hall
and in one public place in each voting precinct of the city. The notice shall
state the officers to be elected, the ballot title of each measure to be voted
upon, and the time and place of the election.
   (C)   Special elections. The City Council shall provide the time, manner,
and means of holding any special election. The Recorder shall give at least
ten’ days notice of each special election in a manner provided by the action of
the City Council ordering the election.
   (D)   Regulation of election. Except as this section provides otherwise and
as the City Council provides otherwise by ordinances relating to elections, the
general laws of the state shall apply to the conduct of all city elections,
recounts of the returns therefrom, and contests thereof.
   (E)   Canvas of returns. In all elections held in conjunction with state and
county elections, the state laws governing the filing of returns by the County
Clerk shall apply. In each special city election, the returns therefrom shall
be filed with the City Recorder on or before 12:00 p.m. of the day following,
and not later than five days after the election the City Council shall meet and
canvas the returns. The results of all elections shall be entered in the record
of the proceedings of the City Council. The entry shall state the number of
votes cast at the election, the votes cast for each person and for and against
each proposition, the name of each person elected to office, the office to
which he or she has been elected, and a reference to each measure enacted or
approved. Immediately after the canvas is completed, the City Recorder shall
make and sign a certificate of election of each person elected and deliver the
certificate to him or her within one day after the canvas. The certificate so
made and delivered shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of the of the
statements contained in it.
   (F)   Tie vote. In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an elective
office, the successful candidate will be determined by a public drawing of lots
in a manner prescribed by the City Council.
   (G)   Initiative and referendum. The City Recorder is hereby directed to
publish a full copy of the ballot to be used on the date of the election in the
News Times, a newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in the
county, at least once not less than seven days immediately proceeding the
election on which the measure is to be voted upon.
(Ord. 17, passed 7-7-1975)
Editor’s note:
   O.R.S. 221.200 specifies city elections fall under O.R.S. Chapters 246
through 260; see O.R.S. 250.035, 250.041, 250.275, 250.285, 254.095, 254.465.
Cities used to b able to conduct their own elections, but that was changed
after 1975 and the county is responsible for all city, county, and district
elections.
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
City Council Rules
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Meeting schedules
   
31.03   Meeting procedures
   
31.04   Filling vacancies
   
31.05   Guidelines and procedures for City Councilors
   
31.06   Public hearing procedure
   
31.07   City advisory position application
Rules of Procedure for Conduct of Hearing Relating
to Land Use Matters
   
31.20   Scope of rules
   
31.21   Nature and general conduct of hearing
   
31.22   Challenge for bias and the like; disqualification
   
31.23   Presiding officer
   
31.24   Burden and nature of proof
   
31.25   Order of procedure
   
31.26   Official notice
   
31.27   Publication of rules
   
31.28   Amendment and suspension of rules
CITY COUNCIL RULES
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   To provide basic City Council procedural rules that are important to
preserve and implement effective city government.
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 31.02 MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Regular City Council meetings. The City Council shall meet at 7:00
p.m. on the first and third Tuesdays of each month in the city hall Council
chambers or at any place that the City Council may direct. On recognized city
holidays which fall on Tuesdays, the City Council shall determine the date,
time, and place of that meeting.
   (B)   Special City Council meetings. The Mayor, or in the Mayor’s absence,
the President of the City Council may call a special meeting of the City
Council. Three Councilors may also call a special meeting by filing a request
with the City Recorder. Notice of a special meeting shall be given to each
member of the City Council at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Notice
may be given in writing, in person, by telephone or by electronic
communication. No business other than that for which a special meeting is
called can be transacted at a special meeting.
   (C)   Executive sessions. An executive session (a meeting closed to the
public) may be held in accordance with the Oregon Public Meetings Law, being
O.R.S. 192.610 to 192.690. The presiding officer may call any regular, special,
or emergency meeting into executive session by citing the specific provision of
O.R.S. 192.660 which authorizes the session. Executive sessions may also be
separately scheduled pursuant to the requirements for special meetings.
      (1)   Attendance at executive sessions. The presiding officer shall
determine which persons other than the City Council shall attend an executive
session.
      (2)   Media attendance. Representatives of the news media shall be
allowed to attend executive sessions except those called pursuant to O.R.S.
192.660(2)(d) (deliberations with persons designated to carry on labor
negotiations). The presiding officer shall instruct any media representatives
present not to disclose the substance of any discussion during executive
session.
      (3)   Final decision prohibited. No final decision shall be made in
executive session. To make a final decision, the presiding officer shall either
call the meeting into open session or place the decision on the agenda of a
future open session.
   (D)   Workshop meetings. Workshop meetings may be scheduled as necessary by
consensus of the Council. Workshop meetings are informal sessions to review
upcoming issues, receive special reports, conduct goal setting sessions, and
for special training purposes.
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 31.03 MEETING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Robert’s Rules of Order.
      (1)   Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised, Tenth Edition, shall be
used as the guideline for conduct of City Council meetings, except in those
cases where specific provisions contrary to Robert’s Rules shall be necessary
and approved by the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council agrees to be clear and simple in its procedures
and considerations of decisions before it. The City Council shall avoid
invoking the finer points of parliamentary rules to obscure issues and arouse
audience suspicion at public meetings and for citizens of the city.
      (3)   When Councilor(s) take issue with an action of the presiding
officer and wish to present a challenge Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised,
Tenth Edition, page 642, lines 10 through 25 will specifically apply in all
relevant situations.
   (B)   Presiding officer. The Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the City
Council President, shall be the presiding officer at all meetings. In the case
of the absence of the Mayor and the City Council President, the City Recorder
shall call the meeting to order and the City Council shall elect a presiding
officer by majority vote. The presiding officer shall conduct all meetings,
preserve order, enforce the rules of the City Council, and determine the order
and length of discussion on any matter before the City Council subject to these
rules. The presiding officer may debate and vote on any issue.
   (C)   Quorum requirements. The presiding officer shall call the meeting to
order at the time designated for a scheduled meeting. Except to adjourn, a
quorum is necessary to conduct business at any meeting of the City Council.
Quorum is defined by charter as a majority of incumbent members of the City
Council.
   (D)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business at City Council meetings shall be as follows:
         (a)   Pledge of allegiance;
         (b)   Call meeting to order and establish a quorum;
         (c)   Approve minutes;
         (d)   Accounts payable;
         (e)   Public input;
         (f)   Unfinished business;
         (g)   New business;
         (h)   Correspondence;
         (i)   Liaison officer’s reports;
         (j)   City staff reports;
         (k)   City Council comments; and
         (l)   Adjourn.
      (2)   The Mayor or presiding officer has authority to adjust the agenda
items and order of business.
   (E)   Public hearings. The presiding officer shall announce prior to each
public hearing the nature of the matter to be heard as it is set forth on the
agenda. The public hearing procedure shall be followed as set forth in §
31.06 of this chapter. The presiding officer may, with the approval of City
Council, limit the time and number of speakers at each public hearing. In such
event, the presiding officer shall announce such restriction prior to beginning
of the hearing.
   (F)   Voting procedures.
      (1)   General. The vote on every motion shall be taken by staggered
rotation roll call and entered in the meeting minutes. Any other questions
before City Council shall not require a recorded vote unless requested by any
City Councilor. A Councilor’s explanation of his or her vote shall not be in
order during a roll call.
      (2)   Duty to vote. Except as otherwise provided by law, every Councilor
when a question is taken shall vote, unless a majority of the City Council for
special reason excuses the Councilor. Any Councilor shall withdraw himself or
herself from the item being voted on should there exist a direct pecuniary
interest in the matter. If a Councilor is not ready to vote, the Councilor may
request additional time to consider his or her response and the City Council
may wait.
      (3)   Reconsideration of actions taken. Any Councilor who voted with the
majority may move for a reconsideration of an action at the same or the next
following regular meeting. Once a matter has been reconsidered at the same
meeting, no motion for further reconsideration shall be made without unanimous
consent of the City Council.
      (4)   Absentee voting. The right to vote is limited to those present at
the time of the vote.
   (G)   Rules of order.
      (1)   Councilor presentations. Every Councilor desiring to speak shall
gain the attention of the presiding officer by raising his or her hand and,
upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine his or her remarks to
the question under debate (except under agenda item “Council comments”). No
Councilor shall speak more than once on the same subject until all Councilors
who wish to speak have had the opportunity to do so. Agenda item “Council
comments” is the time for City Councilors to offer a topic for consideration
for a future City Council agenda or a news item that is outside the Councilor’s
liaison responsibilities. Councilors should state their concern up front,
followed by a brief explanation of why the City Council may want to consider
the topic at a future meeting. Councilors should avoid lengthy commentaries and
avoid personalizing or directing comments towards any individual or defined
group.
      (2)   Questioning of staff. Councilors desiring to question the
administrative staff may direct the inquiry to the presiding officer or to the
person designated by the presiding officer to answer the inquiry during the
City Council meeting.
      (3)   Administrative staff; city employees addressing City Council. City
administrative staff and other city employees desiring to address the City
Council shall first be recognized by the presiding officer and shall address
such remarks to the presiding officer. The staff shall respond to questions or
comments by the City Council or members of the public with permission of the
presiding officer, and shall do so in a polite, tactful manner.
      (4)   Citizen question or discussion.
         (a)   No person shall enter into any discussion without being
recognized by the presiding officer. Any citizen desiring to address the City
Council should come to the designated location to address the City Council and
be recognized by the presiding officer. After being recognized by the presiding
officer, the person shall state his or her name and address for the record and
his or her remarks shall be limited to the question under discussion or agenda
items.
         (b)   Agenda item “public input” provides the opportunity for any
member of the public to speak on any topic that is not on the meeting agenda.
There will be an opportunity to speak on agenda items as the items are
announced. Audience members will be recognized by a show of hand, and will come
forward to the podium, stating name and address for the record. Audience
members are asked to address their comments to the presiding officer, avoid
personalizing or directing comments to any one or more individuals, try to be
succinct, and avoid lengthy commentary. (The City Council guideline for time
limit is five minutes, see division (G)(4)(c) below.) The presiding officer
will not allow any response from City Councilors, except a question may be
asked through the presiding officer, for clarification only.
         (c)   Any citizen addressing the City Council shall be limited to five
minutes unless further time is granted by the presiding officer. No citizen
shall be allowed to speak more than once upon any one subject until every other
citizen choosing to speak has had an opportunity.
         (d)   After a motion has been made, no citizen shall address the City
Council without first securing permission from the majority of the City
Council.
      (5)   Decorum of meeting.
         (a)   Improper conduct. The following items are not condoned by the
City Council and may be cause for the presiding officer to have the person(s)
removed from the City Council chambers:
            1.   Using or making of loud or disruptive language, noise, or
conduct which obstructs the work or the conducting of the business of the City
Council;
            2.   Engaging in violent or distracting action;
            3.   Willful injury of furnishings or of the interior of the City
Council Chambers or other meeting place;
            4.   Refusal to obey any rules of conduct, including the
limitations on occupancy and seating capacity; and
            5.   Refusal to obey an order of the presiding officer or an order
issued by a City Councilor which has been approved by a majority of the
Councilors present.
         (b)   Removal action. The presiding officer shall warn any person(s)
whose conduct is described above before taking action to have such person(s)
removed.
         (c)   Vacating City Council chambers. If a meeting is disrupted by
members of the audience, the presiding officer or a majority of the Councilors
present may call for a recess until order is restored.
         (d)   Picture taking and filming. Filming in the City Council chambers
or other meeting places shall be allowed when permitted by the presiding
officer.
         (e)   Parliamentarian. The parliamentarian shall be designated by the
presiding officer. It is the parliamentarian’s duty to assist the presiding
officer to maintain the order and decorum at all meetings.
   (H)   Seating capacity and safety requirements.
      (1)   The safe occupancy and seating capacity of the City Council
chambers, as determined by the Fire Chief, shall be posted within the City
Council chambers. The limitations on occupancy and seating capacity so
determined and posted shall be complied with at all times.
      (2)   Aisles shall be kept clear at all times. Members of the audience
shall abide by the seating plan in the chambers, and should not move forward of
the seating areas unless wishing to address and be recognized by the presiding
officer.
   (I)   Flags, signs, and posters. No flags, posters, placards, or signs,
unless authorized by the presiding officer, may be carried or placed within the
City Council chambers, any other meeting place, or in any meeting place where a
public hearing is being held. This restriction shall not apply to arm bands,
emblems, badges or other articles worn on personal clothing of individuals,
provided that such devices are of such a size and nature as not to interfere
with the vision or hearing of other persons at the meeting, and providing that
such devices do not extend from the body in a manner likely to cause injury to
another.
   (J)   News media.
      (1)   The City Council recognizes the important role of the news media in
informing the public about the decisions, activities, and priorities of
government. Accommodations shall be made where practical for members of the
press at City Council meetings so that they may observe and hear proceedings
clearly. The terms “news media,” “press,” and “representative of the press” for
the purpose of these rules are interchangeable and mean someone who:
         (a)   Represents an established channel of communication, such as a
newspaper or magazine, radio, or television station; and
         (b)   Regularly reports on the activities of government or the
governing body.
      (2)   Final decisions on the qualifications of an individual as a
representative of the news media shall rest with the City Council.
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 31.04 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy occurring on the City Council, Budget Committee, Planning
Commission, or other city commissions or committees shall be filled as follows.
   (A)   Advisory commissions or committees.
      (1)   When vacancies occur in one of the city commissions or committees,
the City Recorder shall inform the news media of the vacancies and invite all
interested, qualified candidates to file an application form supplied by the
city (see §
31.07 of this subchapter). The City Council may establish a closing date when
applications must be filed with the City Recorder.
      (2)   Candidates for appointment to city commissions or committees shall
be interviewed by the City Council as soon as practical after the closing date
for applications. Interviews shall be scheduled at a City Council meeting and
the City Council shall make its selection to fill the vacancy during the same
meeting. When there is more than one applicant for a single position, and not
all applicants are available for interview at the same meeting, the City
Council shall make its selection at the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting after all interviews have been conducted. In making the selection, each
Councilor shall vote by identified written ballot for one person from the
nominees. The majority of votes cast will select the candidate to fill the
office. In the event that no candidate receives a majority of votes cast, the
voting will continue until there is a majority. In the event of three non-
conclusive rounds of voting without a candidate receiving a majority of votes
cast, the City Council may either continue with the voting or reopen the
process.
   (B)   City Council.
      (1)   When a City Council position becomes vacant, the City Recorder
shall inform the news media of the vacancy and invite applications to be filed
by all interested, qualified candidates. City Council candidates shall be
required to fill out a city application form (see §
31.07 of this subchapter) and file a resume setting forth their background and
a statement of reasons why they desire to be considered for appointment to fill
the vacancy. The City Council shall establish a date when all applications must
be filed with the City Recorder. The filing of an application from any person
eligible for City Council shall be considered as placing that person for
consideration.
      (2)   After the filing date for a vacated City Council position, the City
Council shall direct the City Recorder to set a time for interviews with the
candidates.
      (3)   When the City Council is satisfied that it has concluded the
process of reviewing the qualification of nominees, the Mayor shall declare the
nominations closed. Interviews shall take place with all eligible candidates
and selection shall be determined by a process in which each Councilor votes by
identified written ballot for one person from the nominees. The majority of
votes cast will select the candidate to fill the office. In the event that no
candidate receives a majority of votes cast, the voting will continue until
there is a majority. In the event of three non-conclusive rounds of voting
without a candidate receiving a majority of votes cast, the City Council may
either continue with the voting or reopen the process.
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 31.05 GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR CITY COUNCILORS.
   In support of guidelines and procedures, the Councilor’s reference manual is
available.
   (A)   Agenda items. Any Councilor may have an item placed on the City
Council agenda.
      (1)   Any Councilor may request, if responsible for an agenda item,
postponement of the item to another meeting if the Councilor cannot be present
at the meeting at which time the item is scheduled.
      (2)   Any two Councilors can request that an item be postponed to the
following meeting. Further postponement requires a majority vote of the
Councilors present.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   Any Councilor may attend any meeting at which the City Council is
represented, but only the designated Councilor has the right to vote at
meetings where vote is permissible. If the designate can not attend, a proxy
may be allowed for the attendance of another Councilor.
      (2)   The Mayor’s title should be used when appropriate during meetings
and functions.
      (3)   A Councilor should only speak for himself or herself and not for
other Councilors, unless authorized to do so by the City Council.
      (4)   Councilors should avoid personalizing issues; therefore, discussion
should be issue-oriented.
      (5)   Councilors should not create or infer a change in city policy
before, during, or after consideration of a particular issue unless the
specific issue has been established as policy by vote of the City Council.
      (6)   During public meetings, Councilors should not attempt to edit or
rewrite existing ordinances because of the potential impact on other issues. If
changes are necessary, amendments to an ordinance shall be prepared and
reintroduced.
   (C)   Conflict of interest. Generally, conflicts of interest arise in
situations where a Councilor, as a public official deliberating in a quasi-
judicial proceeding, has an actual or potential financial interest in the
matter before the City Council. Under state law, an actual conflict of interest
is defined as one that would be to the private financial benefit of the
Councilor, a relative, or a business with which the Councilor is associated. A
potential conflict of interest is one that could be to the private financial
benefit of the Councilor, a relative, or a business with which the Councilor is
associated. A relative means the spouse, children, siblings, or parents of the
public official or public official’s spouse. A Councilor must publicly announce
potential and actual conflicts of interest and, in the case of an actual
conflict of interest, must refrain from participating in debate on the issue or
from voting on the issue.
   (D)   Legal advice. Requests to the City Attorney for advice requiring legal
research shall not be made by a Councilor except with the majority approval of
the City Council. Before requesting research or other action by the City
Attorney, the City Council is encouraged to consider consulting with the City
Recorder to ascertain whether the request or action can be accomplished more
cost-effectively by alternate means. Outside a City Council meeting, a
Councilor should make requests of the City Attorney through the City Recorder.
Exceptions to this are issues related to the performance of the City Recorder
and unique and sensitive personnel that involve city business-related requests.
The City Attorney shall in either case provide any written response to the full
City Council and City Recorder.
   (E)   Communication. Communication with staff Councilors shall respect the
separation between policy making and administration by:
      (1)   Attempting to work together with the staff as a team in a spirit of
mutual confidence and support;
      (2)   Not attempting to influence or coerce the City Recorder or
department head concerning personnel, purchasing, awarding of contracts,
selection of consultants, processing of development applications, or the
granting of city licenses and permits;
      (3)   Addressing all formal inquiries and requests for information from
staff to the City Recorder or City Attorney and allowing sufficient time for
response. All written information given by the City Recorder or his or her
designee to one Councilor should be distributed to all Councilors;
      (4)   Limiting individual contacts with city officers and employees so as
not to influence staff decisions or recommendations, to interfere with their
work performance, to undermine the authority of supervisors, or to prevent the
full City Council from having benefit of any information received; and
      (5)   Respecting roles and responsibilities of staff when and if
expressing criticism in a public meeting or through public electronic mail
messages. Staff shall have the same respect for the roles and responsibilities
of City Councilors. All written informational material requested by individual
Councilors will be submitted by staff to the entire City Council with a
notation indicating which Councilor requested the information.
   (F)   Confidentiality. Councilors will keep all written materials provided
to them on matters of confidentiality under law in complete confidence to
ensure that the city’s position is not compromised. No mention of the
information read or heard should be made to anyone other than other Councilors,
city staff, or the City Attorney.
      (1)   If the City Council in executive session provides direction or
consensus to city staff on proposed terms and conditions for any type of
negotiation whether it be related to property acquisition or disposal, pending
or likely claim or litigation, or employee negotiations, all contact with other
parties shall be made by designated staff or representatives handling the
negotiations or litigation. A Councilor will not have any contact or discussion
with any other party or its representative nor communicate any executive
session discussion.
      (2)   All public statements, information, or press releases relating to a
confidential matter will be handled by staff designated by majority of the City
Council.
      (3)   The City Council, by vote, may reprimand a Councilor who discloses
a confidential matter, or take any other appropriate legal action.
   (G)   Expenses and reimbursement. Councilors will follow the same rules and
procedures for reimbursement as those which apply to city employees, as
established by city policy. Councilor expenditures for other than routine
reimbursable expenses (such as, conference registration, travel, and the like)
must require advance City Council approval according to the purchasing rules
which apply city-wide.
      (1)   A Councilor who will be traveling on city business may make his or
her own reservations for travel and lodging in accordance with city policy.
Upon request to the City Recorder, travel accommodations for Councilors will be
made by city staff.
      (2)   The city does not reimburse Councilors for expenses incurred by
their spouses. (Oregon Government Ethics Commission Chapter 199). As provided
in O.R.S. 244.020(7)(b)(F), the expenses offered to and accepted by a public
official may only be accepted by a public official and not relatives or members
of the public official’s household.
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 31.06 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURE.
   These procedures will serve as the guidelines for conducting quasi-judicial
public hearings.
   (A)   Open the hearing with a description of the item. Read the agenda
heading to announce the item.
   (B)   Call for declaration of conflict of interest, ex-parte contact, or
bias. Call for declarations. A party wishing to disqualify a Councilor from a
decision item shall provide written notice to the City Recorder at least 24
hours before the hearing.
   (C)   Read statement of rights and relevance.
      (1)   All testimony or evidence presented toward the request being heard
must be directed toward the relevant criteria contained in the municipal codes,
to other city plans or policies, or to other criteria which a person believes
pertains to the request.
      (2)   For each individual hearing item on the agenda, the applicable
substantive criteria will be read for each request at the time the request is
heard.
      (3)   All persons shall raise issues with sufficient clarity so as to
allow the City Council or others an adequate opportunity to respond to or
resolve the issue.
      (4)   Failure to address a criterion before the close of the hearing
record precludes an appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that
criterion.
      (5)   Failure by the applicant, no later than the close of the hearing
record, to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed
conditions of approval, with sufficient specificity to allow the city to
respond to the issues, will preclude an action for damages based on those
issues in the circuit court. Prior to the close of the evidentiary record of
the hearing, a participant may request an opportunity to present additional
evidence, arguments, or testimony regarding the application. If a participant
requests such an opportunity prior to the close of the evidentiary record, the
City Council may either continue the hearing for at least seven days or leave
the record open for at least seven days to allow the submission of additional
written evidence, arguments, or testimony. Seven days is then allowed for
appeal response to new evidence, arguments, or testimony and seven days shall
be allowed for rebuttal of an appeal (“Three 7s Rule” O.R.S. 197.763(3)(i), (4)
(b), (6)(b), and (6)(e)).
   (D)   Read the right to appeal. An appeal from an action or ruling by the
City Council may be filed with the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA) within 21
days after the date of the City Council’s decision is reduced to writing and
bears the necessary signatures and is mailed or otherwise submitted to parties
entitled to notice according to state law. The appeal will need to comply with
the LUBA appeal procedure and LUBA should be contacted for further information
regarding an appeal. In order to have standing for an appeal, a person must
have been mailed written notice or have participated in writing or in person at
the Planning Commission public hearing or at the City Council public hearing or
have been substantially affected by the action or ruling.
   (E)   Staff report (including the reading of the applicable substantive
criteria).
      (1)   If a large number of people are present to offer testimony, a time
limit may be set on individual testimony.
      (2)   If testimony begins to be repetitive, a show of hands for those
supporting the views being stated may be called to expedite the hearing.
      (3)   In divisions (F) through (K) below, the person presenting the
application, the applicant, may give information regarding the application.
People agreeing with the application, the proponents, may then be heard.
Followed by people objecting to the application, the opponents. People who are
neither for nor against the application, but are other interested parties may
then be heard. And finally, the applicant may speak in rebuttal of any
presented testimony. Direct questions only; no commentary please.
   (F)   Applicant testimony. Please state name and address for the record.
   (G)   Proponent testimony. Please state name and address for the record.
   (H)   Opponent testimony. Please state name and address for the record.
   (I)   Other interested parties. Please state name and address for the
record.
   (J)   Rebuttal by applicant. If new evidence is brought forward in rebuttal
by the applicant, the cycle begins again, giving everyone the opportunity to
respond to the new evidence.
   (K)   Questions by City Council. Questions may be asked by the City Council
of specific individuals. An opportunity will be provided to City Councilors to
ask questions for clarification after each testimony.
   (L)   Close the hearing.
   (M)   Deliberations. The City Council will consider the facts presented at
the hearing, and if additional time is required, set a public meeting date to
announce its findings and decision. No input from the audience will be
accepted.
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
§ 31.07 CITY ADVISORY POSITION APPLICATION.
Position to be filled                         Date of filing          
Name of candidate:                      
Address of candidate:                       Telephone:      
                              Home          
                              Work          
General background:
   Qualifications:             
   Experience:                
Comments of interest:
   Why seeking position:             
   Community involvement:             
(Res. 322, passed 7-2-2003)
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF
HEARING RELATING TO LAND USE MATTERS
§ 31.20 SCOPE OF RULES.
   These rules shall govern the conduct of hearings held by the City Council
and the Planning Commission, hereafter referred to as the deliberating body of
the city, including all hearings and appeals. Any other matters coming before
the deliberating body for hearings may be governed by any or all of these rules
at the discretion of the Councilors or Planning Commissioners, hereinafter
referred to as members.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.21 NATURE AND GENERAL CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   The deliberating body, in conducting a hearing which will result in a
determination as to the permissible use of specific property, is acting in an
administrative, quasi-judicial capacity and all hearings shall be conducted
accordingly. Interested parties are, therefore, entitled to notice of hearing,
if required by the Charter, an ordinance or a statute, an opportunity to be
heard, to present and rebut evidence to a tribunal which is impartial, to have
the proceedings recorded, and to have a decision based on evidence offered
supported by findings of fact as part of that record.
   (B)   No person shall be disorderly, abusive, or disruptive of the orderly
conduct of the hearing.
   (C)   No proponent or opponent shall speak more than once without obtaining
permission from the presiding officer at the first available opportunity.
   (D)   No person shall testify without first receiving recognition from the
presiding officer and stating his or her full name and residence address.
   (E)   No person shall present irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious
testimony or evidence; provided, however, that reports and documents prepared
by the city personnel shall be deemed relevant, material, and competent unless
objected to by any interested party with good cause and at the first available
opportunity.
   (F)   There shall be no audience demonstrations, such as applause cheering,
display, or signs, or other conduct disruptive of the hearing. Such conduct may
be cause for immediate suspension of the hearing by the deliberating body or
the chairperson may have the person or persons causing said disturbance removed
from the hearing room.
   (G)   The presiding officer, members, and with the approval of the presiding
officer, the City Attorney and any other officer or employee of the city may
question and cross-examine any person who testified.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.22 CHALLENGE FOR BIAS, AND THE LIKE; DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   Any proponent or opponent of a proposal to be heard by the members may
challenge the qualification of any member to participate in such hearing and
decision. Such challenge must state facts in writing, by affidavit, relied upon
by the submitting party relating to a member’s bias, prejudgment, personal
interest, or other facts from which the party has concluded that the member
will not participate and make a decision in an impartial manner.
      (1)   Such written challenge must be delivered by personal service to the
City Recorder and the member whose qualification is challenged not less than 48
hours preceding the time set for public hearing.
      (2)   Such challenge shall be incorporated into the record of the
hearing.
   (B)   No member shall participate in discussion of the proposal or vote on
the proposal when:
      (1)   Any of the following has a direct or substantial financial interest
in the proposal: the member or his or her spouse, brother, sister, child,
parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, any business in which he or she is then
serving or has served within the previous two years, or any business with which
he or she is negotiating for or has an arrangement or understanding concerning
prospective partnership or employment;
      (2)   He or she owns property within the area entitled to receive notice
of the public hearing;
      (3)   He or she has a direct personal interest in the proposal; or
      (4)   For any other reason, he or she has determined that he or she
cannot participate in the hearing or decision in an impartial manner.
   (C)   No other officer or employee of the city who has a financial or other
private interest shall participate in discussion with or give an official
opinion to the deliberating body on the proposal without first declaring for
the record the nature and extent of such interest.
   (D)   The general public has a right to have members free from pre-hearing
or ex-parte contacts on matters heard by them. It is recognized that a
countervailing public right is free access to public officials on any matter.
Therefore, members shall reveal any significant pre-hearing ex-parte contacts
with regard to any matter at the commencement of the public hearing on the
matter. If such contacts have impaired his or her impartiality or his or her
ability to vote on the matter, he or she shall so state and shall abstain
therefrom.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other rule, an abstaining
or disqualified member may be counted for purposes of forming a quorum, and a
member may represent himself or herself, a client, or any other member of the
public at a hearing provided he or she:
      (1)   Abstains from the vote on the proposal;
      (2)   Removes himself or herself from the deliberating body and joins the
audience; and
      (3)   Makes a full disclosure of his or her status and position at the
time of addressing the deliberating body.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.23 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor or President of the Planning Commission shall be the
presiding officer at all hearings. In his or her absence, or with the consent,
the deliberating body may designate one of its members, or any other officer,
employee, or person to act as presiding officer at a hearing. A presiding
officer, if not a member, shall have no vote on the question in determination
of the matter.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall have authority to:
      (1)   Regulate the course and decorum of the hearing;
      (2)   Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters;
      (3)   Rule on offers of proof and relevancy of evidence and testimony;
      (4)   Impose reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses heard and
set reasonable time limits for oral presentations, cross-examinations of
witnesses, and rebuttal testimony; and
      (5)   Take such other action authorized by the deliberating body
appropriate for conduct commensurate with the nature of the hearing.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.24 BURDEN AND NATURE OF PROOF.
   (A)   The burden of proof is upon the proponent. The more drastic the change
or the greater the proposal or the greater the impact of the proposal in an
area, the greater is the burden upon the proponent.
   (B)   The requested proposal must be supported by proof that:
      (1)   It conforms to the Comprehensive Plan for the city as now or
hereafter constituted, and any other special plan for the area involved;
      (2)   It conforms to all applicable Charter and ordinance requirements;
      (3)   There is a public need for the proposal;
      (4)   The public need will be best served by granting the proposal (if
the proposal is for a zone change, proof must be submitted that the public need
will be best served by changing the classification of the particular piece of
property in question as compared with other available property); and
      (5)   If other areas have been previously designated for a use or
development submitted in the proposal, there is a necessity for introducing the
proposal into an area not previously contemplated and that the property owners
there should bear the burden, if any, of introducing that proposal into their
area.
   (C)   The following criteria and factors are deemed relevant and material
and shall be considered along with other factors deemed relevant by the
deliberating body in reaching its decision on a proposal:
      (1)   Mistake in the original zoning ordinance;
      (2)   Change of conditions within the immediate neighborhood in which the
use or development is proposed; and
      (3)   All factors pertinent to the preservation and promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare, including but not limited to the
character of the area involved, its peculiar suitability for particular uses,
the conservation of property values, and the direction of building development.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.25 ORDER OF PROCEDURE.
   The presiding officer, in the conduct of the hearing, shall do the
following:
   (A)   Commence the hearing, announce the nature and purpose of the hearing,
and summarize the rules for the conduct of the hearing;
   (B)   Call for abstentions:
      (1)   Inquire of the deliberating body whether any member thereof wishes
to abstain from participation in the hearing. Any member then announcing his or
her abstention shall identify the reasons for abstaining and shall not
participate in discussion of the proposal or vote on the proposal.
      (2)   Any member whose participation has been challenged by allegation of
bias, prejudgment, personal interest, or partiality or who has been subject to
significant ex-parte or prehearing contact with proponents or opponents may
make a statement in response thereto or in explanation thereof, for the record,
and his or her decision to participate in the hearing. This statement shall not
be subject to cross-examination except upon consent of that member, but shall
be subject to rebuttal by the proponent or opponent, as appropriate.
   (C)   Inquire of the audience whether there are any objections to the
jurisdiction of the deliberating body to hear the matter, and if such
objections are received, conduct such further inquiry as necessary to determine
the question. The presiding officer shall terminate the hearing if his or her
inquiry results in substantial evidence that the deliberating body lacks
jurisdiction or the procedural requirements of the ordinance were not met. Any
matter thus terminated shall, if the defect can be remedied, be rescheduled by
the deliberating body;
   (D)   Summarize the nature of the proposal, explain any graphic or pictorial
displays which are a part of the record summarize the staff report, summarize
the findings and decision of the Planning Commission if on appeal to the City
Council, and provide such other information as may be requested by the
deliberating body. The presiding officer may request a representative of the
Community Planning and Development Department or any other city officer or
employee to perform this duty;
   (E)   Determine whether the proponent will conduct his or her case in person
or by representative. The applicant-proponent shall first be heard and persons
in favor of the proponent’s proposal shall next be heard;
   (F)   Allow opponents, upon recognition by the presiding officer, to submit
questions directly to the proponents. Proponents shall be given a reasonable
time to respond solely to these questions;
   (G)   Opponents shall be heard in the following order:
      (1)   Special organizations formed for the purpose of opposition, or
other groups represented by counsel or a spokesperson shall be allowed by the
presiding officer to first respond;
      (2)   Persons who received notice of the hearing or who were entitled to
receive notice of the hearing are presumed to have an interest in the proposal
and shall next be heard; and
      (3)   Persons who did not receive notice and who were not entitled to
notice shall next be heard.
   (H)    Allow proponents, upon recognition of the presiding officer, to
submit questions to opponents who have testified. Opponents shall be given a
reasonable time to respond solely to the questions;
   (I)   Allow representatives of any city, state agency, regional authority,
or municipal or quasi-municipal corporation existing pursuant to law to next be
heard;
   (J)   Allow the proponent to offer rebuttal evidence and testimony; and
   (K)   The presiding officer shall conclude the hearing and thereon the
deliberating body shall deliberate the proposal. The deliberating body shall
either make its decisions and state its findings, which may incorporate
findings proposed by the proponent, opponents, the staff, or may continue its
deliberations to a subsequent meeting, the time and place of which must then be
announced; but shall be within time limits established by ordinance. The
subsequent meeting shall be for the purpose of continued deliberation and shall
not allow for additional submission of testimony, except upon decision of the
deliberating body.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.26 OFFICIAL NOTICE.
   (A)   The deliberating body may take official notice of the following:
      (1)   All facts which are judicially noticeable; and
      (2)   The Charter, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and
official policies (if written) of the city.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall, where practicable, cause to be received
all physical and documentary evidence presented which shall be marked to show
the identity of the person offering the same and whether presented on behalf of
proponent or opponent. Unless evidence is capable of being offered and
incorporated into the record of the case, it shall not be received. All
exhibits received into evidence shall be retained by the city until after any
applicable appeal period has expired, at which time the exhibits may be
released upon written demand to the person identified thereon.
   (C)   Any member of the public shall have access to the record of the
proceedings at reasonable times, places, and circumstances. Any member of the
public shall be entitled to make copies of the record at his or her own
expense.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.27 PUBLICATION OF RULES.
   (A)   These rules shall be:
      (1)   Placed of record with the City Recorder; and
      (2)   Posted within or near the entrance to the city hall, to-wit; the
bulletin board within the entrance to the city hall, and reference shall be
made in all required notices relating to public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of these rules shall be available at all City Council meetings.
A copy shall be available to the public at an amount that shall be set by
resolution by the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   These rules are supplementary to any rules of procedure previously
adopted by the City Council, either by ordinance or resolution for the conduct
of City Council meetings; provided, however, these rules shall control where
there are conflicting provisions.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
§ 31.28 AMENDMENT AND SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   Any rule of procedure not required by law or the Charter may be amended,
suspended, or repealed at any hearing by majority vote of those City Councilors
present and voting.
(Res. 6, passed 9-8-1975)
CHAPTER 32: COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES, AND AGENCIES
Section
   
32.01   Traffic Safety Commission
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Financial Advisory Committee
   
32.04   Clean Water Coordinated Resource Management Planning Committee
   
32.05   Salmon Enhancement Commission
   
32.06   Economic Business Development Committee
   
32.07   Parks Commission
   
32.08   Urban Renewal Agency
Cross-reference:
   Harbor Commission, see
Chapter 92
§ 32.01 TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Creation/membership. The Traffic Safety Commission is hereby
created. The Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed by the
City Council.
      (2)   Term of office. 
         (a)   Except as hereinafter provided for the initial appointment of
the Commission members, the term of office shall be for two years (excluding
the Councilor, whose term shall be at the pleasure of the City Council), or
until a member’s successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of office for
the initial Commission members shall be staggered:
            1.   Two members: two-year term; and
            2.   Two members: one-year term.
         (b)   Councilor; at pleasure of the City Council.
      (3)   Removal from office. Any member of the Commission may be removed by
a majority vote of the City Council at any time without cause. No member shall
miss more than three consecutive meetings.
      (4)   Vacancies in office. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled
by appointment made by the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
      (5)   Oath of office. Members of the Commission shall qualify by taking
and subscribing an oath of office to uphold the Constitution of the United
States and the state and the Charter and ordinances of the city, and to
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office to the best of his
or her ability.
   (B)   Organization of the Commission.
      (1)   President and Vice-President.
         (a)   The Commission shall elect a President and a Vice-President from
its membership, other than the City Councilor. They shall hold office at the
pleasure of the Commission.
         (b)   The President shall preside over all Commission meetings. The
Vice-President shall preside over the meetings in the absence of the President.
The President and/or Vice-President shall perform such other duties on behalf
of the Commission as imposed by the Commission or ordinance.
      (2)   Secretary. The Commission shall elect a secretary, who need not be
a member of the Commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Commission. The secretary shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings of
the Commission and shall perform such other duties as are imposed by the
Commission.
      (3)   Quorum. Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
      (4)   Voting. The concurrence of a majority of the members present at a
Commission meeting shall be necessary to decide any question before the
Commission.
      (5)   Meeting time and place/location of business records. The Commission
shall meet at such times as decided by the Commission from time to time.
         (a)   The regular meeting place of the Commission shall be as
designated by the City Council from time to time.
         (b)   The Council shall designate a place for the transaction of the
business of the Commission and keeping of its records.
      (6)   Commission procedures. The Commission may make, establish, and
alter rules and regulations for its governance and procedure consistent with
the laws of the state and with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
      (7)   Liaison to City Council. The Commission shall elect a liaison
officer, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission. The liaison officer
shall report to the City Council at a regular City Council meeting as is
necessary.
   (C)   General powers and duties.
      (1)   The powers and duties of the Traffic Commission shall be as
follows:
         (a)   To develop and recommend coordinated traffic safety programs;
         (b)   To recommend traffic safety priorities for the city;
         (c)   To review and recommend project applications for funding;
         (d)   To serve in a liaison capacity between the city and the Oregon
Traffic Safety Commission in developing the state-wide highway safety program,
and in meeting the National Highway Safety Program Standards;
         (e)   To act in an advisory capacity to the City Council in the
implementation of official traffic safety activities;
         (f)   To provide research and information to official agencies of the
city;
         (g)   To promote public acceptance of official city traffic programs;
         (h)   To foster public knowledge and support of traffic law
enforcement and traffic engineering programs and needs; and
         (i)   To cooperate with the public and private school systems in
promoting traffic safety education programs.
      (2)   Such other powers and duties set forth by ordinance of the city or
as delegated by the City Council.
   (D)   Reports. The Commission shall submit copies of its minutes to the City
Recorder. Minutes of the Commission shall be available for inspection by
members of the public or City Councilors. At least annually, at such time as
selected by the Commission, or as may be otherwise directed by the City
Council, the Commission shall make and file an annual report of its activities
with the City Council.
   (E)   Compensation. The members of the Commission shall not receive
compensation for their services. Any right of reimbursement for expenses
incurred by the Commission shall be at the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 215, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 267, passed 5-18-2004; Ord. 290, passed 9-20-
2011)
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission is hereby created. The Commission
shall consist of seven members to be appointed by the City Council, not more
than two of whom shall be non-resident property owners of the city. The term of
office of the members shall be four years, or until their successors are
appointed and qualify, and two will expire in the same year. Any vacancy in the
Commission shall be filled by appointment made by the City Council for the
unexpired portion of the term. Members of the Commission shall qualify by
taking and subscribing an oath of office to uphold the Constitutions of the
United States and of the state and to faithfully and impartially perform the
duties of said office to the best of his or her ability. The members of the
Commission shall receive no compensation as such except as hereinafter
provided. No member shall miss more than three consecutive meetings. Missing
more than three consecutive meetings shall constitute nonperformance of duty.
Any member of the Commission may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council, after hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance of duty (O.R.S.
227.030).
   (B)   Organization of the Commission.
      (1)   At the first regular meeting each January, the Commission shall
elect a President and a Vice-President, who shall serve in that capacity for a
one-year term. Any vacancy will be filled by election for the unexpired portion
of the term.
      (2)   The Commission shall elect a secretary, who need not be a member of
the Commission. The secretary shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings
of the Commission and shall perform such duties as are imposed upon him or her
by law, by this section, or by any other ordinance of the city, or by the
Commission. The Commission shall have the power and authority to employ
consulting advice on municipal problems and such clerks as may be necessary,
and to pay for their services or arrange for the payment thereof, and for such
other expenses as the Commission may lawfully incur, including necessary
disbursements incurred by its members in the performance of their duties as
members of said Commission, out of funds at the disbursal of the Commission,
and authorized by the City Council.
      (3)   The Commission shall elect a liaison officer, who shall serve at
the pleasure of the Commission. The liaison officer shall report to the City
Council at a regular City Council meeting as is necessary.
      (4)   Four members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. When a
quorum of the Planning Commission is present, a majority of the quorum present
and voting shall be sufficient to decide any issue or question brought before
the Commission.
      (5)   The Commission shall meet at least once each month, and the regular
meeting place of the Commission shall be at city hall; and the City Council
shall assign an office in city hall for the transaction of the business of the
Commission and the keeping of its records.
      (6)   The Commission may make, establish, and alter rules and regulations
for its government and procedures consistent with the laws of the state and
with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Annual report to City Council. The Planning Commission shall, upon
request of the City Council, on July 1 of each year, make and file with the
City Council a report of all transactions of the Commission for the preceding
year.
   (D)   General powers and duties of the Commission. It shall be the duty of
the Commission, and it shall have the power, except as otherwise provided by
law, to recommend to make suggestions to the City Council and to all other
public authorities concerning the following matters:
      (1)   The laying out, widening, extending, parking, and location of
streets, sidewalks, and boulevards;
      (2)   The relief of traffic congestion;
      (3)   The betterment of housing and sanitation conditions;
      (4)   The establishment of zones or districts limiting the use of
premises and use, height, area, and bulk of buildings and structures;
      (5)   The establishment and alteration from time to time of building
setback lines on private property adjacent to any alley, street, or other
public way;
      (6)   Planning for the regulation of future growth, development, and
edification of the municipality in respect to its public and private buildings
and works, streets, parks, grounds, vacant lots, and plans consistent with the
future growth and development of the city in order to secure to the city and
its inhabitants sanitation, proper services of all public utilities, harbor,
shipping, and transportation facilities;
      (7)   Advertisement of industrial advantages and opportunities of the
municipality and the availability of real estate within the municipality for
industrial settlement;
      (8)   Encouraging industrial settlement within the municipality;
      (9)   Making economic surveys of the present and potential possibilities
of the municipality with a view to ascertaining its industrial needs;
      (10)   Studying the needs of existing local industries with a view to
strengthening and developing the same and stabilizing employment conditions;
      (11)   Performance of all other acts and things necessary or proper to
carry out the provisions of this section; and
      (12)   Unless specifically prohibited by city ordinance, exercising any
and all powers, and performing such duties and functions authorized by state
law, the Charter of the city, this section, or any other ordinances of this
city; and in general to study and propose such measures as may be advisable for
the promotion of the public interest, health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
welfare of said city.
   (E)   Referral of vacation proceedings. Upon receipt of a petition for
vacation pursuant to O.R.S. 271.080 or upon adoption of a motion by the City
Council to initiate vacation proceedings, the City Council shall refer the
vacation petition or motion to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation to the City Council. Upon referral, a public hearing shall be
conducted by the Planning Commission in the same manner as required by the City
Council to consider the vacation proceeding. Notice of the hearing before the
Planning Commission shall be given in the same manner as is required for notice
of public hearing before the City Council. The Planning Commission shall
conduct the public hearing for the vacation proceeding and shall make a
recommendation to the City Council as to whether or not the vacation should be
granted. In making its recommendation, the Commission shall determine whether
or not the public interest shall be prejudiced by the vacation. The City
Council shall conduct a public hearing, consider the Planning Commission
recommendation, and act on the petition or motion pursuant to state law.
   (F)   Planning and zoning matters. Upon any matters initiated by the
Commission on its own motion, and for the handling whereof no particular
procedure is provided, the Commission may hold a hearing at its discretion, at
such time and place as the Commission may select.
   (G)   Time in which Commission must report.
      (1)   Unless the Council definitely names a longer period for the return
of any report required of the Commission under any provision of this section,
on any matter referred to the Commission, the Commission shall return the
report to the Council within 30 days after the receipt of the same in writing
by the secretary.
      (2)   Unless the Commission shall submit a report thereon on or before
the thirtieth day, the Commission will be deemed to have chosen to not act on
any matters so referred at the end of 30 days, provided, that the time within
which the Commission must file a report may be extended by the Council, and
provided further that in connection with petitions for zone changes or
reclassification of any property from one district to another, or petitions
seeking the modification, elimination, or establishment of a setback line, the
Commission shall have such time within which to report as may be required and
necessary in order to permit the Commission to hold the hearings and to give
the notices thereof as are required by this section or any other ordinances of
this city.
   (H)   Review of building permit applications. The City Planner shall review
all building permit applications, including residential, multi-family,
commercial, and industrial buildings, to determine compliance of the
application and the proposed development with the land use regulations of the
city. The City Planner shall provide the required administrative review by the
city for compliance with the city’s land use ordinances and regulations.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing however, at the discretion of the
City Planner, the City Planner may refer any building permit applications to
the Planning Commission for review of the application as to compliance with the
city’s land use ordinances and regulations.
      (2)   Upon such referral by the City Planner to the Planning Commission,
the Commission shall examine the building permit application for compliance
with the standards and criteria of the land use ordinances and regulations.
(The regulations, procedures and criteria for discretionary development
approvals, such as, conditional use, variance, and the like, shall not be
affected by this section.)
(Ord. 259, passed 6-4-2002; Ord. 267, passed 5-18-2004; Ord. 290, passed 9-20-
2011)
§ 32.03 FINANCIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Creation and membership. The Financial Advisory Committee is hereby
created. The Advisory Committee shall consist of five members to be appointed
by the City Council. Of those members appointed, two shall be members of the
City Council and three shall be residents of the city for not less than one
year.
      (2)   Term of office. Except as hereinafter provided for the initial
appointment of the Advisory Committee members, the term of appointment shall be
for two years, or until a member’s successor is appointed and qualified. The
terms of office for the initial Advisory Committee members shall be staggered:
         (a)   Two members: two-year terms;
         (b)   One member: one-year term; and
         (c)   Two members: three-year terms.
      (3)   Removal from office. Any member of the Advisory Committee may be
removed by a majority of the City Council at any time without cause.
      (4)   Vacancies in office. Any vacancy in the Advisory Committee shall be
filled by an appointment made by the City Council for the unexpired portion of
the term.
      (5)   Oath of office. Members of the Advisory Committee shall qualify by
taking and subscribing an oath of office to uphold the Constitution of the
United States and the state, and the Charter and ordinances of the city, to the
best of his or her ability.
      (6)   Compensation of members. The members of the Advisory Committee
shall receive no compensation as such, except as the City Council may approve
reimbursement to Commission member for out-of-pocket expenses.
   (B)   Organization of the advisory committee.
      (1)   Chair and vice-chair. 
         (a)   The Advisory Committee shall elect a chair and a vice-chair from
its membership.
         (b)   The chair shall preside over all advisory committee meetings.
The vice-chair shall preside over the meeting in the absence of the chair. The
chair and or vice-chair shall perform such other duties on behalf of the
advisory committee as imposed by the advisory committee or ordinance.
      (2)   Secretary. The advisory committee shall elect a secretary (the City
Recorder), who shall serve at the pleasure of the advisory committee. The
secretary shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings of the advisory
committee and shall perform such other duties as are imposed by the advisory
committee.
      (3)   Quorum. Three members of the advisory committee shall constitute a
quorum.
      (4)   Voting. The concurrence of a majority of the members present at the
advisory committee meeting shall be necessary to decide any question before the
advisory committee.
      (5)   Meeting time and place, and location of business records. The
advisory committee shall meet at least once each month. The regular meeting
place of the advisory committee shall be at the city hall Council chambers. The
City Recorder shall designate a place for the keeping of the advisory
committee’s records.
      (6)   Advisory committee procedures. The advisory committee may make,
establish, and alter rules and regulations for its governance and procedures
consistent with the laws of the state and with the Charter and ordinances of
the city.
   (C)   Advisory committee powers and duties. The advisory committee shall
have the power and duties as set forth by this section of the city or as
delegated by the City Council. It shall:
      (1)   Monitor adherence to the budget;
      (2)   Set long-range financial goals along with funding strategies to
achieve them;
      (3)   Review multi-year operating budgets that integrate strategic plan
objectives and initiatives;
      (4)   Create, recommend, and update (as necessary) policies that help
ensure the assets of the city are protected;
      (5)   Ensure policies and procedures for financial transactions are
documented in a manual, and the manual is reviewed annually, and updated as
necessary;
      (6)   Ensure approved financial policies and procedures are being
followed;
      (7)   Present all financial goals and proposals to the City Council for
approval;
      (8)   Review the management recommendation letter from the auditor and
ensure follow-up on any issues mentioned; and
      (9)   Provide to the City Council recommendations and findings of the
committee.
(Ord. 322-20, passed 6-16-2020)
§ 32.04 CLEAN WATER COORDINATED RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE.
   The Salmon Enhancement Commission is directed to act as the city’s committee
representative (in advisory capacity only), to the Clean Water Coordinated
Resource Management Planning Committee.
(Res. 113, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 32.05 SALMON ENHANCEMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Creation/membership. The Salmon Enhancement Commission is hereby
created. The Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed by the
City Council, no more than two of whom may be non-residents of the city. One
member of the Commission shall serve as a liaison between the outside agencies
and the Commission and the City Council and the Commission. In addition to the
appointment of the regular members as described in division (A)(1)(a) above,
the City Council shall also appoint two alternate members. The alternate
members may serve if needed to constitute a quorum for any meeting, or if a
quorum of regular members is in attendance, then at the discretion of the
Commission President, the alternate members may serve and vote at such meetings
as if they were regular members.
      (2)   Term of office. Except as hereinafter provided for the initial
appointment of the Commission members, the term of office shall be for four
years, or until a member’s successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of
office for the initial Commission members shall be staggered. The City Council
shall appoint three members to a four-year term, three members to a three-year
term, three members to a two-year term, and one member to a one-year term. All
terms shall expire on December 31 of the last year of the term appointed.
      (3)   Removal from office. Any member of the Commission may be removed by
a majority vote of the City Council at any time without cause. No member shall
miss more than three consecutive meetings.
      (4)   Vacancies in office. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled
by appointment by the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
      (5)   Oath of office. Members of the Commission shall qualify by taking
and subscribing an oath of office to uphold the Constitution of the United
States and the state and the Charter and ordinances of the city, and to
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office to the best of his
or her ability.
      (6)   Compensation of members. The members of the Commission shall
receive no compensation for services. The City Council may approve
reimbursement to Commission members for out-of-pocket expenses.
   (B)   Organization of the Commission.
      (1)   President and Vice-President.
         (a)   The Commission shall elect a President and a Vice-President from
its membership, other than the ex-officio City Councilor. They shall hold
office at the pleasure of the Commission.
         (b)   The President shall preside over all Commission meetings. The
Vice-President shall preside over the meetings in the absence of the President.
The President and/or Vice-President shall perform such other duties on behalf
of the Commission as imposed by the Commission or ordinance.
      (2)   Secretary. The Commission shall elect a secretary, who need not be
a member of the Commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Commission.
         (a)   The secretary shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings
of the Commission and shall perform such other duties as are imposed by the
Commission.
         (b)   The secretary shall not receive any compensation, except if the
secretary is an employee of the city, in which event the secretary shall be
compensated in accordance with the employee’s employment contract.
      (3)   Liaison officer. The Commission shall elect a liaison officer, who
shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission. The liaison officer shall report
to the City Council at a regular Council meeting as is necessary and act a
liaison between the Commission and outside agencies.
      (4)   Quorum. Three voting members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum.
      (5)   Voting. The concurrence of a majority of the members present and
voting at a Commission meeting shall be necessary to decide any question before
the Commission.
      (6)   Meeting time and place/location of business records. The Commission
shall meet at least once each month. The regular meeting place of the
Commission shall be as designated by the City Council from time to time. The
Commission may designate special meeting places from time to time as the need
arises. The Council shall designate a place for the transaction of the business
of the Commission and keeping of its records.
      (7)   Commission procedures. The Commission may make, establish, and
alter rules and regulations for its governance and procedure consistent with
the laws of the state and with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   General powers and duties. The Commission shall have the powers and
duties set forth by ordinance of the city or as delegated by the City Council.
      (2)   Recommendations to city field supervisor. It shall be the duty of
the Commission and it shall have the power, except as otherwise provided by
law, to recommend and make suggestions to the city field supervisor or such
other person as designated by the City Council for the investigation,
promotion, and operation of salmon enhancement practices and facilities.
      (3)   Goals of the Commission. The Salmon Enhancement Commission will
seek to develop and implement programs which will encompass the following
goals.
         (a)   Biological. Protecting and increasing production of salmonids
population in the city harbor water basin.
         (b)   Educational. 
            1.   Encourage maximum public involvement and promote an
understanding and awareness of the interaction between human activities and the
environment and the resultant impact on state fish resources. Particular
emphasis should be placed upon the importance of such resources to the
economic, social, and cultural well-being of the local citizenry.
            2.   Special emphasis should be placed upon the importance of youth
involvement in the planning and implementation processes. Programs should place
strong emphasis upon the involvement of local school and youth groups.
         (c)   Economic. Determine and promote the importance of salmonids
population to the economic well-being of the city and the entire Oregon coast
should be stressed. Where possible, develop programs which increase the
economic impact of salmon in the city and the income of its citizens. Programs
with a demonstrated financial soundness should be developed, with the goal of
producing revenue to the city. A major goal of the Salmon Enhancement
Commission should be to explore the financial and legal feasibility of a
municipally-owned and/or operated “salmon ranch” and assess its full economic
contribution to the city. Such analysis should include both direct and indirect
cost and revenue estimates.
(Ord. 140, passed 5-16-1988; Ord. 196, passed 10-26-1993; Ord. 267, passed 5-
18-2004; Ord. 290, passed 9-20-2011)
§ 32.06 ECONOMIC BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Membership.
         (a)   The Economic Development Committee shall consist of seven
members, not more than two of whom may be non-residents of the city. Members
are as follows:
            1.   One member of the City Council, appointed by the City Council;
            2.   One member of the Planning Commission, appointed by the City
Council;
            3.   One member of the Parks Commission, appointed by the City
Council;
            4.   One member of the Harbor Commission, appointed by the City
Council;
            5.   One member of the Chamber of Commerce, appointed by the
Chamber of Commerce;
            6.   One member that is an owner or general manager of a hotel/
motel business located within the city, appointed by the City Council; and
            7.   One member that is an owner of a business, other than a hotel/
motel, located within the city, appointed by the City Council.
         (b)   The City Councilor who is appointed to the Committee shall be a
full member and entitled to vote on all matters, but may not serve as the chair
of the Committee. When necessary, the City Councilor shall provide a report to
the City Council at a regular City Council meeting.
      (2)   Term of office. The term of office shall be for a period of two
years, or until a member’s successor is appointed and qualified; provided
however, that members appointed by the City Council shall serve at the pleasure
of the City Council.
      (3)   Removal from office. Any member of the Committee may be removed by
a majority vote of the City Council at any time without cause.
         (a)   No member shall miss more than three consecutive meetings.
Should a member miss three consecutive meetings, a report shall be provided to
the City Council.
         (b)   The member shall be removed from the Committee unless the City
Council deems the absences as excused.
      (4)   Vacancies in office. Any vacancy in the Committee membership shall
be filled by appointment of the appointing body for the unexpired portion of
the term.
      (5)   Compensation of members. The members of the Committee shall receive
no compensation for services. The City Council may establish policies with
respect to reimbursement to Committee members for out-of-pocket expenses;
provided however, that until such policies are established, no member of the
Committee shall be entitled to any out of pocket expenses.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   General powers and duties. The Committee shall have the powers and
duties set forth by ordinance or as delegated by the City Council.
      (2)   General purpose. The general purpose of the Committee is to
recommend to the City Council actions to improve and enhance the city’s
economic and esthetic standing and increase tourism and business by
establishing new mechanisms, supporting effective mechanisms already in place,
and suggesting actions for consideration of the City Council.
      (3)   Coordination with other governmental bodies. The Committee will
work closely with the City Council, County Economic Development Committee, and
other economic development committees and agencies when appropriate.
      (4)   Finances. The City Council does not anticipate, at the time of
adoption of this section, any requirement for appropriation of monies to the
Committee for its operation, with the exception that the city may provide a
meeting place and a minimum amount of secretarial support as determined by the
City Recorder. This section does not prohibit, should the City Council so
authorize, the appropriation or expenditure of monies for the operation of the
Committee, provided however, that such authorization is in accordance with
Oregon Local Budget Law, being O.R.S. 294.305 to 294.565.
      (5)   Recommendations to City Council. The sole authority of the
Committee is to make recommendations to the City Council from time to time, in
the Committee’s judgment, which would result in economic development benefit to
the residents or the businesses of the city.
      (6)   Reports to City Council. The Committee shall provide a report on
its activities to the City Council at a minimum on a quarterly basis. The
report is to be presented at the second City Council meeting of the third month
of each calendar quarter (March, June, September, and December).
   (C)   Organization of the Committee.
      (1)   Chair and vice-chair. The Committee shall elect a chair and vice-
chair from its membership, other than the City Councilor appointed to the
Committee. They shall hold office at the pleasure of the Committee. The chair
shall preside over all Committee meetings. The vice-chair shall preside over
the meetings in the absence of the chair. The chair and/or vice-chair shall
perform such other duties on behalf of the Committee as approved by the
Committee or as provide by this section.
      (2)   Minutes. Minutes of Committee meetings shall be taken by city staff
or by a Committee member as the chair may direct. Minutes of the Committee
meetings shall be retained by the city. Any person directed to take minutes of
the meeting shall not be entitled to any compensation except in the event the
person directed is an employee of the city and the City Recorder authorizes the
employee to take the minutes of the Committee meeting.
      (3)   Quorum. A quorum of four members shall be required to conduct
business.
      (4)   Voting. The concurrence of a majority of the members present in
voting at a Committee meeting shall be necessary to decide any question before
the Committee or to make any recommendation of the Committee.
      (5)   Meeting time and place/location of records. The Committee shall
meet monthly at a place and time agreed to by the Committee but in any event
not less than once each month. Special meetings may be called by the chair or
two members of the Committee.
      (6)   Committee procedures. The Committee may make, establish, and alter
rules with respect to the Committee procedure consistent with the laws of the
state and with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 296, passed 6-4-2013; Ord. 299, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 32.07 PARKS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Creation/membership.
         (a)   The Parks Commission is hereby created. The Commission shall
consist of seven members to be appointed by the City Council, not more than two
of whom may be non-residents of the city.
         (b)   In addition to the appointment of the regular members as
described in division (A)(1)(a) above, the City Council shall also appoint two
alternate members. The alternate members may serve if needed to constitute a
quorum for any meeting, or if a quorum of regular members is in attendance,
then at the discretion of the Commission President, the alternate members may
serve and vote at such meetings as if they were regular members.
      (2)   Term of offices. Except as hereinafter provided for the initial
appointment of the Commission members, the term of office shall be for two
years, or until a member’s successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of
office for the initial Commission members (excluding the ex-officio Councilor,
whose term shall be at the pleasure of the Council) shall be staggered:
         (a)   Two members: two-year term;
         (b)   Two members: three-year term; and
         (c)   One member: one-year term.
      (3)   Removal from office. Any member of the Commission may be removed by
a majority vote of the City Council at any time without cause. No member shall
miss more than three consecutive meetings.
      (4)   Vacancies in office. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled
by appointment made by the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
      (5)   Oath of office. Members of the Commission shall qualify by taking
and subscribing an oath of office to uphold the Constitution of the United
States and the state and the Charter and ordinances, and to faithfully and
impartially perform the duties of the office to the best of his or her ability.
      (6)   Compensation of members. The members of the Commission shall
receive no compensation as such, except as the City Council may approve
reimbursement to Commission members for out-of-pocket expenses.
   (B)   Organization of the Commission.
      (1)   President and Vice-President.
         (a)   The Commission shall elect a President and a Vice-President from
its membership, other than the ex-officio City Councilor. They shall hold
office at the pleasure of the Commission.
         (b)   The President shall preside over all Commission meetings. The
Vice-President shall preside over the meetings in the absence of the President.
The President and/or Vice-President shall perform such other duties on behalf
of the Commission as imposed by the Commission or ordinance.
      (2)   Secretary. The Commission shall elect a secretary, who need not be
a member of the Commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Commission. The secretary shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings of
the Commission and shall perform such other duties as are imposed by the
Commission.
      (3)   Liaison to City Council. The Commission shall elect a liaison
officer, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission. The liaison officer
shall report to the City Council as is necessary.
      (4)   Quorum. Three members of the Commission, excluding the City
Councilor, shall constitute a quorum.
      (5)   Voting. The concurrence of a majority of the members present at a
Commission meeting shall be necessary to decide any question before the
Commission.
      (6)   Meeting time and place/location of business records. The Commission
shall meet at least once each month.
         (a)   The regular meeting place of the Commission shall be as
designated by the City Council from time to time.
         (b)   The Council shall designate a place for the transaction of the
business of the Commission and keeping of its records.
      (7)   Commission procedures. The Commission may make, establish, and
alter rules and regulations for its governance and procedure consistent with
the laws of the state and with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   General powers and duties.
      (1)   Generally. The Commission shall have the powers and duties set
forth by ordinance of the city or as delegated by the City Council.
      (2)   Recommendations to city field supervisor. It shall be the duty of
the Commission and it shall have the power, except as otherwise provided by
law, to recommend and make suggestions to the city field supervisor or such
other person as designated by the City Council concerning the following
matters:
         (a)   The formation of rules and regulations for the operation and use
of parks;
         (b)   Planning for future growth, development, and improvement with
respect to parks;
         (c)   To recommend the improvements and maintenance that with regard
to parks; and
         (d)   Recommend proposed leases to the City Council for consideration
and execution.
   (D)   Normal maintenance of parks. The city field supervisor shall supervise
the execution of normal parks maintenance.
(Ord. 206, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 267, passed 5-18-2004; Ord. 290, passed 9-20-
2011)
§ 32.08 URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY.
   (A)   Declaration of blight. Pursuant to O.R.S. 457.035, the Depoe Bay City
Council, hereinafter referred to as City Council, hereby finds and declares
that blighted areas, as defined in O.R.S. 457.010, exist within the city based
upon the findings in division (F) below.
   (B)   Need. The City Council declares and recognizes that there is a need
for an Urban Renewal Agency to function within the city.
   (C)   Powers and limitations. The City Council further declares, pursuant to
O.R.S. 457.045(2), that all of the rights, powers, duties, privileges, and
immunities granted to and vested in an Urban Renewal Agency by the laws of the
state shall be exercised by and vested in the Urban Renewal Agency of the city,
provided, however, that any act of the governing body acting as the Urban
Renewal Agency shall be and shall be considered, the act of the Urban Renewal
Agency only and not of the City Council.
   (D)   Agency title. The corporate name of the agency created by this section
shall be, and said agency shall be known as the Depoe Bay Urban Renewal Agency.
   (E)   Membership. The Depoe Bay Urban Renewal Agency shall be comprised of
nine members, including seven members of the City Council as it lawfully exists
from time to time; and two at-large positions as prescribed in the Agency’s by-
laws.
   (F)   Findings on blighting conditions.
      (1)   The City Council finds that there exist within the city blighting
conditions as described by O.R.S. 457.010(1), and that the City Council is
interested in improving conditions in such areas.
      (2)   The City Council further finds that blighting conditions exist
within an area encompassing the downtown core area of the city, and areas
adjacent and contiguous to the core area. Blighting conditions in this area are
described in an urban renewal feasibility report presented to the City Council
on October 2, 2007. The feasibility report notes the following conditions:
         (a)   Deficiencies in streets, water, sewer, and storm drainage
facilities in the area;
         (b)   A high percentage of properties in the area with low assessed
values, producing low tax revenues for taxing bodies;
         (c)   Evidence of substandard building maintenance in the area;
         (d)   Public facilities, especially port facilities, in need of repair
or replacement; and
         (e)   Hazardous conditions resulting from angle parking on Highway
101.
(Ord. 280, passed 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Sheriff’s office to enforce abandoned vehicle laws
   
33.02   Enforcement officers
§ 33.01 SHERIFF’S OFFICE TO ENFORCE ABANDONED VEHICLE LAWS.
   (A)   In accordance with O.R.S. 819.140(1)(c), the city hereby appoints and
designates the County Sheriff’s office as the city agency with authority to
enforce the abandoned and disabled vehicle laws within the city.
   (B)   The City Recorder or designate shall conduct the process to coordinate
with the Sheriff’s office.
   (C)   Carrying out the stated responsibilities in divisions (A) and (B)
above does not preclude enforcement under any other legal remedy available to
the city.
(Res. 264, passed 4-7-1998)
§ 33.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The following persons, and persons holding positions, are hereby appointed
as enforcement officers of the city for the purpose of implementing and
enforcing the citation and complaint method of enforcement of city ordinances:
   (A)   County Sheriff and Sheriff’s deputies;
   (B)   City field superintendent; and
   (C)   City field supervisor.
(Res. 226, passed 7-1-1996)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Real property claims process deposit/fee
   
34.02   Sale of marijuana tax
   
34.03   Uniform administrative fees
   
34.04   Fixed assets
   
34.05   Rental fees and deposits for city-owned facilities
   
34.06   Enforcement of violators to be reimbursed
Transient Room Tax
   
34.20   Definitions
   
34.21   Tax imposed
   
34.22   Collection of tax by operator; rules for collection
   
34.23   Short-term rental housing platform fees
   
34.24   Exemptions
   
34.25   Registration of operation; form and contents; execution; certification
of authority
   
34.26   Due date; returns and payments
   
34.27   Penalties and interest
   
34.28   Deficiency determinations; fraud; evasion; local tax trustee delay
   
34.29   Redetermination
   
34.30   Security for collection of tax
   
34.31   Lien
   
34.32   Refunds
   
34.33   Liability for tax
   
34.34   Administration
   
34.35   Appeals to City Council
   
34.36   Violations
   
34.37   Schedule of audits
Public Contracting and Purchasing Rules
   
34.50   Introduction
   
34.51   Scope
   
34.52   Authority
   
34.53   Responsibility overview
   
34.54   Purchasing thresholds
   
34.55   Purchasing goods and/or services
   
34.56   Purchasing professional services
   
34.57   Public improvements
   
34.58   Exceptions to competitive procurement requirements
   
Appendix A: Transient lodging tax remittance form
   
Appendix B: Report of gross receipts from transient lodging intermediaries
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 REAL PROPERTY CLAIMS PROCESS DEPOSIT/FEE.
   (A)   The fees and deposit for processing real estate claims under §§
36.30 through
36.38 of this title shall be as set forth below until such time as further
amended by Council resolution.
      (1)   Upon the filing of a real estate claim under §§
36.30 through
36.38 of this title, a claimant shall pay a deposit in an amount that shall be
set by resolution by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   The deposit amount shall be the initial deposit by the applicant
for the purpose of reimbursing the city for costs incurred by the city in
processing the claim. While the application is pending, if it appears to the
City Recorder that the deposit is insufficient to pay for all of the city’s
costs in processing the claim, the City Recorder shall demand such additional
amount of deposit as in the City Recorder’s opinion is necessary to assure
additional funds available to pay anticipated additional costs. The claimant
may appeal the City Recorder’s decision to the City Council. Until such time as
any additional deposit is paid, following demand by the City Recorder, the City
Recorder shall notify the City Council that processing the claim shall be
suspended until such time as the additional deposit is paid to the city.
      (3)   The City Recorder shall establish an appropriate account for the
purpose of holding the deposit until such time as the actual costs to the city
have been ascertained, either upon conclusion of the process or from time to
time, and upon such determination of the actual costs, the City Recorder shall
transfer such portion of the deposit from the account to reimburse the city for
its costs and expenses. Upon conclusion of the processing, and determination of
all actual costs, any remaining deposit shall be reimbursed to the claimant.
   (B)   The costs to the city of processing the claim shall be determined by
application of the rates set forth in §§
36.30 through
36.38 of this title and/or the actual charges to the city by contractors,
including but not limited to, attorneys and appraisers providing services in
processing the claim.
(Res. 345, passed 11-22-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Real property compensation claims process, see §§
36.30 through
36.38
§ 34.02 SALE OF MARIJUANA TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. As described in § 34a of House Bill 3400 (2015), being
O.R.S. 475B.491, the city hereby imposes a tax of 3% on the retail sale price
of marijuana items by a marijuana retailer (also referred to as marijuana
seller) in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MARIJUANA ITEM. The meaning given that term in Oregon Laws 2015, Chapter
614, § 1, being O.R.C. 475B.015; specifically including one or more of the
following items: marijuana, a cannabinoid product, a cannabinoid concentrate,
or cannabinoid extract.
      MARIJUANA RETAILER (MARIJUANA SELLER). Any person who sells marijuana
items to a consumer.
      PERSON. Natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or any
group or combination acting as a unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee of any of them.
      RETAIL SALE. The transfer of goods or services in exchange for any
valuable consideration and does not include the transfer or exchange of goods
or services between a grower or processor and a retailer.
      RETAIL SALE PRICE. The price paid for marijuana items, excluding tax, to
a marijuana retailer or marijuana seller by or on behalf of a consumer of the
marijuana item.
   (C)   Collection. The tax shall be collected at the point of sale of a
marijuana item by a marijuana retailer at the time at which the retail sale
occurs and the tax shall be remitted by each marijuana retailer that engages in
the retail sale of marijuana items.
   (D)   Interest and penalty.
      (1)   Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same
rate established under O.R.S. 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month,
from the time the return to the Oregon Department of Revenue was originally
required to be filed by the marijuana retailer to the time of payment.
      (2)   If a marijuana retailer fails to file a return with the Oregon
Department of Revenue or pay the tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed
upon the marijuana retailer in the same manner and amount provided under O.R.S.
314.400.
      (3)   Every penalty imposed, and any interest that accrues, becomes a
part of the financial obligation required to be paid by the marijuana retailer
and remitted to the Oregon Department of Revenue.
      (4)   Taxes, interest, and penalties transferred to the city by the
Oregon Department of Revenue will be distributed to the city’s general fund.
      (5)   If at any time a marijuana retailer fails to remit any amount owed
in taxes, interest, or penalties, the Oregon Department of Revenue is
authorized to enforce collection on behalf of the city of the owed amount in
accordance with O.R.S. 475B.700 to 475B.755, any agreement between the Oregon
Department of Revenue and the city under O.R.S. 305.620 and any applicable
administrative rules adopted by the Oregon Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 305, passed 7-19-2016; Ord. 311, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 34.03 UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish uniform administrative fees for the
following services provided or costs incurred.
      (1)   Processing fee to handle check (negotiable instrument) returned
from financial institution due to “insufficient funds,” “account closed,” or
any other reason causing the check maker’s check to be dishonored shall be an
amount that shall be set by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Examination and copies of any public record at the request of the
public (this excludes copies provided to Councilors, commission and committee
members, and staff within the scope of their respective duties):
         (a)   File inspection fee;
         (b)   Photocopies; and
         (c)   Tape recordings.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish the administrative fees by resolution
from time to time.
(Ord. 244, passed 1-5-1998; Res. 262, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 34.04 FIXED ASSETS.
   All city departments will maintain an inventory and list of all fixed asset
items of $5,000 or more, and that have a life expectancy of two years or more.
(Res. 502-21, passed 2-2-2021)
§ 34.05 RENTAL FEES AND DEPOSITS FOR CITY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   (A)   There shall be a fee for purchase of a memorial bench, which shall be
set by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   The rental fee for the city park gazebo shall be $75 per day.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rental fee schedule for the community hall,
which shall be set by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   This schedule shall include fees for city residents, nonprofit
organizations, government organizations, and all other individuals and groups.
   (D)   There shall be a rental fee schedule for equipment used off-site,
which shall be set by the City Council from time to time. This schedule shall
include fees for barbeques, tables, chairs, and the like.
   (E)   A deposit is required for all city facility rentals. A deposit is
required for equipment rentals. Deposits may be refunded upon post-rental
inspection and approval by the city.
   (F)   (1)   Fees. There shall be no fee required for use of city-owned
facilities or equipment by the following entities: Depoe Bay Fleet of Flowers,
Depoe Bay Chamber of Commerce, U.S. Coast Guard, Depoe Bay Rural Fire
Protection District, American Red Cross, Neighbors For Kids, Depoe Bay
Neighborhood Watch Groups, Lincoln County Health Department, Treasure Depoe
Bay, and Operation Care Package. Deposits shall be required.
      (2)   Deposit. There shall be no deposit required for use of city-owned
facilities or equipment by the following entities: any unit of government of
the United States, any unit of government of the state, and any unit of
government of any other state of the United States of America.
(Res. 456, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 34.06 ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATORS TO BE REIMBURSED.
   (A)   In case it is necessary for the city to retain the services of an
attorney to enforce the provisions of any of its ordinances heretofore duly
passed and adopted or to enforce the provisions of ordinances hereafter passed
and adopted, then, in that event, the violator of that ordinance shall be
obligated and required to pay to the city the actual cost to the city for
attorney’s fees and any other expenses incurred to enforce the provisions of
the city’s ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In case suit or action is instituted to enforce any of the
provisions of any of the ordinances of the city which now or may hereafter be
in full force and effect, the violator of any of those ordinances shall be
required to pay such sum as the court may adjudge reasonable as attorney’s fees
to be allowed the city in said suit or action and if an appeal is taken from
any judgment or decree of the trial court, the violator will further be
required to pay such sum as the appellate court shall adjudge reasonable as
plaintiff’s attorney’s fees upon such appeal.
      (2)   In all cases the violator will be required to pay in addition to
attorney’s fees, other costs and disbursements of the city incurred in the
enforcement of its ordinances.
(Ord. 10A, passed 1-10-1975)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 34.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING. The operator enters the rent due from a transient on his
or her records when the rent is earned, whether or not it is paid.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE FEES AND CHARGES.
      (1)   If a separate fee is charged for a service and the service is not
optional, or if the value of a service is included in the standard lodging
rate, the amount charged for the service is subject to the lodging tax.
Examples of fees for non-optional services include, but are not limited to,
cleaning service, pet charges, extra bed, service, and processing. Examples of
services that are included in the standard lodging rate include, but are not
limited to, free breakfast and free transportation to the airport.
      (2)   If a separate fee is charged for a service and the service is
optional, that fee is not subject to the state lodging tax. Examples of
optional services include, but are not limited to, pay-per-view movies, room
service, use of an honor bar, or restaurant meals charged to the room.
      (3)   If the provider offers a lodging package that includes something
that is not associated with the actual lodging or is provided by a third party,
only the regular lodging rate that would have been charged, absent the packaged
item, is subject to the state lodging tax. Examples of lodging packages
include, but are not limited to, a night of lodging and a round of golf for
two, or a night of lodging, a bottle of wine, and dinner at a local restaurant.
   CASH ACCOUNTING. The operator does not enter the rent due from a transient
on his or her records until rent is paid.
   FAIR MARKET RENTAL VALUE OF A TIME-SHARE LICENSE UNIT. In relation to the
tax on an owner-occupant of a time-share license project, the average of the
gross daily maintenance fees paid by a time-share license owner attributable to
the time-share license unit occupied.
   HOTEL. Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied,
intended, or designed for transient occupancy for 30 days or less for dwelling
lodging or sleeping purposes and includes any hotel, motel, inn, condominium,
time-share project (as defined by the Zoning Code), tourist home or house,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
public or private dormitory, fraternity, sorority, public or private club, and
also means space and mobile home trailer parks, or a similar structure, space,
or portions thereof so occupied; provided, such occupancy is for less than a
30-day period.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
in transient lodging for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days.
   OCCUPANCY. The right to the use or possession of any space in transient
lodging for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes for less than 30 days.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the hotel in any capacity, and
includes owner’s associations and managing entities of condominiums and time-
share projects, as defined in the Zoning Code. Where the OPERATOR performs his
or her functions through a managing agent of any type or character other than
an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the
purpose of this subchapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities as
his or her principal. Where the OPERATOR is an owner’s association or managing
entity of a condominium or time-share project, then the person designated as a
representative of the association or managing entity pursuant to the Zoning
Code shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this subchapter and
shall have the same duties and liabilities as the association or managing
entity. Compliance with the provision of this subchapter by either the
principal, managing agent, or representative shall be considered to be
compliance by all.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, limited liability
company, corporation, limited liability partnership, association, host, social
club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint-stock company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration paid or payable by an occupant for the occupancy of
space in transient lodging valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property, or
other consideration. If a separate fee is charged for services, goods, or
commodities and the fee is optional, that fee is not included in rent.
   RENT PACKAGE PLAN.
      (1)   All consideration charged against a person, association,
individual, or other entity for any and all occupancy and any and all services,
supplies, and/or goods which are offered to persons, associations, individuals,
or other entities lodging at the hotel, and shall include, but not be limited
to, charges for pets, roll-away beds, meals, or cribs offered due to said
lodging status; provided, however, that a reasonable amount may be deducted
from the rent package price for the price of any meals included within the rent
package. The “meal allowance” portion of the rent package price shall be not
greater than the reasonable and customary price such a meal would be charged in
restaurants within the community.
      (2)   No tax shall be imposed upon the “meal allowance” portion of the
rent package price.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM. A business or other person that
facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging by connecting occupants with
transient lodging providers, either online or in any other manner. SHORT-TERM
RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORMS are transient lodging intermediaries.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL, VACATION RENTAL DWELLING. A house, duplex, multi-plex,
apartment, condominium, houseboat, trailer, or other residential dwelling unit
where a person rents a guest bedroom or the entire residential dwelling unit
for transient lodging occupancy. SHORT-TERM RENTAL in the city is allowed in:
Retail Commercial (C-l), Light Industrial (L-l), North Coast Avenue Limited
Land Use (NCA), and Planned Development Zones (P-D) with defined restricted
uses. SHORT-TERM RENTALS are not allowed in residential zoning (R-l, R-2, R-3,
R-4, R-5) as of 2020. Additional information on Zoning Ordinances and allowed
uses can be found in Ordinance 24, Ordinance 234, Ordinance 310, and Ordinance
323.
   TAX. Either the tax payable by the transient or the aggregate amount of
taxes due from an operator during the period for which he or she is required to
report his or her collection.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Recorder of the city or his or her designee.
   TIME-SHARE ESTATE. The right to occupy an accommodation during five or more
separated time-share periods over a period of at least five years, including
renewal options, coupled with a freehold estate or an estate for years in the
time-share property.
   TIME-SHARE LICENSE. The right to occupy an accommodation during five or more
separated time-share periods over a period of more than three years, including
renewal options, not coupled with a freehold estate or an estate for years in
the time-share property.
   TIME-SHARE PERIOD. A consecutive period of time where a person who owns a
time-share license has the right to occupy the time-share estate.
   TLT or TAX. The transient lodging tax.
   TRANSIENT. Any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy in a hotel for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. The day a transient checks out
of the hotel shall not be included in determinating the 30-day period if the
TRANSIENT is not charged rent for that day by the operator. Any such individual
so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a TRANSIENT until the
period of 30 days has expired, unless there is an agreement in writing between
the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy, or
the tenancy actually extends more than 30 consecutive days. In determining
whether a person is a TRANSIENT, uninterrupted periods of time, extending both
prior and subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter may be
considered. A person who pays for lodging on a monthly basis, irrespective of
the number of days in such month, shall not be deemed a TRANSIENT. An owner of
a condominium unit who is required to pay any consideration for the use of the
unit shall be deemed a TRANSIENT.
   TRANSIENT LODGING INTERMEDIARY. A person other than a transient lodging
provider that facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging and:
      (1)   Charges for occupancy of the transient lodging;
      (2)   Collects the consideration charged for occupancy of the transient
lodging; or
      (3)   Receives a fee or commission and requires the transient lodging
provider to use a specified third-party entity to collect the consideration
charged for occupancy of the transient lodging.
   TRANSIENT LODGING, TRANSIENT LODGING FACILITIES, TOURIST ACCOMMODATION.
      (1)   (a)   Hotel, motel, and inn dwelling units that are used for
temporary overnight human occupancy;
         (b)   Spaces used for overnight parking of recreational vehicles or
placement of tents during periods of human occupancy; or
         (c)   Houses, cabins, condominiums, apartment units, or other dwelling
units, or portions of any of these dwelling units that are used for temporary
human occupancy.
      (2)   Tourist Accommodations in the city are allowed in Retail Commercial
(C-l), Light Industrial (L-l), and Planned Development Zones (P-D) with defined
restricted uses. Additional information on Zoning Ordinances and allowed uses
can be found in Ordinance 24, Ordinance 234, Ordinance 310, and Ordinance 323.
   TRANSIENT LODGING PROVIDER. A person that furnishes transient lodging.
   TRANSIENT LODGING TAX COLLECTOR. A transient lodging provider or transient
lodging intermediary.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 131, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 195, passed 10-18-
1993; Ord. 250, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.21 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Effective October 1, 2021, each occupant shall pay a TLT in the amount
of 12% of the rent. The occupant shall pay the TLT with the rent to the
transient lodging tax collector. TLT amounts shall be rounded down to the
nearest cent. The transient lodging tax collector shall maintain records of all
rent charged and TLT payments received. If a person collects payment from
lodging customers, said person is responsible for collecting and remitting the
tax and filing a return. Beginning January 1, 2020, the tax is due when the
occupancy of the transient lodging ends. Bills, receipts, or invoices provided
to occupants shall list the TLT separately and must accurately state the amount
of tax. All amounts listed as TLT on invoices, bills, or receipts must be
reported as TLT and, after collection, must be turned over to the city, less
the 5% administrative charge. For the privilege of occupancy in any time-share
license project where the occupant is the owner of the time-share license or
the owner’s spouse, children, or guest, the occupant shall pay a tax for each
night of occupancy equal to 12% of the daily average fair market rental value
of the time-share license unit occupied.
   (B)   The operator of a time-share license project shall provide to the Tax
Administrator before January 15 of each calendar year a schedule of the gross
daily maintenance fees for the then-current calendar year and a calculation of
the average of such fees attributable to each type of unit.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 141, passed 5-16-1988; Ord. 241, passed 9-2-
1997; Ord. 250, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 262, passed 6-3-2003; Ord. 313, passed 7-
5-2017; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.22 COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR; RULES FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Every transient lodging tax collector shall collect the TLT at
the time rent is paid, unless an exemption applies. If payment is by credit
card, for purposes of this section, payment is made at the time credit card
information is provided to the transient lodging tax collector, not when the
transient lodging tax collector ultimately receives credit for the transaction.
      (2)   While holding the payment in trust for the city, a transient
lodging tax collector may commingle the tax proceeds with the transient lodging
tax collector’s funds, but the transient lodging tax collector is not the owner
of tax proceeds, except that, when a return is filed, the transient lodging tax
collector becomes the owner of the administrative fee authorized to be
retained. Transient lodging tax collectors may choose to file returns and remit
payments based on amounts accrued, but not yet collected. The transient lodging
tax collector is liable for any TLT that should have been collected from the
occupant, except in cases of nonpayment of rent by the occupant.
   (B)   Upon request of the city, transient lodging tax collectors must
provide all physical addresses of transient lodging facilities within the city
limits and the related contact information, including the name and mailing
address, of the general manager, agent, owner, host, or other responsible
person for the location.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.23 SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM FEES.
   A hosting platform for short-term rentals may collect a fee for booking
services in connection with short-term rentals only when those short-term
rentals are lawfully registered as operators with the city and possess a
certificate of authority at the time the short-term rental is occupied.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   No TLT imposed under this subchapter shall be imposed upon:
   (A)   A dwelling unit in a hospital, health care facility, long-term care
facility, or any other residential facility that is licensed, registered, or
certified by the State Department of Human Services or the State Health
Authority;
   (B)   A dwelling unit in a facility providing treatment for drug or alcohol
abuse or providing mental health treatment;
   (C)   A dwelling unit at a nonprofit youth or church camp, nonprofit
conference center, or another nonprofit facility;
   (D)   A dwelling unit that is leased or otherwise occupied by the same
person for a consecutive period of 30 days or more during the year. This
exemption only applies to the person who is actually occupying the dwelling for
the consecutive period of 30 days and does not extend to others who would
occupy that property outside of that consecutive period, unless he or she also
occupies the dwelling unit for a consecutive period of 30 days. The
requirements of this subsection are satisfied even if the physical dwelling
unit changes during the consecutive period, if:
      (1)   All dwelling units occupied are within the same facility; and
      (2)   The person paying consideration for the transient lodging is the
same person throughout the consecutive period.
   (E)   Any occupant of a time-share project or condominium who is the owner,
spouse, or children of the owner, or guest of the owner of a time-share estate
project interest or condominium, but shall not include persons occupying the
time-share estate project or condominium unit by reason of rental at the time-
share estate project or condominium.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 131, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 195, passed 10-18-
1993; Ord. 250, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.25 REGISTRATION OF OPERATION; FORM AND CONTENTS; EXECUTION; CERTIFICATION
OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every person engaging or about to engage in business as a transient
lodging provider shall provide a completed registration form to the Tax
Administrator within 15 calendar days after commencing business. The
registration form shall require the transient lodging provider to provide the
name of the business, any separate business addresses, and other information as
the Tax Administrator may require to implement this subchapter. Transient
lodging providers who own or operate transient lodging facilities in the city
shall provide the address of the lodging facility. The registration form shall
be signed by the transient lodging provider. The Tax Administrator shall,
within 15 days after registration, issue, without charge, a certificate of
authority to collect the TLT. The transient lodging provider’s obligation to
collect the TLT is imposed once rent for transient lodging is paid, even if the
registration form has not been filed or if the certificate has not been issued.
If the rent transaction is facilitated online, the certificate of authority
must be able to be viewed by the occupant by clicking on a link to the
certificate of authority at a reasonable place during the payment transaction.
   (B)   Certificates shall be non-assignable and non-transferable and shall be
surrendered to the Tax Administrator when the business is sold or transferred
or when a transient lodging facility ceases to operate at the location
specified in the registration form. Each certificate issued to a transient
lodging provider for a specific lodging facility shall be prominently displayed
at the lodging facility and include:
      (1)   The name of the transient lodging provider;
      (2)   The address of the transient lodging facility;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   The certificate number, as assigned by the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.26 DUE DATE; RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Transient lodging tax collectors must submit a completed tax return
form to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the month following
the end of each calendar quarter, reporting the amount of tax due during the
quarter and accompanied by remittance of all tax collected, less a 5%
administration fee.
      (1)   First quarter: January, February, and March;
      (2)   Second quarter: April, May, and June;
      (3)   Third quarter: July, August, and September; and
      (4)   Fourth quarter: October, November, and December.
   (B)   The transient lodging tax collector is entitled to the administration
fee. If a transient lodging facility has multiple owners, they are not entitled
to retain additional fees.
   (C)   Remittances are delinquent if not made by the last day of the month in
which they are due.
   (D)   Returns shall show the gross rents collected, taxable rents, the total
amount of TLT collected, and the amount of the administrative fee retained by
the transient lodging tax collector. Returns shall also show the exempt and
excluded rents and the basis for exemptions and exclusions.
   (E)   Tax returns and remittances may be submitted in person or by mail. If
the return and remittance are mailed, the postmark shall be considered the date
of delivery.
   (F)   (1)   The Tax Administrator may extend the time for making any return
or remittance of the tax by up to 30 days. No further extension shall be
granted, except by the City Council. Any transient lodging tax collector to
whom an extension is granted shall pay interest at the rate of 5% per month on
the amount of the remittance due without proration for a fraction of a month.
      (2)   If a return is not filed, and the remittance and interest due are
not paid by the end of the extension granted, then the interest shall become a
part of the tax for computation of penalties.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 106, passed 6-28-1983; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-
21-2021)
§ 34.27 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same rate
established under O.R.S. 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month, from
the time the return to the Tax Administrator was originally required to be
filed to the time of payment.
   (B)   If a transient lodging tax collector fails to file a return or pay the
tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed in the same manner and amount
provided under O.R.S. 314.400. Every penalty imposed, and any interest that
accrues becomes a part of the financial obligation required to be paid and
remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (C)   Taxes, interest, and penalties paid to the Tax Administrator under
this section shall be distributed to the city’s Transient Room Tax Fund.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.28 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS; FRAUD; EVASION; LOCAL TAX TRUSTEE DELAY.
   (A)   Deficiency determinations. The Tax Administrator may review tax
returns and adjust the amount due based on the information in the return, on
information obtained during a review or audit of records, or on the basis of
other evidence. In the event of a deficiency, the Tax Administrator shall
provide notice of the deficiency to the transient lodging tax collector, who
shall remit deficiencies within 10 business days of the deficiency notice.
Notice may be by personal delivery or certified or registered mail.
      (1)   In reviewing and adjusting tax returns, the Tax Administrator shall
offset any amount received in excess of the remittances due against any
shortages in remittances.
      (2)   Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade the TLT, a notice of
deficiency determinations shall be issued within three years of the period for
which the deficiency determination is made.
      (3)   The time to remit deficient payment amounts under this section
shall be extended if the local tax trustee timely requests a redetermination.
   (B)   Fraud, refusal to collect, or evasion. If any transient lodging tax
collector fails to collect, report, or remit the tax as required, submits a
fraudulent return, or otherwise violates or attempts to violate this
subchapter, the Tax Administrator shall estimate the tax due, calculate the
amount owing from the transient lodging tax collector for tax remittance,
interest, and penalties, and provide notice to the transient lodging tax
collector of the assessment. The determination and notice shall be made and
mailed within three years of the discovery by the Tax Administrator of the
violation. The determination is due and payable upon receipt of notice and
shall become final 10 business days after the date notice was delivered if no
petition for redetermination is filed.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.29 REDETERMINATION.
   (A)   Any person affected by a deficiency determination may file a petition
for redetermination with the Tax Administrator within 10 business days of
service of notice of the tax deficiency. A determination becomes final if a
petition for redetermination is not timely filed.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination and refund is filed within the
allowable period, the Tax Administrator shall reconsider the determination and
grant an oral hearing, if requested. The petitioner shall be allowed at least
20 business days to prepare for the hearing.
   (C)   After considering the petition and all available information, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a redetermination decision and mail the decision to
the petitioner. During the redetermination process, the Tax Administrator may
agree to a compromise of the amount due if there is a good faith dispute over
the amount owing.
   (D)   The decision of the Tax Administrator on redetermination becomes final
and payment is due 10 business days after the decision is mailed unless the
petitioner files an appeal to the City Council within that time. The appeal
shall be filed with the Tax Administrator. The City Council’s decision shall be
final when reduced to writing and mailed to the petitioner, and all amounts due
must be paid within 10 business days of the mailing of the City Council
decision.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.30 SECURITY FOR COLLECTION OF TAX.
   The city may bring legal action to collect on any amounts owed to the city
under this chapter within three years after remittance is due to the city or
within three years after any determination becomes final. The city is entitled
to collect reasonable attorneys’ fees in any legal action brought to collect an
amount owed to the city under this subchapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.31 LIEN.
   The city may record a lien in the city’s lien docket against any real
property owned by a transient lodging provider who receives any portion of the
rent from a transient lodging facility located within the city as to any
delinquent remittances by the transient lodging provider.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 167, passed 7-1-1991; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-
2021)
§ 34.32 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Refunds by the city to the transient tax collector. If the transient
lodging tax collector remits more tax, penalty, or interest than is due, the
transient lodging tax collector may file a claim in writing stating the facts
relating to the claim, within three years from the date of remittance. If the
claim is approved by the Tax Administrator, the excess amount shall be either
refunded or credited on any amount due from the transient lodging tax
collector.
   (B)   Refunds by city to occupant. A transient lodging tax collector may
file a claim for a refund by filing a claim in writing within three years of
payment providing the facts relating to the claim for refund. If the Tax
Administrator determines that the tax was collected and remitted to the city
and the occupant was not required to pay the tax or overpaid, the city shall
issue a refund to the occupant.
   (C)   Refunds by transient lodging tax collector to occupant. If an occupant
has paid tax to a transient lodging tax collector but stays a total of 30 or
more consecutive days in the same transient lodging facility, the transient
lodging tax collector shall refund to the occupant any tax collected for any
portion of the continuous stay. The transient lodging tax collector shall
account for the collection and refund to the Tax Administrator. If the
transient lodging tax collector has remitted the tax prior to the refund or
credit to the occupant, the transient lodging tax collector shall be entitled
to a corresponding refund or offset if the claim for refund is filed within
three years from the date of collection.
   (D)   Burden of proof. The person claiming the refund shall have the burden
of proving the facts that establish the basis for the refund.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.33 LIABILITY FOR TAX.
   Transient lodging providers who receive any portion of the rent for
transient lodging and transient lodging intermediaries that provide booking
service are both transient lodging tax collectors and are jointly and severally
liable for the tax.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 141, passed 5-16-1988; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-
21-2021)
§ 34.34 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Fund distribution. Eight percent of the 12% shall be split with 1%
going to public safety/law enforcement, and the 7% to the General Fund. The
revenue generated after the 8% (4%) shall have a 70/30 split. 70% of the 4% tax
funds shall be used in the budget for tourism purposes consistent with state
law, and 30% of the 4% generated shall go into the General Fund to be used for
city services.
   (B)   Records required from local tax trustee. Every local tax trustee shall
keep records of each transaction involving rent and/or collection of TLT. All
records shall be retained for at least three years and six months.
   (C)   Examination of records; investigations. The Tax Administrator or agent
may examine all records of a local tax trustee relating to the receipt of rent
and TLT and remittance of tax during normal business hours and may obtain
copies of the records to audit returns.
   (D)   Authority of the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall have
the power to enforce this chapter, conduct audits, and adopt rules,
regulations, and forms consistent with this chapter. Rules and regulations of
general application shall be mailed to all registered transient lodging
providers. The Tax Administrator may also issue written interpretations on the
request of a transient lodging tax collector. As to the transient lodging tax
collector to whom the interpretation is issued, the city will act consistently
with the interpretation until it is withdrawn, and the city shall provide 30
days’ written notice of withdrawal of an interpretation.
   (E)   Confidential character of information obtained ; disclosure unlawful.
The city shall maintain the confidentiality of information provided by a
transient lodging tax collector. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent:
      (1)   The disclosure to or the examination of records and equipment by
another city official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this subchapter, or
collecting taxes imposed hereunder, or collecting city business license fees;
      (2)   The disclosure of information to the transient lodging tax
collector and the transient lodging tax collector’s agents;
      (3)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any persons to whom
certificates of authority have been issued;
      (4)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 192; or
      (5)   Disclosures required by O.R.S. Chapter 297.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.35 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal to
the City Council by filing a written appeal with the Tax Administrator within
10 days of the serving or the mailing of the decision being appealed. The City
Recorder shall schedule the hearing on a City Council agenda and provide the
appellant notice of the hearing at least 10 business days before the hearing.
The City Council may agree to a compromise of the amount of tax remittance if
there is a good faith dispute over the amount owing. Any person may appeal the
issuance of a rule or regulation issued by the Tax Administrator to the City
Council by filing a written appeal within ten business days of the mailing of
the notice of the regulation.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 34.36 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of this subchapter is a Class A civil infraction. Each day that
a violation remains uncured is a separate infraction. The person submitting the
return must sign the return and is subject to the penalty for false swearing,
which is a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 22, passed 3-5-1976; Ord. 330-21, passed 9-21-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.37 SCHEDULE OF AUDITS.
   The Tax Administrator shall perform or authorize an audit in accordance with
the following policy.
   (A)   A schedule of audits of the hotels within the city shall be prepared
so that each hotel will be audited on a routine basis at least once each three
years.
   (B)   An audit shall be performed at the time each hotel is sold, and
arrangements for such audit must be made with the Tax Administrator prior to
the issuance of a new certificate of authority.
   (C)   Additional audits may be performed in the discretion of the Tax
Administrator if he or she deems it necessary.
(Res. 12, passed 2-7-1977)
PUBLIC CONTRACTING AND PURCHASING RULES
§ 34.50 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose. This policy governs contracts entered into and purchases made
by the city. It is the policy of the city to utilize public contracting and
purchasing practices that maximize the efficient use of city resources and the
purchasing power of city funds by:
      (1)   Promoting impartial and open competition;
      (2)   Using solicitation materials that are complete and contain a clear
statement of contract specifications and requirements; and
      (3)   Taking full advantage of evolving procurement methods that suit the
purchasing needs of the city as they emerge in various industries.
   (B)   Interpretation of purchasing policy. Procurement responsibilities for
the city are established in this section in accordance with O.R.S. Chapters
279A, 279B, and 279C (the “Public Contracting Code”) and the Attorney General’s
Model Public Contracting Policies (“Model Policies”), being O.A.R. 137- 046-
0100 et seq.
      (1)   It is the city’s intent that this policy be interpreted to
authorize the full use of all contracting and purchasing powers described in
O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C.
      (2)   The Model Policies adopted under O.R.S. 279A.065 shall apply to the
contracts and purchases of the city to the extent they do not conflict with the
policies and regulations adopted by the city.
      (3)   In the event of a conflict between any provisions of this policy
and the Model Policies, the provisions of this policy shall prevail.
   (C)   Specific provisions’ precedence over general provisions. In the event
of a conflict between the provisions of this policy, the more specific
provision shall take precedence over the more general provision.
   (D)   Conflict with federal statutes and regulations. Except as otherwise
expressly provided in O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and/or 279C, applicable
federal statutes and regulations govern when federal funds are involved.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.51 SCOPE.
   These purchasing policies apply to all city departments. All city purchases
are subject to the authority of city public contracting policies, the policies
and ordinances of city, and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.52 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council comprises the Contract Review Board for the city. It
has determined the policies for the city’s public contracts and personal
service agreements. Public contracts include any purchase, lease, or sale of
real or personal property, public improvements, or services other than
agreements exclusively for personal service.
   (B)   The city follows the Attorney General’s model public contract policies
which include:
      (1)   O.R.S. Chapter 279A: general provisions;
      (2)   O.R.S. Chapter 279B: public procurements;
      (3)   O.R.S. Chapter 279C: public improvements;
      (4)   Division 46: provisions related to public contracting, being O.A.R.
137-046-0100 et seq.;
      (5)   Division 47: procurements for goods or services, being O.A.R. 137-
047-000 et seq.;
      (6)   Division 48: consultant selection; architectural, engineering and
land surveying services, and related services contracts, being O.A.R. 137-048-
0100 et seq.;
      (7)   Division 49: provisions related to public contracts for
construction services, being O.A.R. 137-049-0100 et seq.;
      (8)   O.A.R. 125, Division 246: provisions related to public contracting,
being O.A.R. 125-246- 0100 et seq.;
      (9)   O.A.R. 125, Division 247: procurements of supplies and services,
being O.A.R. 137-247- 0010 et seq.;
      (10)   O.A.R. 125, Division 248: consultant selection; architectural,
engineering land surveying services, and related services contracts, being
O.A.R. 125-248-0100 et seq.; and
      (11)   O.A.R. 125, Division 249: contracts for construction services,
being O.A.R. 125-249-0100 et seq.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.53 RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW.
   (A)   Requestor’s responsibilities.
      (1)   Prepare and provide written rationale and required documentation
for authorization to purchase the goods or services; and
      (2)   Inspect materials when received or verify that services were
provided. Provide proof of receipt.
   (B)   Vendor’s responsibilities. The city must ensure all vendors (including
contractors and consultants) meet the following requirements before issuing
payment. Vendors/contractors/consultants must (as applicable):
      (1)   Attach a policy of public liability insurance listing the city as
an additional insured to the contract;
      (2)   Attach proof of worker’s compensation insurance for all subject
workers and contractors to the contract; and
      (3)   Meet the city’s business license requirements.
         (a)   All businesses located in or doing business in the city shall
have a city business license. If a contractor is performing a service in the
city, it must have a city business license.
         (b)   If the vendor/contractor is selling a good or service to the
city of $500 or less in value, it need not have a business license.
   (C)   City accounting manager responsibilities.
      (1)   Support city departments in the procurement process including
training, as necessary;
      (2)   Maintain a functional process for procurement including a system
for authorization of purchases, timely payment of vendors, and accurate
accounting for costs of goods and services; and
      (3)   Maintain and verify records for all vendors, including up to date
W-9 forms, business licenses, and insurance coverages.
   (D)   City legal counsel’s responsibilities.
      (1)   Support city departments in the procurement process; and
      (2)   Provide timely contract review and interpretations of purchasing
requirements, terms, and conditions.
   (E)   City Recorder’s responsibilities.
      (1)   The City Recorder shall be the purchasing manager for the city and
is hereby authorized to issue all solicitations and to award all city contracts
for which the contract price does not exceed $10,000. The purchasing manager
shall hear all solicitation and award protests.
      (2)   The City Recorder may delegate and sub-delegate any or all
purchasing duties by written directive.
      (3)   Whenever the Oregon State Legislative Assembly enacts laws that
cause the Attorney General to modify its Model Policies, the City Recorder
shall review and recommend to the City Council any modifications required to
ensure compliance with statutory changes.
   (F)   City Council responsibilities.
      (1)   The City Council is designated as the local contract review board
for the city and has all the rights, powers, and authorities necessary to carry
out the provisions of these policies, the Public Contracting Code, and/or the
AG Model Policies.
      (2)   Review the documentation required in division (A) above before
allowing procurements for items over $10,000.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.54 PURCHASING THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   As the city’s purchasing manager, the City Recorder delegates
purchasing authorities for the city as follows.
Type of   Total Purchase Process PO Required ? Signing Authority Documentation
Purchase1 Amount                                                 Required
Type of      Total                     PO Required Signing       Documentation
Purchase1    Purchase     Process      ?           Authority     Required
             Amount
                          Direct
Goods and    $0 to $500   purchase     No          Employee      None
services                  (§
                          34.55)
                          Direct
            $501 to $999 purchase     No          Department    None
                          (§                      head
                          34.55)
                          Small                                  Basis of
                          procurements                           selection
            $1,000 to                 Yes         Department    and/or
             $4,999       (§                      head          documentation
                          34.55)                                 of verbal
                                                                 quotes
                          Small                                  Basis of
                          procurements                           selection
            $5,000 to                 Yes         City Recorder and/or
             $9,999       (§                                    documentation
                          34.55)                                 of verbal
                                                                 quotes
                          Intermediate
             $10,000 to   procurements                           Written
            $149,999                  Yes         City Council  quotes
                          (§
                          34.55)
                          Large
             $150,000 and procurements                           Formal
            above                     Yes         City Council  solicitation
                          (§                                    documents
                          34.55)
                                                   Department
Professional                                       head ($0 to   Basis of
services (A/              Direct                   $4,999)       selection
E, land      $0 to        appointment              City Recorder and/or
surveying,   $99,999      (§          Yes         ($5,000 to    documentation
and related               34.56)                   $10,000)      of verbal
services)                                          City Council  quotes
                                                   (greater than
                                                   $10,000)
                          Informal
             $100,000 to  solicitation                           Written
            $249,999                  Yes         City Council  quotes
                          (§
                          34.56)
                          Formal
             $250,000 and solicitation                           Formal
            above                     Yes         City Council  solicitation
                          (§                                    documents
                          34.56)
                                                   Department
                                                   head ($0 to   Basis of
                          Direct                   $4,999)       selection
Public       $0 to        selection                City Recorder and/or
improvements $49,999      (§          Yes         ($5,000 to    documentation
                          34.57)                   $10,000)      of verbal
                                                   City Council  quotes
                                                   (greater than
                                                   $10,000)
                          Informal
            $50,000 to   solicitation Yes         City Council  Written
             $99,999      (§                                    quotes
                          34.57)
                          Formal                                 Formal
            $100,000 and solicitation Yes         City Council  solicitation
             above        (§                                    documents
                          34.57)
1   These processes represented within this table are considered standard
procurement types. Other procurement processes exist where there is an
allowable exception to competitive bidding rules. These processes are
described in detail here.
 
   (B)   (1)   The public contracting and purchasing ordinance states “the
price of an item shall be inclusive of all necessary components to make the
item functional.”
      (2)   This prohibits breaking a purchase into “component units” (such as,
separating hoses from a power washer to get the price below the purchasing
limit).
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.55 PURCHASING GOODS AND/OR SERVICES.
   Goods and/or services includes the purchase of supplies, equipment,
materials, and any personal property, including any tangible, intangible, and
intellectual property and rights and licenses in relation thereto, and
services, other than personal services and professional services as defined
within this policy.
   (A)   Direct purchases (less than $1,000).
      (1)   Contracts or purchases of goods or services with a contract price
less than $500 can be purchased directly by authorized personnel and are not
subject to competitive bidding or public notice requirements. Purchases of
goods or services with a price between $500 and $1,000 require department head
approval.
      (2)   Documentation required: none
   (B)   Small procurements ($1,000 to less than $10,000). Contracts or
purchases of goods or services with a contract price more than $1,000 and less
than $10,000 are small procurements. Small procurements are not subject to
competitive purchasing requirements and no public notice is required.
      (1)   For small procurements of goods or services, the purchaser may use
any procurement method the purchaser deems practical or convenient, including
informal verbal quotes, direct negotiation, or direct award. Purchasers
conducting small procurements should select vendors that provide the most
advantageous terms for the city, taking into account price, experience,
expertise, functionality, suitability, and other relevant factors.
      (2)   Vendors selected should meet all vendor requirements.
      (3)   A small procurement contract awarded may be amended to exceed
$10,000 only in accordance with O.A.R. 137-047-0800, provided that the
cumulative amendments do not increase the total contract price to more than 10%
of the original contract price. An amendment that increases the original
contract by more than 10% requires City Recorder approval.
      (4)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order; and
         (b)   Description of selection method and documentation of three
verbal quotes if over $5,000.
   (C)   Intermediate procurements (more than $10,000 and less than $150,000).
Contracts for goods or services with a contract price greater than $10,000 and
less than or equal to $150,000 are intermediate procurements.
      (1)   Intermediate procurements shall be by informal written solicitation
(minimum of three written quotes).
      (2)   The purchaser may negotiate with an offeror to clarify an informal
written solicitation, or to make modifications that will make the quote,
proposal, or solicitation acceptable or more advantageous to the city.
      (3)   If a contract is awarded, the award shall be made to the offeror
whose informal written solicitation will best serve the interests of the city,
taking into account price or any other relevant considerations, including but
not limited to, experience, expertise, product functionality, suitability for a
particular purpose, delivery, and contractor responsibility.
      (4)   Intermediate procurement contracts may be amended if the cumulative
amendments do not increase the total contract price by more than 10% of the
original contract price. An amendment that increases the original contract by
more than 10% requires City Council approval.
      (5)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order;
         (b)   Authority for the purchasing transaction and basis for using the
intermediate procurement process;
         (c)   Written quote sheet;
         (d)   Copies of all quotes received (should be at least three); if
three were not received, description of how purchaser tried to obtain and
reason that minimum three were not obtained;
         (e)   Evaluation of quotes (such as, scoring sheets, evaluation
criteria, and selection considerations) attached to the approved purchase
order;
         (f)   Copy of contract document (signed by all parties);
         (g)   Any amendments or addenda to the contract (signed by all
parties); and
         (h)   Evidence of Council approval (minutes, resolution, and the
like).
   (D)   Large procurements (more than $150,000). Contracts for goods or
services with a contract price greater than $150,000 are large procurements.
      (1)   The purchaser shall use competitive sealed bidding as set forth in
O.R.S. 279B.055, or competitive sealed proposals as set forth in O.R.S.
279B.060.
      (2)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order;
         (b)   Authority for the purchasing transaction and basis for using the
large procurement process;
         (c)   Copy of request for bids/proposals, copies of bids/proposals
received, evaluation of bids (must include scoring criteria and scoring sheets,
copy of public notice, and notice of intent to award attached to the approved
purchase order within the purchasing system;
         (d)   Copy of contract document (signed by all parties);
         (e)   Any amendments or addenda to the contract (signed by all
parties);
         (f)   Evidence of Council approval (minutes, resolution, and the
like); and
         (g)   Protests received (if any) and city response.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.56 PURCHASING PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Generally. Professional services includes architectural, engineering,
land surveying, photogrammetric, transportation planning, or services related
to the planning, design, engineering, or oversight of public improvement
projects such as:
      (1)   Landscape architectural services;
      (2)   Facilities planning services;
      (3)   Energy planning services;
      (4)   Space planning services;
      (5)   Environmental impact studies;
      (6)   Hazardous substances or hazardous waste or toxic substances testing
services;
      (7)   Wetland delineation studies;
      (8)   Wetland mitigation services;
      (9)   Native American studies;
      (10)   Historical research services;
      (11)   Endangered species studies;
      (12)   Rare plant studies;
      (13)   Biological services;
      (14)   Archaeological services;
      (15)   Cost estimating services;
      (16)   Appraising services;
      (17)   Material testing services;
      (18)   Mechanical system balancing services;
      (19)   Commissioning services;
      (20)   Project management services;
      (21)   Construction management services and owner’s representative
service; and/or
      (22)   Land use planning services.
   (B)   Direct selection (less than $100,000). The city may enter into a
contract directly with a consultant providing professional services without
following the selection procedures set forth elsewhere in these policies if:
      (1)   The city finds that an emergency exists (see emergency
procurements);
      (2)   The total estimated fee to be paid under the contract does not
exceed $100,000;
      (3)   Where a project is being continued, as more particularly described
below, and where the total estimated fee is expected to exceed $250,000, the
professional services to be performed under the contract meet the following
requirements:
         (a)   The services consist of or are related to professional services
that have been substantially described, planned, or otherwise previously
studied under an earlier contract with the same consultant and are rendered for
the same project as the professional services rendered under the earlier
contract;
         (b)   The city used a formal selection procedure applicable to
selection of the consultant at the time of original selection to select the
consultant for the earlier contract; and
         (c)   The city makes written findings that entering into a contract
with the consultant, whether in the form of an amendment to an existing
contract or a separate contract for the additional scope of services, will:
            1.   Promote efficient use of public funds and resources and result
in substantial cost savings to the city; and
            2.   Protect the integrity of the public contracting process and
the competitive nature of the procurement by not encouraging favoritism or
substantially diminishing competition in the award of the contract.
      (4)   The city may select a consultant for a contract under this section
from the following sources:
         (a)   A list of consultants the city creates under O.A.R. 137-048-0120
(qualified pool list; list of interested consultants; performance record);
         (b)   Another contracting agency’s list of consultants that the
contracting agency has created under O.A.R. 137-048-0120 (list of interested
consultants; performance record), with written consent of that contracting
agency; or
         (c)   All consultants offering the required professional services that
the city reasonably can identify under the circumstances.
      (5)   The city shall direct negotiations with a consultant selected under
this section toward obtaining written agreement on:
         (a)   The consultant’s performance obligations and performance
schedule;
         (b)   Payment methodology and a maximum amount payable to the
consultant for the professional services required under the contract that is
fair and reasonable to the city as determined solely by the city, taking into
account the value, scope, complexity, and nature of the professional services;
         (c)   Any other provisions the city believes to be in the city’s best
interest to negotiate; and
         (d)   The signing authority for different levels of costs are
specified in the chart in §
34.54 of this subchapter.
   (C)   Informal solicitations (more than $100,000 and less than $250,000). An
informal written solicitation process may be used for professional services
when the contract price is less than $250,000.
      (1)   (a)   An informal written solicitation shall solicit quotes from at
least three qualified providers.
         (b)   If the purchaser determines three qualified providers are not
reasonably available, fewer shall suffice if the reasons are documented in the
procurement file.
      (2)   The solicitation document shall include:
         (a)   The date, time, and place that proposals are due;
         (b)   A description of services sought, or the project to be
undertaken;
         (c)   Any statement of the time period for which quotes must remain
firm, irrevocable, valid, and binding on the offeror. If no time is stated in
the solicitation document, the period shall be 30 days;
         (d)   Any required contract terms or conditions; and
         (e)   Any required quote form or format.
      (3)   Selection and ranking of quotes may be based on the following
criteria:
         (a)   Capability to perform the personal services required;
         (b)   Experienced staff available to perform the personal services
required, including the proposer’s recent, current, and projected workloads;
         (c)   Performance history;
         (d)   Approach and philosophy used in providing personal services;
         (e)   Fees or costs;
         (f)   Geographic proximity to the project or the area where the
services are to be performed; and
         (g)   Such other factors deemed appropriate, including a desire to
ensure an equitable distribution of work among highly qualified contractors.
      (4)   Professional services contracts procured by informal written
solicitations pursuant to this section may be amended, provided the amendment
is within the scope of the original contract and the cumulative amount of the
amendments does not increase the total contract price by more than 10% over the
original contract price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work
being performed and it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another
provider within the time frames needed to complete the work.
      (5)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order;
         (b)   Authority for the purchasing transaction and basis for using the
informal solicitation process;
         (c)   Copy of quote document (such as, request for quotes/proposals/
qualifications and invitations to bid), copies of all quotes received,
evaluation of quotes (such as, scoring sheets, evaluation criteria, and
selection considerations) attached to the approved purchase order in the
purchasing system;
         (d)   Copy of contract document (signed by all parties);
         (e)   Any amendments or addenda to the contract (signed by all
parties); and
         (f)   Evidence of Council approval (minutes, resolution, and the
like).
   (D)   Formal solicitation (greater than $250,000). A request for proposals
shall be used to procure personal services when the contract price is $250,000
or more.
      (1)   Request for proposal/bid. The request for proposal/bid shall
include:
         (a)   Notice of any pre-offer conference, including:
            1.   The time, date, and location;
            2.   Whether attendance at the pre-offer conference is mandatory or
voluntary; and
            3.   A provision that statements made by representatives of the
city at the pre-offer conference are not binding unless confirmed by written
addendum.
         (b)   The form and instructions for submission of proposals/bids,
including the location where proposals/bids must be submitted, the date and
time by which proposals/bids must be received, and any other special
information, such as, whether proposals/bids may be submitted by electronic
means;
         (c)   The name and title of the person designated for the receipt of
proposals/bids and the person designated as the contact person for the
procurement, if different;
         (d)   A date, time, and place that pre-qualification applications, if
any, must be filed and the classes of work, if any, for which proposers must be
pre-qualified;
         (e)   A statement that the city may cancel the procurement or reject
any or all proposals/bids;
         (f)   The date, time, and place of opening;
         (g)   The office where the request for proposals/bids may be reviewed;
         (h)   A description of the professional services to be procured;
         (i)   The evaluation criteria and a description of how proposals/bids
will be evaluated, including the relative importance of price and other
evaluation factors used to rate the proposals/bids;
         (j)   If more than one tier of competitive evaluation will be used, a
description of the process under which the proposals/bids will be evaluated in
the subsequent tiers;
         (k)   If contracts will be awarded to more than one professional
services contractor, an identification of how the city will determine the
number of contracts to be awarded, or that the manner will be left to the
city’s discretion at time of award;
         (l)   If contracts will be awarded to more than one professional
services contractor, the criteria to be used to choose from the multiple
contracts when acquiring professional services shall be identified;
         (m)   The anticipated schedule, deadlines, evaluation process, and
protest process;
         (n)   The form and amount of any proposal/bid security deemed
reasonable and prudent to protect the city’s interests;
         (o)   All required contract terms and conditions, including the
statutorily required provisions in O.R.S. 279B.220, 279B.230, and 279B.235; and
         (p)   Any terms and conditions authorized for negotiation.
      (2)   The purchaser shall provide public notice of a request for
proposals/bids for professional services.
         (a)   Public notice shall be given not less than 21 days prior to
closing for the request for proposals/bids, unless the purchaser determines
that a shorter interval is in the public’s interest, or a shorter interval will
not substantially affect competition.
         (b)   The purchaser shall document the specific reasons for the
shorter public notice period in the procurement file.
      (3)   Professional services contracts procured by requests for proposals
pursuant to this section may be amended, provided the amendment is within the
scope of the original contract and the cumulative amount of the amendments does
not increase the total contract price by more than 10% over the original
contract price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work being
performed and it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another
provider within the time frames needed to complete the work.
      (4)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order;
         (b)   Authority for the purchasing transaction and basis for using the
formal solicitation procurement process;
         (c)   Copy of request for proposals/bids, copies of proposals/bids
received, evaluation of proposals/bids (must include scoring criteria and
scoring sheets), copy of public notice, and notice of intent to award attached
to the approved purchase order in the purchasing system;
         (d)   Copy of contract document (signed by all parties);
         (e)   Any amendments or addenda to the contract (signed by all
parties);
         (f)   Evidence of Council approval (minutes, resolution, and the
like); and
         (g)   Protests received (if any) and city response.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.57 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   A public improvement is a project for construction, reconstruction, or major
renovation on real property, by or for the city. A public improvement does not
include projects for which no funds of the city are directly or indirectly
used, except for participation that is incidental or related primarily to
project design or inspection; or emergency work, minor alteration, or ordinary
repair or maintenance necessary to preserve a public improvement.
   (A)   Direct selection ($0 to $49,999).
      (1)   The signing authority for different levels of costs are specified
in §
34.54 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order; and
         (b)   Description of selection method and documentation of three
verbal quotes if over $5,000.
   (B)   Informal solicitation (less than $100,000). An informal written
solicitation process may be used for public improvement contracts when the
contract price is less than $100,000.
      (1)   An informal written solicitation shall solicit quotes from at least
three qualified providers. If the purchaser determines three qualified
providers are not reasonably available, fewer shall suffice if the reasons are
documented in the procurement file.
      (2)   The solicitation document shall include:
         (a)   The date, time, and place that quotes are due;
         (b)   A description of public improvement sought, or the project to be
undertaken;
         (c)   Any statement of the time period for which quotes must remain
firm, irrevocable, valid, and binding on the offeror. If no time is stated in
the solicitation document, the period shall be 30 days;
         (d)   Any required contract terms or conditions; and
         (e)   Any required quote form or format.
      (3)   Selection and ranking of quotes may be based on the following
criteria:
         (a)   Capability to perform the public improvement required;
         (b)   Experienced staff available to perform the public improvement
required, including the proposer’s recent, current, and projected workloads;
         (c)   Performance history;
         (d)   Fees or costs;
         (e)   Geographic proximity to the project or the area where the public
improvements are to be performed; and
         (f)   Such other factors deemed appropriate, including a desire to
ensure an equitable distribution of work among highly qualified contractors.
      (4)   Public improvement contracts procured by informal written
solicitations pursuant to this section may be amended, provided the amendment
is within the scope of the original contract and the cumulative amount of the
amendments does not increase the total contract price by more than 10% over the
original contract price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work
being performed and it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another
provider within the time frames needed to complete the work;
      (5)   Documentation required:
         (a)   Purchase order;
         (b)   Authority for the purchasing transaction and basis for using the
informal solicitation process;
         (c)   Copy of quote document (such as, request for quotes/proposals/
qualifications and invitations to bid), copies of all quotes received, and
evaluation of quotes (such as, scoring sheets, evaluation criteria, and
selection considerations) attached to the approved purchase order in the
purchasing system;
         (d)   Copy of contract document (signed by all parties); and
         (e)   Any evidence of Council approval, if applicable (minutes,
resolution, and the like).
   (C)   Formal solicitations (more than $100,000). Public improvements over
$100,000 shall be procured through a formal solicitation process.
      (1)   Invitations to bid must include the following information:
         (a)   Time and date by which the bids must be received, and a place
where the bids must be submitted. The city may receive bids by electronic means
or direct;
         (b)   Name and title of the person designated to receive bids and the
contact person for the procurement, if different;
         (c)   Description of the procurement, which must: identify the scope
of work, outline the contractor’s anticipated duties, set expectations for the
contractor’s performance, and include all contractual terms and conditions
applicable to the procurement;
         (d)   Time, date, and place for prequalification applications, if any,
to be filed, and the classes of work, if any, for which bidders must be
prequalified under O.R.S. 279B.120;
         (e)   All criteria to be used in evaluating the bids; and
         (f)   Additional statements as required by O.R.S. 279B.055.
      (2)   The invitation to bid may additionally include the following
information:
         (a)   Criteria to determine minimum acceptability, such as inspection,
testing, quality, and suitability for intended use or purpose; and
         (b)   Criteria that will affect the bid price and that will be
considered in evaluating for award, including but not limited to discounts and
transportation costs. Total costs of ownership or operation of a product over
the life of the product must be objectively measurable if included.
      (3)   The city may require bid security if the purchaser determines that
bid security is reasonably necessary or prudent to protect the interests of the
city;
      (4)   A public notice may be provided in any manner deemed reasonably
prudent considering the nature of the procurement. Public notice may be
published on the city’s website, through an electronic procurement system, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area where the contract is to be
performed. For construction contracts over $100,000, the city shall publish at
least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the contract
is to be performed;
      (5)   The city shall evaluate all bids received before the time and date
indicated for bid opening. The city may not consider for award any bids
received after the time and date indicated for bid opening. All applicable
preferences shall be applied in evaluating the bids. Bids shall be evaluated on
the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation to bid. No criteria
may be used in the evaluation that were not set forth in the invitation to bid;
      (6)   At least seven calendar days before the award, the city shall
provide written notice of its intent to award a contract to all bidders. A
shorter notice period may be established, provided that the specific reasons
for the shorter notice period are documented in the procurement file;
      (7)   The city’s award shall not be final until the later of either the
expiration of the protest period following the notice of intent to award
pursuant to O.A.R. 137-047-0740, or after the city provides written responses
to all timely-filed protests denying the protests and affirming the award; and
      (8)   Public improvement contracts procured by formal solicitation
pursuant to this section may be amended, provided the amendment is within the
scope of the original contract and the cumulative amount of the amendments does
not increase the total contract price by more than 10% over the original
contract price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work being
performed and it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another
provider within the time frames needed to complete the work.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 34.58 EXCEPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   In certain circumstances, exceptions to competitive procurement requirements
may be granted through the City Council acting as the city’s Contract Review
Board. Departments will be required to show justification for any exemption
request, receive approval from the Council as documented in the minutes/
resolution, and provide proper documentation for the city’s procurement files.
   (A)   Sole source procurements (other than public improvements). A contract
may be awarded as a sole-source procurement without competition pursuant to
this section.
      (1)   Before a sole-source contract may be awarded, the purchaser shall
make written findings that the goods or services, personal services, or
professional services are available from only one source, based on one or more
of the following criteria:
         (a)   The efficient use of existing goods or services, personal
services, or professional services requires the acquisition of compatible goods
or services, personal services, or professional services that are available
from only one source;
         (b)   The goods or services, personal services, or professional
services are available from only one source and required for the exchange of
software or data with other public or private agencies;
         (c)   The goods or services, personal services, or professional
services are available from only one source, and are needed for use in a pilot
or an experimental project; or
         (d)   Other facts or circumstances exist that support the conclusion
that the goods or services, personal services, or professional services are
available from only one source.
      (2)   To the extent reasonably practical, contract terms advantageous to
the city shall be negotiated with the sole source provider.
      (3)   The purchaser shall post notice of any determination that the sole
source selection method will be used on the city’s website not less than ten
days prior to the date a sole source contract will be awarded. The notice shall
describe the goods or services, personal services, or professional services to
be procured, identify the prospective contractor, and include the date and time
when, and place where, protests of the use of a sole source selection method
must be filed.
   (B)   Special procurements. In its capacity as Contract Review Board for the
city, the City Council, upon its own initiative or upon request, may create
special selection, evaluation, and award procedures for, or may exempt from
competition, the award of a specific contract or class of contracts as provided
in this section.
      (1)   The approval of a special solicitation method or exemption from
competition must be based upon a record before the City Council that contains
the following:
         (a)   The nature of the contract or class of contracts for which the
special solicitation or exemption is requested;
         (b)   The estimated contract price or cost of the project, if
relevant;
         (c)   Findings to support the substantial cost savings, enhancement in
quality or performance, or other public benefit anticipated by the proposed
selection method or exemption from competitive solicitation;
         (d)   Findings to support the reason that approval of the request
would be unlikely to encourage favoritism or diminish competition for the
public contract or class of public contracts, or would otherwise substantially
promote the public interest in a manner that could not practicably be realized
by complying with the solicitation requirements that would otherwise be
applicable under these regulations;
         (e)   A description of the proposed alternative contracting methods to
be employed; and
         (f)   The estimated date by which it would be necessary to let the
contract(s).
      (2)   In determining a special selection method, the City Council may
consider the type, cost, amount of the contract or class of contracts, number
of persons available to make offers, and such other factors as it may deem
appropriate.
      (3)   The city shall approve the special solicitation or exemption after
a public hearing before the City Council.
         (a)   The city shall provide appropriate public notice of the hearing.
         (b)   At the public hearing, the city shall offer an opportunity for
any interested party to appear and present comment.
         (c)   The City Council shall consider the findings and may approve the
exemption as proposed or as modified by the City Council after providing an
opportunity for public comment.
   (C)   Contracts. The following classes of contracts may be awarded in any
manner that the City Recorder deems appropriate to the city’s needs, including
by direct appointment or purchase. Except where otherwise provided, the City
Recorder shall make a record of the method of award.
      (1)   Contract amendments shall not be considered to be separate
contracts if made in accordance with these policies.
      (2)   Contracts for the acquisition of materials entitled to copyright,
including but not limited to, works of art and design, literature and music, or
materials even if not entitled to copyright, purchased for use as library
lending materials.
      (3)   Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling, provided the service
or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be determined without
extensive preliminary dismantling or testing.
      (4)   Contracts for the purchase of items for which prices or selection
of suppliers are regulated by a governmental authority.
      (5)   Contracts or arrangements for the sale or other disposal of
abandoned property or other personal property not owned by the city.
      (6)   Contracts for the purchase of specialty goods by the city for
resale to consumers.
      (7)   Sponsorship agreements, under which the city receives a gift or
donation in exchange for recognition of the donor.
      (8)   Contracts for the disposal of structures located on city-owned
property.
      (9)   Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with their terms are
not considered to be newly issued contracts and are not subject to competitive
procurement procedures.
      (10)   Contracts for a single period of one year or less, for the
temporary extension or renewal of an expiring and non-renewable, or recently
expired, contract, other than a contract for public improvements.
      (11)   The city may negotiate and enter into a license, permit, or other
contract for the temporary use of city-owned property without using a
competitive selection process if:
         (a)   The contract results from an unsolicited proposal to the city
based on the unique attributes of the property or the unique needs of the
proposer;
         (b)   The proposed use of the property is consistent with the city’s
use of the property and the public interest; and
         (c)   The city reserves the right to terminate the contract without
penalty, if the city determines that the contract is no longer consistent with
the city’s present or planned use of the property or the public interest.
      (12)   The City Recorder may contract for the purchase of used property
by negotiation if such property is suitable for the city’s needs and can be
purchased for a lower cost than substantially similar new property.
         (a)   For this purpose, the cost of used property shall be based upon
the life-cycle cost of the property over the period for which the property will
be used by the city.
         (b)   The City Recorder shall record the findings that support the
purchase.
      (13)   Contracts for the purchase of steam, power, heat, water,
telecommunications services, and other utilities.
      (14)   Contracts for meeting room rental, hotel rooms, food and beverage,
and incidental costs related to conferences and city-sponsored workshops and
trainings.
   (D)   Emergency procurements. When the purchaser determines that immediate
execution of a contract within the purchaser’s authority is necessary to
prevent substantial damage or injury to persons or property, the purchaser may
execute the contract without competitive selection and award or City Council
approval, but, where time permits, competitive quotes should be sought from at
least three providers.
      (1)   When the purchaser enters into an emergency contract, the purchaser
shall, as soon as possible in light of the emergency circumstances, document
the nature of the emergency, the method used for selection of the particular
contractor, and the reason why the selection method was deemed in the best
interest of the city and the public.
      (2)   The purchaser shall also notify the City Council of the facts and
circumstances surrounding the emergency execution of the contract.
   (E)   Cooperative procurement contracts.
      (1)   Cooperative procurements may be made without competitive
solicitation as provided in the Public Contracting Code.
      (2)   Suggested website to obtain quotes: “OregonBuy”; the state
contracts website offers solicitation research and advertisement to help get
the best cost quote for your goods, services, and public improvements (website:
https://oregonbuys.gov.)
      (3)   In order to use this site, you will be assigned a login and
password along with helpful guidelines to obtain the quotes for your request.
Vendors offer their services through this site.
   (F)   Public improvements exempt from competitive bidding requirements.
      (1)   Specific exemptions to competitive bidding requirements exist for
public improvement projects that meet the following criteria within the model
rules:
         (a)   Projects that are unlikely to promote favoritism, and result in
substantial cost savings (O.A.R. 137-049-0200);
         (b)   Energy saving performance contracts (O.A.R. 137-049-0680);
         (c)   Design/build contracting (O.A.R. 137-049-0670); and
         (d)   Construction manager/general contractor projects (O.A.R. 137-
049-0690).
      (2)   Public improvements exempted from competitive bidding requirements
must be approved by the City Council acting as the city’s local Contract Review
Board. The city must prepare and submit findings and hold a public hearing in
accordance with O.R.S. 279C.335.
(Ord. 329-21, passed 8-3-2021)
APPENDIX A: TRANSIENT LODGING TAX REMITTANCE FORM
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3f983025efa0e6ee5551c3b9f75b8df2f8eed08a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1171.png]
 
(Ord. 330-21, passed 9-7-2021)
APPENDIX B: REPORT OF GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TRANSIENT LODGING INTERMEDIARIES
City of Depoe Bay
Report of Gross Receipts from Transient Lodging Intermediaries
Identify all transactions with transient lodging intermediaries for this month/
quarter. Attach this schedule to your return that you submit to us. Only list
transactions for which the transient lodging intermediaries paid tax directly
to the City of Depoe Bay. Add additional pages if needed.
                  Reporting month            Reporting year
Name of Transient Lodging Intermediary          Amount Received
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
Total (Should equal total on line 2c of page 1) $
 
(Ord. 330-21, passed 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 35: EMPLOYEE POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Employee handbook
   
35.02   League of Oregon Cities Employee Benefits Services Trust Life Insurance
Program
   
35.03   Oregon Public Employees Retirement System Unused Sick Leave Program
   
35.04   Mandatory employee contributions
   
35.05   Employee assistance policy
   
35.06   Equal opportunity and affirmative action policy
§ 35.01 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the city’s employee handbook. A full
copy of the handbook can be found in the City Recorder’s office.
(Res. 467, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 35.02 LEAGUE OF OREGON CITIES EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SERVICES TRUST LIFE INSURANCE
PROGRAM.
   The city elects to participate in the Employee Benefits Services Trust (EBS)
Life Insurance Plan for Employees Program.
(Res. 468, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 35.03 OREGON PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM UNUSED SICK LEAVE PROGRAM.
   The city has elected to participate in the Public Employees Retirement
System (OPERS) Unused Sick Leave Program.
(Res. 426, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 35.04 MANDATORY EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall pick up (make direct payment of) all mandatory employee
contributions required to be made by any employee of the said city pursuant to
any provision of law, including but not limited to the provisions of Article IX
of the Oregon Constitution, as amended by the adoption of Ballot Measure 8 of
1994.
   (B)   As required by § 10, Article IX of the Oregon Constitution, except to
the extent otherwise permitted by law and required by the obligation of any
valid and enforceable contract of the city, the salary or gross wages of any
such employee as for whom such pick up is made shall be reduced by an amount
equal to such pick up 6% of such salary or gross wages, so that such employee
shall not thereby be relieved of the obligation of said § 10, Article IX of the
Oregon Constitution.
   (C)   For income tax purposes, it is hereby specified that such
contributions, although otherwise deemed employee contributions under § 10,
Article IX of the Oregon Constitution, are paid by the employer, and the
employee has no option to receive the amounts contributed into the retirement
plan or system, and the amount of such pick up contribution shall be excluded
from, and shall reduce, the amount of gross wages stated and repotted on the
employee’s form W-2 which is filed with the United States Department of
Treasury, Internal Revenue Service.
   (D)   It is hereby determined that the impact of the requirements of Ballot
Measure 8 will have a material adverse effect upon the net wages of the
employees of the city, and upon the morale of such employees, and for such
reason an emergency is declared to exist, and the adoption of this section is
found to be immediately necessary for the public safety, health, and welfare,
and this section, which mitigates the adverse effect of such measure on
employees of the city, without adverse effect to the city, shall become
effective immediately upon its passage.
(Ord. 212, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 35.05 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE POLICY.
   (A)   An employee assistance program is established and implemented
immediately in accordance with the policies, procedures, and training
guidelines of the city.
   (B)   The city shall support and share in the implementation of the employee
assistance program by:
      (1)   Establishing a system, based on deteriorating work performance and
attendance patterns, for the early identification, referral, and follow-up of
employees whose work performance appears to be impaired by alcoholism, other
drug abuse, or behavioral problems;
      (2)   Making available sufficient supervisory staff for training to serve
as coordinators, whose tasks will be to assist employees in referral for
evaluation, treatment, and subsequent follow-up and recovery;
      (3)   Establishing an appropriate timetable for training supervisors at
all levels concerning the effective utilization of the employee assistance
program;
      (4)   Establishing a confidential record system for purposes of case
management, separate from job performance and personnel records;
      (5)   Establishing a reporting system which protects the identity of
employees for the purposes of assessing and monitoring the quality of the
employee assistance program; and
      (6)   Creating and maintaining awareness of the employee assistance
program among employees through media such as training, posters, brochures, and
the like.
   (C)   The county employee assistance program is primarily responsible for
the development and on-going operation of the employee assistance program to
include:
      (1)   Training of appropriate supervisory personnel;
      (2)   Education of employees on appropriate utilization of the employee
assistance program;
      (3)   Evaluation, diagnosis, and referral of employees who are
supervisory-, family-, or self-referred;
      (4)   Clinical record keeping and maintaining the information system that
will be used to assess and monitor the quality of the employee assistance
program; and
      (5)   Follow-up on referrals from supervisors and on those employees
referred to community treatment resources.
(Res. 164, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 35.06 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to:
   (A)   Afford equal opportunities for employment to all persons regardless of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, or national origin;
   (B)   Say the city is an equal opportunity employer in all job
announcements; and
   (C)   Take affirmative action steps when necessary to assure all persons are
afforded an equal opportunity to apply for city employment.
(Res. 178, passed 7-6-1993)
CHAPTER 36: PLANS, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Urban renewal plan
   
36.02   Credit card policy
   
36.03   Oil and hazardous materials emergency response plan
   
36.04   Written investment policy
   
36.05   State deferred compensation plan
   
36.06   Identity theft program
   
36.07   Public records requests policy
   
36.08   County multi-jurisdictional natural hazard mitigation plan
   
36.09   Comprehensive Plan
   
36.10   Estuarine plan
   
36.11   Records management program
   
36.12   News media attendance policy
   
36.13   Excessive force against non-violent city right demonstrators policy
   
36.14   Harbor vessel Christmas decorations policy
Real Property Compensation Claims Process
   
36.30   Purpose
   
36.31   Definitions
   
36.32   Claim filing procedures
   
36.33   City Recorder investigation and recommendation
   
36.34   City Council public hearing
   
36.35   City Council action on claim
   
36.36   Real property compensation; private cause of action
   
36.37   Processing fee
   
36.38   Fees
Cross-reference:
   Real property claims process deposit/fee, see §
34.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 URBAN RENEWAL PLAN.
   The urban renewal plan is hereby adopted by reference, pursuant to the
provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 457. A full copy of the plan can be found in the
City Recorder’s office.
(Ord. 282, passed 8-5-2008)
§ 36.02 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   The city hereby adopts the following to maintain the financial integrity of
the city and its staff. All uses of the city credit cards will be strictly
monitored by the City Recorder, Public Works Director, Mayor, and Council.
   (A)   Issuance. City credit cards will be obtained by the City Recorder and
will be strictly controlled. It will require permission of the City Recorder or
Public Works Director to use the card for purchases, travel or training
expenses. It will have a limit of no more than $10,000 with the option to
increase to $15,000 if deemed necessary by the City Recorder. No single
transaction will be more than $2,500 unless approved in advance. Cards will be
issued to city and city maintenance.
   (B)   Legitimate business expenses. Upon authorization by the City Recorder
or Public Works Director, the credit card may be used when time is of the
essence to save the city money, it is the only form of payment accepted for a
product or service by a vendor and there are not alternative vendors within
reason or it is required for travel purposes such as reserving a room, or other
types of travel expenses. Travel expenses must be made by staff in the city
hall offices and approved by City Recorder.
   (C)   Policies. Receipts will be required for all uses of the credit card.
The charges will be reviewed and approved monthly by the City Recorder and City
Council. Any personal use of the card will make the user subject to losing
credit card privileges and/or possible termination. Cards will be kept in a
locked facility or safe. There will be a sign-out sheet for users along with a
list of valid uses of the cards.
(Res. 465, passed - -2017)
§ 36.03 OIL AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the oil and hazardous materials emergency response
plan.
(Res. 112, passed 12-6-1988)
§ 36.04 WRITTEN INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide guidelines for investment of funds by authorized
officials of the city.
   (B)   Policy. The city follows generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) for municipalities. The city values the investment of assets in the
local community. Therefore, it will make every effort to invest in local
financial institutions. The investment policy will be reviewed annually by the
City Council, and any policy changes will be approved by resolution of the
Council.
   (C)   Authority/responsibility. 
      (1)   Officials with investment authority are the Mayor and City Council,
the Audit Review Committee, Chief Finance Officer, and other designated staff
members.
      (2)   Assigned responsibilities:
         (a)   Mayor and City Council: annual review of investment policy
authority designations;
         (b)   Mayor and Audit Review Committee: review investment activities
as needed (changes occur; rates, maturities, and the like) but not less than
twice each year; and
         (c)   Chief Finance officer/designee: implementation of policies,
including transactions and reporting.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Management of investments shall recognize:
         (a)   Long- and short-term cash and investment needs;
         (b)   Investment diversification to credit or interest rate risk;
         (c)   Safety of principal; and
         (d)   Investment requirements and restrictions.
      (2)   Decisions regarding investment activities will be made by the Chief
Finance Officer along with the Mayor and Audit Review Committee in compliance
with approved investment policy. Any changes will be reported to the City
Council at the next following regular Council meeting.
      (3)   Approved investment vehicles:
         (a)   Bank savings, money market demand (MMDA), and certificates of
deposit;
         (b)   Oregon State Treasury and local government investment pool; and
         (c)   County Treasurer (sanitary bond account required by statute).
      (4)   Based upon adopted budget, investments will be aligned with cash
flow needed throughout the year for disbursements and fund transfers. These
funds are invested short-term: funds held in interest bearing accounts which
are available on demand and may be withdrawn at any time without penalty.
      (5)   Based upon adopted budget, funds in excess of known cash needs and
reserve funds may be invested long-term: funds held in interest bearing
accounts with maturities of one year or less. No investment will exceed a one
year (365-day) maturity.
(Res. 402, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 36.05 STATE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The proper officers are herewith authorized and directed to take all
actions and make such reductions and submit such deferrals as are required by
the Public Employees Retirement Board of the state pursuant to O.R.S. 243.478
(1).
   (B)   (1)   The city agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the
contracts between the state, its investment providers, and record keeping
company, and the plan document as identified in O.R.S. 243.401 to 243.507 and
third party administrator (TPA) services as amended from time to time.
      (2)   Specifically, without limitation, the city agrees to appoint its
governing body as trustees of its plan, pursuant to § 457(g)(2) of the Internal
Revenue Code (IRC), being 26 U.S.C. § 457(g)(2). The city certifies it has
received a copy of the plan document and TPA services.
   (C)   The city shall submit a certified copy of the notification memo to the
state Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) as the Plan Administrator.
   (D)   The City Council, recognizing the PERS Board’s responsibility for
maintaining the integrity of the plan, hereby agrees to cooperate fully with
the plan administrator in accordance with procedures established by PERS in
processing requests for withdrawal in case of an unforeseeable emergency as
defined in § 457(b)(5) and (h)(4) and (5) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Res. 344, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 36.06 IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. To outline procedures for compliance with the Fair and
Accurate Credit Transactions (FACT) Act of 2003, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et
seq., and the Oregon Information Protection Act (OIPA) of 2007, being O.R.S.
646A.600.
   (B)   Policy. It is the policy of the city to protect personal information
and comply with the FACT and the OIPA.
   (C)   Objectives.
      (1)   Safeguarding personal information. The city shall implement and
maintain reasonable safeguards to protect the security and confidentiality of
personal information, including its proper custody and disposal. Personal
information includes an employee or customer’s name in combination with a
Social Security number, state driver’s license, state identification card,
passport number or other United States issued identification number, or a
financial credit or debit card number along with a security or access code.
      (2)   Social Security numbers (SSN) protection. Printing SSNs on any
mailed materials not requested by the employee or customer unless redacted, or
on cards used to access products, services, or city buildings (such as ID
cards); or publicly posting or displaying SSNs is prohibited. Exemptions
include requirements by state or federal laws, such as W2s, W4s, 1099s, and the
like; records for use for internal verification or administrative processes;
and records used for enforcing a judgment or court order.
      (3)   Notification of security breach. In the event that personal
identifying information has been subject to a security breach, the city will
provide notification of the breach to the employee or customer as soon as
possible in writing, electronically if that is the primary manner of
communication with the employee or customer, or by telephone if the person is
contacted directly. The exception is if the notification would impede a
criminal investigation. The definition of a security breach, for the purposes
of this policy, will be when it is known that sensitive data has been lost or
out of city staff’s control.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Supervisors (City Recorder and Public Works Director) are
responsible to be familiar with the FACT and OIPA and to meet with their staff
to assess current compliance and document appropriate safeguard practices in
writing, including elements identified in division (D)(4) below. These
safeguard practices may be updated periodically to reflect changes in risks to
employees and customers from identity theft. Supervisors are also responsible
to include this policy in new employee orientation, including temporary
employees, by documenting review of this policy and the concepts in “Identity
Theft-A Business Guide,” Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services.
      (2)   The City Recorder is responsible to establish technical controls to
safeguard personal information stored in electronic format and to document
safeguard practices in writing.
      (3)   Employees are responsible to comply with this policy and any
internal processes as directed by their supervisors. Noncompliance may result
in formal disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
Employees should contact their supervisors if they have questions about
compliance with this policy.
      (4)   Red flag means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that
indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
         (a)   Identifying relevant red flags. Periodic assessments of types of
accounts maintained, methods of establishing, and accessing accounts shall be
conducted. Any notification or alert from a consumer reporting agency,
employees, customers, law enforcement authority, or other person; or
presentation of suspicious information or document shall be immediately
provided to the supervisor.
         (b)   Detecting red flags. Detection may be addressed by obtaining
verification of identifying information, monitoring transactions, and verifying
the validity of change of address requests.
         (c)   Prevention and mitigation. Appropriate responses to detected red
flags shall be commensurate with the degree of risk posed and shall include,
but are not limited to, monitoring the covered account, contacting the
customer, notifying law enforcement, or determining that no response is
warranted.
         (d)   Updating the program. Updates may occur periodically to reflect
changes in methods of identity theft, methods of detection, prevention, and
mitigation of identity theft, or types of accounts maintained.
(Res. 388, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 36.07 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS POLICY.
   (A)   Levels of requests.
      (1)   A level one request does not require a written request or payment
of a fee. Requested document must be current and readily available and require
no additional staff time or resources to be made available. These types of
documents are intended for public distribution, such as information brochures,
agendas, and permit applications.
      (2)   A level two request must be made in writing. This type of request
may require extensive staff time and/or attorney review. Request must clearly
and correctly identify the requested records. City staff furnishes written time
and cost estimate for proceeding with the request. The requestor must submit
written authorization to proceed and pay the estimated costs before any staff
time or materials are expended responding to the request.
   (B)   Records request information. A written records request shall include
the date, name, address, and contact information of the requestor and a
complete and detailed description of the materials requested and, where
relevant, the purpose for which the request is made. When known to the
requestor, the request shall include any other pertinent information, such as
file number or year of creation, which may assist city staff to readily locate
the records sought.
      (1)   The request may require follow-up by city staff to identify what is
being requested. In lieu of completing the city’s public records request form,
a written request which includes all information required on the form may be
accepted.
      (2)   The city will not author or prepare any new documents in response
to a records request. A city staff member must review the public record to make
certain the record does not contain any exempt from disclosure information
before releasing the public record. City records shall be released only under
the condition that the public records are not exempt from disclosure under
state statute.
   (C)   Inspection of records. A person making a public records request may
personally inspect the requested records, but the right to inspect records does
not include the right to rummage through file cabinets or files, or the right
to disassemble, alter, or change the order of materials in files. Except for
arrangements at the discretion of the city, inspection of public documents
shall occur during normal business hours. Any inspection shall occur at a time
mutually convenient to the requestor and the city. A city staff member must be
present while any public records are being inspected to ensure protection of
the records. Original public records shall not be taken out of the custody of
the city. A city staff member must review the public record to make certain the
record does not contain any exempt from disclosure information before releasing
the public record for inspection.
   (D)   City response and preparation of cost estimate.
      (1)   Level one request. City staff shall make every attempt to provide
information for level one requests on the same day. There is no fee for level
one requests.
      (2)   Level two request.
         (a)   City staff shall prepare an estimated cost bill reflecting the
full cost of city staff time and materials required to complete the request,
including time for retrieval, copying, preparation, assisting the requestor,
separating exempt from non-exempt materials, as provided by state statute,
organization of the results, and delivery of the search results.
         (b)   The estimated cost bill may include a fee for the cost of City
Attorney time spent to assess disclosure requirements of the information
requested, or to review the public records and redact or segregate material
into exempt and non-exempt records. There shall be no charge for the first half
hour of city staff time required to respond.
         (c)   City staff will furnish a written time and cost estimate for
proceeding with the request to the requestor within one to five business days.
The requestor must submit written authorization to proceed and pay the
estimated cost bill before any city costs are incurred responding to the
request.
   (E)   Fees, fee waivers, or reductions.
      (1)   Fee schedule.
         (a)   Letter size copy: $0.25 per sheet;
         (b)   Large (11 x 17) color copy: $0.50 per sheet;
         (c)   Large (out source) copy: at actual cost to city;
         (d)   Sound recording copy: $8 per audio tape;
         (e)   Faxes; outgoing: $2 first page, $0.50 each additional page;
         (f)   Electronic copy to CD or DVD: $13.50/disk;
         (g)   Electronic copy sent via email or loaded to requestor provided
compatible media: $0 for less than 5 MB, staff time for larger;
         (h)   Paper document scan to PDF: $0.50 per page;
         (i)   City staff time: $30/hour, minimum one-fourth hour; and
         (j)   City Planner and City Attorney: at actual cost/hourly rate.
      (2)   Waivers or reductions.
         (a)   Copies of routine materials requested by any city elected or
appointed official will be furnished without charge if the request relates to
information needed in his or her official capacity. Other materials requested
will be charged at the fee described in division (D)(1) above.
         (b)   Copies of routine materials requested by the news media will be
furnished without charge. Any non-routine materials, and any request by the
news media which requires more than one- half hour staff time will be charged
at the fee described above.
         (c)   Copies of routine materials personal to a requestor will be
furnished without charge. Any non-routine materials requested will be charged
at the fee described in division (D)(1) above.
         (d)   Routine materials are defined as those items produced during the
city’s regular course of business. Sound recording copies are not routine
materials.
         (e)   Copies of public records may be furnished without cost or at a
reduced cost, if the city determines that a waiver or reduction of fees is in
the public interest because making the record available primarily benefits the
general public.
         (f)   A person requesting a waiver or reduction of fees shall file a
written request which includes the requestor’s name and address, the purpose
for which the requestor intends to use the information, and whether the
requestor can demonstrate the ability to disseminate the information to the
public or otherwise benefit the general public with the information. A request
for waiver or reduction of fees will be presented to the City Council at the
next regular Council meeting following receipt of the request. The City Council
will review the request while considering the requestor’s ability to pay and
any financial hardship on the city that may arise from granting the waiver or
reduction. The decision of the City Council on any fee waiver or reduction is
final.
(Res. 424, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 36.08 COUNTY MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL NATURAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The city accepts and approves the county multi-jurisdictional natural hazard
mitigation plan as a reasonable process to identify and plan for potential
hazards in the city. A full copy of the plan can be found in the City
Recorder’s office.
(Res. 396, passed 9-1-2009; Res. 445, passed 10-6-2015; Res. 500-21, passed 1-
5-2021)
§ 36.09 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the Comprehensive Plan. A full copy of the plan can
be found in the City Recorder’s office.
(Res. 352, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 36.10 ESTUARINE PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the Estuarine Plan. A full copy of the plan can be
found in the City Recorder’s office.
(Res. 352, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 36.11 RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
   The city hereby adopts the following to establish and enact a records
management program.
   (A)   Goal. To establish an efficient and economic records management
program wherein records are created, maintained, retrieved, and finally
disposed of easily and wherein costs can be reduced or kept to a minimum.
   (B)   Objectives.
      (1)   To save valuable office space by systematically removing semi-
active records to a records storage area.
      (2)   To save money by providing convenient, low-cost storage and by
controlling equipment purchases.
      (3)   To save time in staff hours by developing an efficient, orderly
system for the maintenance, storage, and disposal of records.
   (C)   Policies.
      (1)   Follow the general records retention schedule of the state when
determining periods of retention for city records.
      (2)   Store only active records in office work area; “active” records
being those usually not older than two years.
      (3)   Relocate semi-active records to conveniently accessible, low-cost
storage area; “semi-active” records being those needed less frequently than
active but being retained per retention schedule requirements.
      (4)   Preserve valuable historical and vital archival records under
conditions adequate to secure records from environmental, technical and
security risks; “vital” records being those essential to the continued
functioning or reconstruction of the city.
      (5)   Establish a records inventory, workplan, and disaster recovery plan
to support retention and recovery.
      (6)   Destroy all valueless records which have met retention
requirements.
      (7)   Ensure all public records are accessible to the public, unless
exemption status is obtained.
(Res. 464, passed - -2017)
§ 36.12 NEWS MEDIA ATTENDANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Currently recognized news media organizations.
      (1)   The following entities are hereby recognized as news media
organizations eligible to attend executive sessions because they have an
established history of meeting the requirements of this policy: The News Guard
(Lincoln City), The News Times (Newport), and News Lincoln County.com.
      (2)   No other entity shall be permitted to attend an executive session
unless it is recognized through the process described in division (B) below.
   (B)   Recognition of other news media organizations.
      (1)   The following entities are recognized as news media organizations
eligible to attend executive sessions:
         (a)   A general or associate member newspaper of the Oregon Newspaper
Publishers Association, a broadcast member of the Oregon Association of
Broadcasters, or a member of the Associated Press;
         (b)   A newspaper that the city uses for publication of public notices
and that meets the requirements of O.R.S. 193.020; or
         (c)   An entity recognized by the city as being a news source that is:
            1.    Organized and operated to regularly and continuously publish,
broadcast, transmit via the internet, or otherwise disseminate news to the
public, and that regularly reports on activities of the city or matters of the
nature under consideration by the city; and
            2.   Determined by the City Council to be a business entity that is
institutionalized and that is committed to, and is structured to support, the
terms of O.R.S. 192.660(4) (representatives of the news media shall be allowed
to attend executive sessions other than those held under this section relating
to labor negotiations or executive session held pursuant to O.R.S. 332.061(2)
but the governing body may require that specified information be undisclosed.)
For the purposes of this section, institutionalized means long-established or
well-established. In making this determination, the City Council may consider
and weigh any factors that it deems to be relevant, including, without
limitation, the existence of any of the following factors:
               a.   The entity has multiple personnel with defined roles within
its organizational structure;
               b.   The names of news-reporting personnel, and responsible
entity management personnel, together with addresses and contact telephone
numbers, are readily available; and
               c.   The entity has an available process for correcting errors,
including violations of executive session statutes, by a person with authority
to take corrective measures.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be the entity’s burden to persuade the City Council
by substantial evidence that it should be recognized as a news media
organization meeting the criteria in division (B)(1) above. Such evidence must
be submitted not less than ten business days in advance of the first executive
session that the entity desires to attend. The City Council will make a
determination, in regular session, prior to the first executive session the
entity desires to attend.
         (b)   The City Council may elect to forgo this procedure in cases
where the City Council, in its sole discretion, determines that it can
immediately recognize that an entity qualifies under this policy, or in cases
where the public body, in its sole discretion, determines that other good cause
exists for making an expedited determination. A determination that the entity
is not recognized shall be based upon written findings addressing the criteria
in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Attendance at executive sessions. Representatives of news media
organizations recognized pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above shall be
allowed to attend executive sessions, except as described in O.R.S. 192.660(4)
and 192.660(5), pursuant to the following process:
      (1)   The representative must provide substantial evidence persuading the
City Council, that he or she is a news reporter for the recognized news media
organization. In making its determination whether to recognize the person as a
representative of the news media organization, the City Council shall require:
         (a)   A press badge or identification issued by the recognized news
media organization, plus proof of identity (such as a driver’s license);
         (b)   A recently published news article in the recognized news media
organization publication or broadcast, with the person’s byline, or a masthead
showing the person’s name as a member of the news gathering staff of the news
media organization, plus proof of identity; or
         (c)   A letter on letterhead from an editor of the recognized news
media organization in which the editor states that the reporter is covering the
meeting for the news media organization, plus proof of identity.
      (2)   Representatives of the news media are not permitted to attend
executive sessions involving deliberations with persons designated to carry on
labor negotiations (O.R.S. 192.660(4)). If the executive session is being held
for the purpose of conferring with counsel about current litigation or
litigation likely to be filed, the City Council shall exclude any member of the
news media from attending if the member is a party to the litigation to be
discussed or is an employee, agent, or contractor of a news media organization
that is a party to the litigation (O.R.S. 192.660(5)).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council may require that a request to attend an
executive session be made in writing on a form provided by the City Council.
         (b)   The form shall require disclosure of the person’s name, and the
entity for which he or she is a news reporter, and shall require submission of
evidence described in divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b), or (C)(1)(c) above. The
form shall also include a signature line whereby the person certifies that they
are gathering news for a recognized news media organization, that the
information given is true and that they agree to comply with O.R.S. 192.660(4).
      (4)   The City Council may consider any relevant evidence provided or
gathered in making its decision as to whether a person shall be recognized as a
representative of a recognized news media organization.
   (D)   Recording devices prohibited. Cameras, tape recorders, and other
recording devices shall not be used in executive sessions, except for the
official executive session tapes made by the city.
   (E)   Exclusion based on a direct personal interest. A representative of a
news media organization that has a direct personal interest in the subject of
the executive session that would frustrate the purpose of the executive session
may be barred from attending.
   (F)   Application to boards and commissions. These policies and procedures
shall apply to the City Council and all of its boards and commissions.
(Res. 425, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 36.13 EXCESSIVE FORCE AGAINST NON-VIOLENT CITY RIGHT DEMONSTRATORS POLICY.
   (A)   The law enforcement personnel shall not use excessive force against
any individuals engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstration.
   (B)   Applicable state and local laws that prohibit physically barring
entrance to or exist from a facility or location which is the subject of such
non-violent civil rights demonstrations within its jurisdiction shall be
enforced.
(Res. 162, passed 6-29-1992)
§ 36.14 HARBOR VESSEL CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS POLICY.
   The city does hereby approve and adopt the following rules and notices for
lighted Christmas decorations to vessels in its harbor.
   (A)   Permanent moorage holders with any length vessel moored in the harbor
may elect to be credited, and to incur no electricity charges for the last one-
half of the month of December as consideration for the lighted decorating of
their vessel.
   (B)   The city will absorb the charges for the electricity for the
approximately two-week period by method of two meter readings during that
month.
   (C)   Vessels must be adorned with lighted Christmas decorations to include,
at minimum, lights surrounding the port, starboard, and fore and aft sections
of the vessel, preferably placed on the deck railing or the hull well above the
water line.
   (D)   Vessel decorations must be lit from dusk to midnight, or lit all hours
of darkness, every day.
   (E)   The Public Works Director and Mayor, or the City Council will have
jurisdiction on the proper utilization, placement, and safety of the
decorations.
   (F)   The city may change or eliminate this policy at the discretion of the
Public Works Director and Mayor, or City Council at any time.
(Res. 466, passed 12-19-2017)
REAL PROPERTY COMPENSATION CLAIMS PROCESS
§ 36.30 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to implement the provisions added to O.R.S.
Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004). These provisions establish
a prompt, open, thorough, and consistent process that enables property owners
an adequate and fair opportunity to present their claims to the city; preserves
and protects limited public funds; and establishes a record of the city’s
decision capable of circuit court review.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY RECORDER. The City Recorder of the city, or his or her designee.
   CLAIM. A claim filed under Ballot Measure 37, passed November 2, 2004.
   EXEMPT LAND USE REGULATION. A land use regulation that:
      (1)   Restricts or prohibits activities commonly and historically
recognized as public nuisances under common law;
      (2)   Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public
health and safety, such as fire and building codes, health and sanitation
regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations, and pollution control
regulations;
      (3)   Is required in order to comply with federal law;
      (4)   Restricts or prohibits the use of property for the purpose of
selling pornography or performing nude dancing; or
      (5)   Was enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by the
owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior to
acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred first.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Includes the wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father,
brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent,
stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, an estate
of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or
combination of these family members or the owner of the property.
   LAND USE REGULATION. Includes:
      (1)    Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest therein;
      (2)   Administrative rules and goals of the Land Conservation and
Development Commission;
      (3)   Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, land
division ordinances, and transportation ordinances; and
      (4)   Statutes and administrative rules regulating forest practices.
   OWNER. The present owner of the property, or any interest therein.
   VALID CLAIM. A claim submitted by the owner of real property that is subject
to a land use regulation adopted or enforced by the city that restricts the use
of the private real property in a manner that reduces the fair market value of
the real property. A claim must be submitted within two years of the effective
date of Ballot Measure 37, passed November 2, 2004, or within two years of the
effective date of any land use regulation.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.32 CLAIM FILING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A person seeking to file a claim under §§
34.30 through
34.36 of this chapter must be the present owner of the property that is the
subject of the claim at the time the claim is submitted. The claim shall be
filed with the City Recorder’s office, or another city office if so designated
by the City Recorder. A claim shall include:
      (1)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of all owners,
and anyone with any interest in the property, including lien holders, trustees,
renters, lessees, and a description of the ownership interest of each;
      (2)   The address, tax lot, and legal description of the real property
that is the subject of the claim, together with a title report issued no more
than 30 days prior to the submission of the claim that reflects the ownership
interest in the property, or other documentation reflecting sole ownership of
the property by the claimant, and the date the property was acquired;
      (3)   The current land use regulation(s) that allegedly restricts the use
of the real property and allegedly causes a reduction in the fair market value
of the subject property;
      (4)   The amount of the claim, based on the alleged reduction in value of
the real property supported by an appraisal by an appraiser licensed by the
Appraiser Certification and Licensure Board of the state; and
      (5)   Copies of any leases or covenants, conditions, and restrictions
(CCRs) applicable to the real property, if any, that impose restrictions on the
use of the property.
   (B)   Notwithstanding a claimant’s failure to provide all of the information
required by division (B) above, the city may review and act on a claim.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.33 CITY RECORDER INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Following an investigation of a claim, the City Recorder shall forward
a recommendation to the City Council that the claim be:
      (1)   Denied;
      (2)   Investigated further;
      (3)   Declared valid, and waive or modify the land use regulation, or
compensate the claimant upon completion of an appraisal; or
      (4)   Evaluated with the possibility of the city acquiring the property
by condemnation.
   (B)   If the City Recorder’s recommendation is that a claim be denied, and
no elected official informs the City Recorder within 14 days that the official
disagrees, then the City Recorder may deny the claim. If an elected official
objects, then the City Recorder shall wait an additional seven days to see
whether three more elected officials object to the proposed denial. If they do,
then the City Recorder shall schedule a work session with the City Council. If
not, the City Recorder may deny the claim.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.34 CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING.
   The City Council may conduct a public hearing before taking final action on
a recommendation from the City Recorder. Notice of the public hearing shall be
provided to the claimant, to owners and occupants of property within 300 feet
of the perimeter of the subject property, and neighborhood groups or community
organizations officially recognized by the City Council whose boundaries
include the subject property.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.35 CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON CLAIM.
   (A)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing, and prior to the expiration of
180 days from the date the claim was filed, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Determine that the claim is a valid claim and remove or modify the
challenged land use regulation(s) with respect to the subject property;
      (2)   Determine that the claim is a valid claim and compensation is due
to the claimant in an amount set forth in the Council’s resolution;
      (3)   Determine that the claim is a valid claim and that the city should
acquire the property; or
      (4)   Deny the claim.
   (B)   The City Council’s decision to waive or modify a land use regulation
or to compensate the owner shall be based on whether the City Council
determines the public interest would be better served by compensating the owner
or by removing or modifying the challenged land use regulation with respect to
the subject property.
   (C)   If the City Council removes or modifies the challenged land use
regulation, it may, at its discretion, put back into effect with respect to the
subject property, all of the land use regulations in effect at the time the
claimant acquired the property.
   (D)   A decision by the City Council to remove or modify a land use
regulation shall be personal to the claimant(s) and shall automatically become
invalid and void upon the transfer of any ownership interest in the subject
property by the claimant to anyone other than a family member. Following the
voiding of the decision because of a transfer, any use of the property must be
consistent with all regulations in effect at the time of transfer, or
thereafter amended. Should a development or use not be consistent with such
regulations, then the use may be declared a public nuisance and abated as
provided under city law. If the City Council adopts a resolution under
divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above, the City Recorder shall record on the
property a copy of the resolution with county records.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.36 REAL PROPERTY COMPENSATION; PRIVATE CAUSE OF ACTION.
   If the City Council’s approval of a claim by removing or modifying a land
use regulation causes a reduction in value of other property located in the
vicinity of the claimant, the neighbor(s) shall have a cause of action in state
circuit court to recover from the claimant the amount of the reduction, and
shall also be entitled to attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.37 PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall maintain a record of the city’s costs in
processing a claim, including the costs of obtaining information required by §
36.32 of this subchapter which a property owner does not provide to the city.
Following final action by the city on the claim at the local level, the City
Recorder shall send to the property owner a bill for the actual costs,
including staff and legal costs, that the city incurred in reviewing and acting
on the claim. The fees and a deposit to ensure payment thereof shall be set by
resolution and may, from time to time, be amended by the City Council. If the
property owner does not pay the amount due within 30 days, then the city shall
pursue collection, including filing a lien on the property.
(Ord. 269, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 36.38 FEES.
   (A)   The fees and deposit for processing real estate claims under this
subchapter shall be as set forth in below until such time as further amended by
Council resolution:
      (1)   Upon the filing of a real estate claim under this subchapter, a
claimant shall pay a deposit sum, the amount set by the City Council by
resolution from time to time;
      (2)   The deposit amount shall be the initial deposit by the applicant
for the purpose of reimbursing the city for costs incurred by the city in
processing the claim. While the application is pending, if it appears to the
City Recorder that the deposit is insufficient to pay for all of the city’s
costs in processing the claim, the City Recorder shall demand such additional
amount of deposit as in the City Recorder’s opinion is necessary to assure
additional funds available to pay anticipated additional costs. The claimant
may appeal the City Recorder’s decision to the City Council. Until such time as
any additional deposit is paid, following demand by the City Recorder, the City
Recorder shall notify the City Council that processing the claim shall be
suspended until such time as the additional deposit is paid to the city; and
      (3)   The City Recorder shall establish an appropriate account for the
purpose of holding the deposit until such time as the actual costs to the city
have been ascertained, either upon conclusion of the process or from time to
time, and upon such determination of the actual costs, the City Recorder shall
transfer such portion of the deposit from the account to reimburse the city for
its costs and expenses. Upon conclusion of the processing, and determination of
all actual costs, any remaining deposit shall be reimbursed to the claimant.
   (B)   The costs to the city of processing the claim shall be determined by
application of the rates set forth in §
34.03 of this title and/or the actual charges to the city by contractors,
including but not limited to, attorneys and appraisers, providing services in
processing the claim.
(Res. 345, passed 11-22-2004; Res. 514-21, passed 9-21-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Water and sewer connection and installation charges
Systems Development Charges
   
50.15   Purpose
   
50.16   Scope
   
50.17   Definitions
   
50.18   System development charges established
   
50.19   Methodology
   
50.20   Compliance with state law
   
50.21   Collection of charge
   
50.22   Exemptions
   
50.23   Credits
   
50.24   Appeal procedures
   
50.25   Prohibited connection
   
50.26   Enforcement
   
50.27   Classification of fee
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION CHARGES.
   (A)   The fees and charges for labor and materials for inspections and
installation to the city water and city sewer systems shall be modified and
imposed annually by resolution of the City Council in accordance with Ordinance
223-304.
   (B)   For the fiscal years 1997 through 1998 and thereafter, the amounts of
the fees and charges forth herein shall be adjusted to reflect change in the
consumer’s price index (“CPI”) for the Portland Metropolitan Area. The dollar-
unit for any future inspection and installation charge adjustments shall be
based on the percentage change relative to changes in the CPI using January 1,
1997 as the “base year” and January 1 preceding the fiscal year.
   (C)   This annual adjustment based on the percentage change of the CPI shall
automatically be imposed effective on July 1 of the fiscal year unless a
written request is filed with the City Recorder not later than February 15
preceding the applicable fiscal year, requesting City Council determination as
to the adjusted inspection and installation fees and charges for the upcoming
fiscal year. If such a request for a determination is filed, the person(s)
filing the request shall have the burden of showing that the adjustment
resulting from the CPI adjustment and the resulting fees and charges for
inspection and installation does not substantially reflect the city’s actual
labor and materials cost for the inspection and/or installation, and shall show
what the adjustment rate of what the actual costs are.
   (D)   Charges for new service connections, in addition to system development
charges (SDC), shall be set by the City Council annually by resolution
effective July 1 of each fiscal year.
(Res. 234, passed 10-7-1996)
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 50.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the systems development charge (SDC) is to promote the
objective of future systems users contributing an equitable share to the public
costs of existing facilities and to impose an equitable share of the public
costs of capital improvements upon those developments that create the need for,
or increase the demands, on capital improvements.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.16 SCOPE.
   (A)   The systems development charge imposed by this subchapter is separate
from and in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge, fee in lieu of
assessment, or fee otherwise provided by law or imposed as a condition of
development.
   (B)   A systems development charge is to be considered in the nature of a
charge for service rendered or facilities made available, or a charge for
future services to be rendered on facilities to be made available in the
future.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT(S). Public facilities or assets used for any of the
following:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment, and distribution;
      (2)   Sanitary sewer (wastewater) collection, transmission, treatment,
and bio-solids management;
      (3)   Storm water drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation, including but not limited to streets, sidewalks,
bike lanes and pathways, street lights, traffic signs and signals, street
trees, public transportation, vehicle parking, and bridges; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation, including but not limited to parks, park
facilities, trails, land acquisition, restrooms, playground equipment,
landscaping, and signs.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN (CIP). A public facilities plan, master plan, or
comparable plan that includes a list of the capital improvements that may be
funded with improvement fee revenues and the estimated cost and timing for each
improvement. The CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN and list may be modified at any
time.
   DEVELOPMENT. Constructing or enlarging a building or adding facilities, or
making a physical change in the use of a structure or land, which increases the
usage of any capital improvements or which will contribute to the need for
additional or enlarged capital improvements.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with projected capital
improvements needed to increase the capacity of the systems to which the fee is
related. (This term shall have the same meaning as the term “improvement fee”
as used in O.R.S. 223.297 through 223.314.)
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
      (1)   A capital improvement that is required as a condition of
development approval, is identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
50.20(B) of this subchapter and is either:
         (a)   Not located on or contiguous to property that is the subject of
development approval; or
         (b)   Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is
the subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with
greater capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to
which the improvement fee is related.
      (2)   A QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT does not include improvements sized
or established to meet only the demands created by the development.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with existing capital
improvements at the time the fee is adopted pursuant to §
50.18 of this subchater. (This term shall have the same meaning as the term
“reimbursement fee” as used in O.R.S. 223.297 through 223.314.)
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE (SDC). A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee, or
a combination thereof, assessed or collected at any of the times specified in §
50.21 of this subchapter. The SDC shall not include installation or inspection
fees for water, sanitary sewer, or storm water drain connections, since such
fees are designed by the city only to reimburse the city for the costs of such
connections. Nor shall the SDC include costs for capital improvements which by
city policy and state statute are paid for by assessments, or fees in lieu of
assessments, for projects of special benefit to a property.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.18 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
Water and Wastewater Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)
Development Type EDUs per Unit
Water and Wastewater Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)
Development Type                        EDUs per Unit
Manufactured home                       1
Multi-family dwelling                   1
Other commercial                        Determined by water meter size or
                                        projected water usage
RV parks and campgrounds                .5
Single-family dwelling                  1
Tourist accommodations (such as, hotel/ 1
motel units with bathroom only)
Tourist accommodations (such as, hotel/
motel units with kitchens or fixtures   1
other than a bathroom)
 
Equivalent EDUs by Meter Size Based on Equivalent Flow Capacity of Meters
Meter Size Rated Flow (gpm) 5/8” x 3/4” EquivalEDUs
Equivalent EDUs by Meter Size Based on Equivalent Flow Capacity of Meters
Meter Size  Rated Flow (gpm) 5/8” x 3/4” EquivalEDUs
5/8” - 3/420              1                      1
1”        50               2.5                    2.5
1-1/2”    70               5                      5
2”        100              8                      8
3”        160              16                     16
4”        500              25                     25
6”        1,000            50                     50
8”        1,500            80                     80
 
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003; Res. 413, passed 6-21-2011; Res. 513-21, passed 9-
7-2021)
§ 50.19 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish or modify a reimbursement fee shall
consider the cost of the existing assets or facilities, prior contributions by
existing users, gifts, or grants from federal or state government or private
persons, the value of unused capacity available to future system users, rate-
making principles employed to finance publicly-owned capital improvements and
other relevant factor’s identified by the local government imposing the fee.
The methodology for establishing or modifying a reimbursement fee shall promote
the objective of future system users contributing no more than an equitable
share to the cost of existing facilities.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish or modify an improvement fee shall
consider the cost of projected capital improvements needed to increase the
capacity of the system to which the fee is related and shall provide for a
credit against the improvement fee for construction of any qualified public
improvement in the respective capital improvement plan. The methodology for
establishing or modifying an improvement fee shall be calculated to obtain the
cost of capital improvements for the projected need for available system
capacity for future users.
   (C)   The methodology shall also provide for a credit as authorized in §
50.23 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Except when authorized in the methodology adopted under division (A)
above, the fees required by this subchapter which are assessed or collected as
part of a local improvement district ,or a charge in lieu of a local
improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with requirements or
conditions imposed by a land use decision are separate from and in addition to
the systems development charge and shall not be used as a credit against such
charge.
   (E)   The methodologies used to establish or modify the systems development
charge shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council following a public
hearing. The systems development charge may be adopted and amended concurrent
with the establishment of modification of the systems development methodology.
The city field superintendent shall periodically review the methodologies
established under this section and shall recommend amendments to the City
Council, if and as needed.
   (F)   The methodologies may include, as part of the cost of the qualified
capital improvements in the capital improvement plan, the costs of complying
with the provisions of O.R.S. 223.297 through 223.314 and of this subchapter,
including the cost, of development of systems development charge methodologies,
and accountings of systems development charge expenditures.
   (G)   The formulas and calculations used to compute specific systems
development charges are based upon averages and typical conditions. Whenever
the impact of individual developments present special or unique situations such
that the calculated fee is grossly disproportionate to the actual impact of the
development, alternative fee calculations may be approved or required by the
city field superintendent under administrative procedures prescribed by the
City Council. All data submitted to support alternate calculations under this
provision shall be site specific. Major or unique developments may require
special analysis to determine alternatives to the standard methodology.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.20 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   The revenues received from the systems development charges shall be
budgeted and expended as provided by state law (O.R.S. 223.297 through
223.314). Such revenues and expenditures shall be accounted for as required by
state law. Their reporting shall be included in the city’s comprehensive annual
financial report required by O.R.S. Chapter 294, including a list of the amount
spent on each project funded, in whole or in part, with system development
charges.
   (B)   The capital improvement plan (CIP) required by state law as the basis
for expending the improvement fee component of system development charge
revenues shall be the city’s capital improvements plan, public facility plan,
master plan, and the capital improvements plan of any other governmental entity
with which the city has a cooperative agreement for the financing of commonly
used public improvements by the collection of systems development charges,
provided the plan is based on methodologies conforming with state law and is
consistent with the city’s CIP and the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.21 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   The systems development charge is payable upon, and as a condition of,
issuance or approval of:
      (1)   A building or plumbing permit for a development;
      (2)   A permit for a development not requiring the issuance of a building
permit;
      (3)   A permit or other authorization to connect to the capital
improvement facility;
      (4)   A planning action or change in occupancy (as defined in the Uniform
Building Code) that will increase the demands on any public facility for which
systems development charges are charged; or
      (5)   If no building, development, or connection permit is required, the
system development charge is payable at the time usage of the capital
improvement commences or is increased.
   (B)   If development is commenced, or connection is made to a public
facility without an appropriate permit, the systems development charge is
immediately payable upon the earliest date that a permit was required, and it
will be unlawful for anyone to continue with the construction or use
constituting a development until the charge has been paid or payment secured to
the satisfaction of the City Council.
   (C)   Any and all persons causing a development or making application for
the needed permit, or otherwise responsible for the development, are jointly
and severally obligated to pay the charge, and the City Recorder may collect
said charge form any of them. The city field superintendent, City Planner, or
his or her designee shall not issue any permit or allow connections described
in division (A) above until the charge has been paid in full or until an
adequate secured arrangement for its payment has been made, within the limits
prescribed by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   The conditions under which all or part of the systems development charges
imposed in §
50.18 of this subchapter may be waived are as follows.
   (A)   If the development occurred prior to September 1, 1997, a credit shall
be given for the amount of water and sanitary sewer (wastewater) system charges
previously paid, which shall be applied to the systems development charges owed
hereunder. After July 1, 2001, this credit will expire in accordance with state
law (O.R.S. 223.304).
   (B)   Housing for low-income or elderly persons which is exempt from real
property taxes under state law.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
Editor’s note:
   There are only subdivisions (a) and (b) under O.R.S. 223.304(4), as follows:
    (4) The ordinance or resolution that establishes or modifies an improvement
fee shall also provide for a credit against such fee for the construction of a
qualified public improvement. A “qualified public improvement” means a capital
improvement that is required as a condition of development approval, identified
in the plan and list adopted pursuant to O.R.S. 223.309, and either:
    (a) Not located on or contiguous to property that is the subject of
development approval; or
    (b) Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is the
subject of development approval and required to be built larger or with greater
capacity than is necessary for the particular development project to which the
improvement fee is related.
§ 50.23 CREDITS.
   (A)   When development occurs that gives rise to systems development charges
under §
50.18 of this subchapter, the systems development charge for the existing use
shall be calculated and if it is less than the systems development charge for
the proposed use, the difference between the charge for the existing use and
the proposed use shall be the systems development charge required under §
50.18 of this subchapter. If the change in use results in the systems
development charge for the proposed use being less than the systems development
charge for the existing use, no systems development charge shall be required;
however, no refund or credit shall be given.
   (B)   The limitations on the use of credits contained in this division (B)
shall not apply when credits are otherwise given under §
50.21 of this subchapter. A credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified
public improvement associated with a development, including utility line
extensions pursuant to city ordinance. If a qualified public improvement is
located partially on and partially off the property that is the subject of
development approval, the credit shall be given only for the cost of the
portion of the improvement not attributable wholly to the development. The
credit provided for by this division (B) shall be only for the type of capital
improvement being constructed and shall not exceed the public improvement fee
portion of the systems development charge even if the cost of the capital
improvement exceeds the applicable improvement fee. Credits will expire ten
years from the date the credit is given. Where credit is granted for
subdivisions, the credit shall be apportioned equally among all residential
lots. Credits for other types of developments shall be allocated to building
permits on a first-come, first serve basis until credit is depleted.
   (C)   Applying the methodology adopted by resolution, the city field
superintendent or his or her designee, shall grant a credit against the
improvement fee portion of the systems development charge, for a capital
improvement constructed as part of the development that reduces the
development’s demand upon existing capital improvements or the need for future
capital improvements or that would otherwise have to be provided at city
expense under city policies in effect at the time.
   (D)   In situations where the amount of credit exceeds the amount of the
systems development charge, the excess credit is not transferable to another
development. It may be transferred to another phase of the original
development, provided transfer is completed within three years. Any credit not
transferred to other phases of the development within three years shall become
non-transferable.
   (E)   Credits are not transferable from one type of capital improvement to
another.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.24 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   As used in this section, WORKING DAY means a day when the offices of the
city are open to transact business with the public.
   (A)   Any person who makes a written objection to the calculation of a
systems development charge has the right to petition for review pursuant to
O.R.S. 34.010 through 34.100.
   (B)   When an appeal is filed challenging the methodology adopted by the
City Council, the appellant shall submit data and analysis in support of appeal
at the time of filing the appeal and shall comply with division (E) below. The
city field superintendent shall prepare a written report and recommendation
within 20 working days of receipt for presentation to the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council shall by resolution approve, modify or reject the
report and recommendation, or may adopt a revised methodology by resolution, if
required. Legal action intended to contest the methodology used for calculating
a system development charge may not be filed after 60 days following adoption
or modification of the system development charge ordinance or resolution. A
person shall request judicial review of the methodology used for calculating a
systems development charge only as provided in O.R.S. 34.010 to 34.100.
   (C)   A person objecting to a decision required or permitted to be made by
the city field superintendent, City Recorder, or his or her designee under §§
50.15 through
50.23 of this subchapter may appeal the decision by filing a written request
with the City Recorder for consideration by the City Council. Such appeal shall
describe with particularity the decision to which the person objects and shall
comply with division (E) below. The appeal must be filed within ten working
days of the date of the decision.
   (D)   A person challenging an expenditure of systems development charge
revenue may do so by filing the challenge in writing for consideration by the
City Council. Such challenge shall describe with particularity the expenditure
being challenged and shall comply with division (E) below. A challenge of an
expenditure of system development revenue must be filed within two years of the
expenditure.
   (E)   (1)   The appeal or challenge shall state:
         (a)   The name and address of the appellant;
         (b)   The nature and date of the determination or expenditure being
appealed or challenged;
         (c)   The reason the determination or expenditure is believed to be
incorrect; and
         (d)   What the correct determination or expenditure should be.
      (2)   An appellant who fails to file such a statement within the time
permitted waives any objections, and the appeal shall be dismissed.
   (F)   Unless the appellant and the city agree to a longer period, an appeal
or challenge shall be heard by the City Council within 30 days of the filing
date of the written appeal or challenge. Not less than ten days prior to the
hearing, the city shall mail notice of the time and location thereof to the
appellant.
   (G)   The City Council shall hear and determine the appeal or challenge on
the basis of the filed written statement and any additional evidence the
appellant deems appropriate. At the hearing, the appellant may present
testimony and oral argument personally or by counsel. The city may present
written or oral testimony at the same hearing. The rules of evidence as used by
courts of law do not apply.
   (H)   The appellant shall carry the burden of proving that the determination
or expenditure being challenged is incorrect and what the correct determination
should be.
   (I)   The City Council shall render its decision within 15 days after the
hearing date and the decision of the Council shall be final. The decision shall
be in writing but written findings shall not be made or required unless the
Council elects to make findings for precedential purposes. Any legal action
contesting the Council’s decision on the appeal shall be filed within 60 days
of the decision.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.25 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect any premises for service, or cause the same to be
connected, to any sanitary sewer (wastewater) system, water system, or storm
water system of the city unless the appropriate systems development charge has
been paid or payment has been secured as provided in the ordinance.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any services connected to city water, sanitary sewer, or storm water system
for which the systems development charge due hereunder has not been paid as
required or an adequate secured arrangement for its payment has been made, is
subject to termination of service under the city’s utility disconnect policy.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.27 CLASSIFICATION OF FEE.
   System development charges as set forth in this subchapter are classified as
not subject to the limits of § 11b of Article XI of the Oregon Constitution
(Measure 5).
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine in accordance with
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Generally
   
51.01   Water service rates
   
51.02   Lines for connection and connection charges
   
51.03   Change of use
   
51.04   Use of water
   
51.05   Installation of water lines and maintenance
   
51.06   Property in unit or condominium unit ownership
   
51.07   Water line extensions
   
51.08   Miscellaneous regulations and enforcement procedures
   
51.09   Termination of water service
   
51.10   Water rates and fees
Backflow Prevention
   
51.25   Responsibility
   
51.26   Definitions
   
51.27   Administration
   
51.28   Requirements
   
51.29   Degree of hazard
   
51.30   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
51.31   Periodic testing
   
51.32   Records and reports
   
51.33   Fees and charges
Determination of Water Shortage
   
51.45   Purposes and determination
   
51.46   Water conservation actions
   
51.47   Suspension of water service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 51.01 WATER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   The owner of the property to which water and sewer service is provided
shall be the party responsible for payment of all water and sewer service and
usage charges. The obligation for payment of water and sewer service and usage
charges shall become due and payable ten days after mailing date and shall be
delinquent 30 days thereafter, whether or not any dwelling, building, or
premises on the property is occupied or there is actual use.
   (B)   Water service rates shall be charged based upon the development type
on the property, as calculated by “equivalent dwelling units” (EDU) and
“equivalent EDUs” set forth in §
50.18 of this title.
   (C)   Water service and usage rates and miscellaneous service fees shall be
per §
51.10 of this subchapter.
   (D)   In the event a water meter is out of order or cannot be read, the
monthly usage charge shall be based on the customer’s average water usage
during the previous six months.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 251, passed 7-5-2000)
§ 51.02 LINES FOR CONNECTION AND CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   No connection shall be made to the city’s water system without the
prior approval of the city, which must be issued in writing in the form of a
permit.
   (B)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any city water system or appurtenances thereto, and no
person, firm, or corporation shall make any connections in any part of the
water system without first making an application to the city and securing a
permit therefor.
   (C)   Prior to receiving a permit to connect to the city’s water system, the
applicant shall first pay the connection charges as established herein.
   (D)   The connection charge to be paid shall be based upon the number of
“connection units.” A connection unit is defined as follows:
      (1)   For each single-family dwelling, there is one connection unit;
      (2)   For each mobile home, there is one connection unit;
      (3)   As to multiple family dwellings, including apartment houses,
condominiums, cottages, and duplexes, there is one connection unit per each
family or dwelling unit contained in the structure or upon the premises;
      (4)   For motor courts, motels, and hotels, there shall be one connection
unit per each dwelling unit contained within the structure or upon premises;
      (5)   For trailer courts, recreational vehicle courts, and mobile home
courts, there is one connection unit for each base upon which a trailer, mobile
home, or recreational vehicle may be located or placed; and
      (6)   For commercial buildings to be occupied by more than one business,
there shall be one connection unit for each business space upon the premises.
   (E)   The connection fee shall be per §
50.01 of this title.
   (F)   The City Council hereby finds that the fees, charges, and assessments
under this subchapter are for the purposes of reimbursing the city for past
capital construction costs for the water treatment facilities in order to
provide sufficient capacity for properties to connect and to provide a
sufficient reserve for future expansion as necessitated by connection to the
water facilities.
      (1)   The connection charges imposed by this subchapter are not intended
to be a tax on property or on a property owner as a direct consequence of
ownership of property within the meaning of § 11b, Article XI of the Oregon
Constitution or the legislation implementing that section. Even if the charges
herein imposed are viewed under § 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution as
a tax against property or against a property owner as a direct consequence of
ownership of that property, it is an incurred charge within the meaning of that
section and the statutes implementing it because:
         (a)   It allows the owner to control the quantity of the service by
determining the extent of development to occur upon the property;
         (b)   It allows the owner to determine when the service is to be
initiated or increased by controlling when the development occurs; or
         (c)   State law and the ordinances of the city require the owner to
provide certain basic utility services to the property when it is developed for
human occupancy. The provision of these basic utility services are a routine
obligation of the owner of the affected property and essential to the health
and safety of the community.
      (2)   Therefore, the Council finds and determines that such fees, charges
and assessments do not constitute a tax and are not subject to the limits of §
1b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 165, passed 7-1-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 CHANGE OF USE.
   If an existing water user modifies the manner in which he or she is
utilizing his or her premises so as to increase what would otherwise be
considered to be the number of connection units, thereon, he or she shall first
apply to the city for a change of water service permit and shall pay an
additional connection charge for each additional connection unit resulting from
the change in service, if any.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989)
§ 51.04 USE OF WATER.
   (A)   No person shall supply water to any other property or structures or
for any other purposes, other than as specified in the application.
   (B)   In the event a parcel of property which has a single connection to the
water system is divided by sale or other conveyance, the water user shall not
continue to serve such portion of the property which has a separate owner. The
property or premises which have been separated from the property originally for
connection must be submitted to the city and the appropriate connection fees
paid.
   (C)   There shall be a separate supply line and meter to each parcel of
property.
   (D)   Users of the city’s water system shall install necessary safeguards to
protect any and all equipment, appliances, and other items from damage as a
result of temporary termination of water service, whether terminated with or
without notice.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION OF WATER LINES AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant shall install such necessary water lines from the
applicant’s property to an adjacent appropriate water line or water main. The
appropriate water line or water main shall be determined by the city field
supervisor. The size of the water line to be constructed by the applicant, and
the placement of the water line from the existing water main shall be
determined by the city field supervisor, taking into consideration the
projected number of future connections to the water line, the best means to
service the applicant, and projected future water connections in the area, and
for the best overall development of the city water line system. The applicant
shall bear the cost for construction and installation of the water line being
extended or connected from the water main or water line to the boundary of the
applicant’s property line.
      (2)   Upon payment of the appropriate connection charges, the city shall
provide to the applicant a water meter for connection to the water line, at
such location as specified by the City Supervisor. The construction and
installation shall be performed in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the city, and subject to the approval of the city field supervisor. The
applicant shall bear the cost for installation of the construction and
installation of the water line and water meter. All work shall be performed by
qualified persons; provided, however, that the applicant may contract with the
city to perform such service, upon payment of such fees and charges for labor
and materials as the city shall establish from time to time.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay the cost of connecting the water line from the
owner’s property line to the remainder of the premises. However, all plumbing
in connection with the use of water shall conform to the Building Code and
shall be subject to inspection by the city. The property owner shall be
required to maintain all plumbing from the property line on the premises
supplied with water in good repair and shall correct any deficiencies which
result in leakage of water or other risk of injury to the health and welfare of
the other occupants of the city.
   (C)   All meters, together with service mains and connections, up to and
including the curb cock, shall be the property of the city and it shall be
unlawful for any person, except an employee of the city to interfere therewith.
Any damage caused by unauthorized persons will be repaired by the city and
charges will be bill to the water user.
   (D)   All users of the city’s municipal water system shall allow agents and/
or employees of the city to inspect at reasonable times all portions of the
user’s buildings and premises in which water may be delivered from the city’s
water system, for the purpose of inspecting the condition of pipes, fixtures,
and meters, and the manner in which the water is used.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 189, passed 4-5-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PROPERTY IN UNIT OR CONDOMINIUM UNIT OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Residential property in unit or condominium unit ownership refers to
such property as defined by O.R.S. 100.055(11).
   (B)   All water furnished to general common elements and limited common
elements of condominium property shall be furnished through a meter separate
from that of those furnishing the units, and a separate connection charge per §
50.01 of this title shall be paid.
   (C)   Water may be supplied to the units by either of the following methods:
      (1)   Through a master meter, which shall supply all units. The billing
shall be sent to such person as designated by the residential condominium
association or, if no such person has been designated, to the residential
condominium or any unit owner thereof. The unit owners and the residential
condominium association shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of
the monthly water service charge; or
      (2)   A separate service and meter with a suitable shutoff valve may be
installed for each unit, in which event such unit shall be charged as a
“single-family dwelling.” City employees shall have the right of access to all
shutoff valves.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989)
§ 51.07 WATER LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   If any person or the city extends the city’s water lines or water
mains at their own or the city’s expense, and in accordance herewith in order
to provide service to property, and by there doing extends a water line or
water main adjacent to property in a public right-of-way so that water service
is available to such other property, to the extent that no connections other
than those between the residence and the property line are required, then, and
in that event, the city shall require the owner of the other property to which
service has been provided to pay, prior to allowing a permit to connect to the
water system, in addition to other connection charges as required by the city,
a pro-rata portion of the cost of extension taking into consideration all
properties served thereby.
      (1)   Property owners who connect to an extension which was constructed
by a private individual or the city hereunder, and who are required by the
terms hereof to reimburse that person or the city, shall pay in addition to the
connection charges required by the city ordinances, that pro-rata portion of
the cost of constructing the extension prior to connecting to the city’s water
system, and the city shall in turn pay this pro-rata portion to the person who
constructed the extension if the extension was constructed by a private
individual or shall retain such monies if the extension was constructed by the
city.
      (2)   The right to such reimbursement shall not continue for more than
ten years after the date of installation of the extension of the water line or
water main, nor after sale of property to which the extension was originally
made.
      (3)   Within 30 days after the completion of the construction of an
extension, a person who desires to take advantage of the provisions of this
subchapter, if the extension were constructed by a private individual, must
certify to the City Council the total cost of constructing the extension, which
sum must be itemized. If the extension is constructed by the city, the cost of
constructing the extension shall be such sum as approved by the City Council
for administrative, legal, engineering, and inspection of the water line or
lateral.
   (B)   If a property owner desires water service for any parcel of real
property which is not adjacent to a street which has a water main located
therein, the property owner may, subject to the approval of the city, extend
the city’s municipal water line to provide service. However, any extension of
the water line must be in a manner to facilitate further extension and the
providing of water service to other properties in the area.
   (C)   Detailed construction plans and specifications for the proposed water
extension shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer and shall be
subject to review and approval by the city. The property owner shall revise the
construction plans and specifications as required by the city, and once the
plans and specifications have been approved, the city shall issue a
construction permit.
   (D)   After the construction permit has been issued, the permittee may then
construct the line extension in accordance with the plans and specifications
and in accordance with the rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city.
   (E)   No water line being constructed shall be covered until it is inspected
and tested to the satisfaction of the city.
   (F)   The city may require a performance bond from the applicant prior to
issuing any permit to extend a municipal water line.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 189, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 51.08 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to providing water service, the city shall require a prospective
owner to file an application for service with the city setting forth the
applicant’s name, address, and other information required by the city. At such
time as there is a new owner of the property, the new owner shall apply for
service and provide the same application as required for the original service
being provided to the premises.
   (B)   The owner of the property to which the water service is provided shall
be and is legally obligated to pay all of the monthly water service and usage
charges and any and all other charges which become due pursuant to the terms of
the ordinance, whether supplied to the owner, renter, or other occupant
thereof. The city shall have a lien against the property to which the service
is provided for the non-payment of all charges due.
   (C)   If any person tenders a check as payment, and the check is returned to
the city for non-payment for any reason, the person who tendered the check
shall be indebted to the city for an additional returned check fee as
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 251, passed 7-5-2000)
§ 51.09 TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water service to any property or structure in
the event that the charges due from those premises for water service and/or
sewer service are delinquent in excess of 30 days. In addition, the city may
terminate water service in the event that the premises and/or the occupants
thereof are in violation of the terms of any and all ordinances relating to
water and/or sewer service and such violation is provided to premises. Prior to
terminating water service, the city shall post written notice of its intent to
do so in plain view on the premises at least ten days prior to terminating
water service, which notice shall advise the occupants of the premises of the
reason for the intended action and it shall also advise that the occupants may
request a hearing before the Superintendent of municipal services or the City
Recorder if a hearing is desired. If after the ten-day notice, the violation is
not cured and if a hearing is requested and the decision is adverse to the
applicant, the water service to the property shall be terminated.
   (B)   Upon complete removal of all existing buildings or structures which
could be used for human occupancy or otherwise containing plumbing facilities
from a property being served by water, and after written request from the
owner, the city shall disconnect the water service and remove the water meter.
   (C)   Upon termination of water service, the monthly water service charges
shall be discontinued.
   (D)   From the date of termination of water service to the premises, any
remaining structures shall not be used for human occupancy, employment or
recreation, nor shall any structures located thereon contain plumbing or toilet
facilities.
   (E)   At such time in the future as water service is requested for the
premises or otherwise required by the city’s ordinances, permits shall be
obtained by the owner to connect to water the connection charges then in effect
for water shall be paid, provided that the applicant shall receive a credit
against the amount of such water connection charges in an amount equal to the
water connection charges originally paid by the owners of the property prior to
discontinuance of water service.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989)
§ 51.10 WATER RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   A water rate study that will analyze the sufficiency of water rate
revenues against the financial obligations of the utility and utilize the
financial plan identified by the rate adjustment shall be established for a
ten-year planning period by resolution.
   (B)   New customer account setup/processing fee shall be set by the City
Council by resolution from time to time.
   (C)   Water turn-on or turn-off fee (upon property owner’s request or
pursuant to this subchapter) shall be set by the City Council by resolution
from time to time.
   (D)   Termination notice fee (§
51.09 of this subchapter) shall be set by the City Council by resolution from
time to time.
   (E)   Lien filing or satisfaction of lien filing fee shall be set by the
City Council by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 165, passed 7-1-1991; Ord. 251, passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 288, passed 7-20-
2010; Res. 513-21, passed 9-7-2021)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 51.25 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The City Supervisor shall be responsible for the protection of the
public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to
the backflow or backsiphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the City Supervisor, an approved backflow
device is required at the city’s water connection to any customer’s premises,
the City Supervisor, or delegated agent, shall give notice in writing to said
customer to install an approved backflow prevention device at each service
connection to the customer’s premises.
   (C)   The customer shall, within 90 days, install such approved device, or
devices, at the customer’s own expense, and failure or refusal, or inability on
the part of the customer to install said device or devices within 90 days,
shall constitute a ground for disconnecting water service to the premises until
such device or devices have been properly installed.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow between the
free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any other system.
Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of the supply side
pipe diameter, but never less than one inch.
   APPROVAL. A document issued by the Water Department which allows the use of
a backflow preventer.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the City Supervisor as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this regulation, or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents backsiphonage by
creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or sub-
atmospheric pressure on a water system.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply, on or available, to the premises
other than the suppliers approved public potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances, under
positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a potable water
supply from any source other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means designed to prevent backflow or
backsiphonage. Most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced pressure principle
device, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker, atmospheric
vacuum breaker, hose bibb vacuum breaker, and double check with intermediate
atmospheric vent. Any device must be classified as an approved backflow device
by the Oregon Health Division.
   BACKPRESSURE. A condition in which the owner’s system pressure is greater
than the supplier’s system pressure.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of the pressure
in the potable water supply system.
   CITY SUPERVISOR. The person either designated as “City Supervisor” by the
City Council or the person that oversees the operations of the operations of
the Water Department, or his or her representative, is invested with the
authority and responsibility for the implementation of a cross-connection
control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   CONTAINMENT. A method of backflow prevention which requires a backflow
preventer at the water service entrance.
   CONTAMINANT. Any substance that will impair the quality of the water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection between the public
water supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
   DIVISION. The State of Oregon Public Health Division.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently operating
spring loaded check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on each side on
the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of each
check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device having two
spring-loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
   FIXTURE ISOLATION. A method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
preventer is located to correct a cross-connection at an in-plant location
rather than at a water service entrance.
   HOSE BIBB VACUUM BREAKER. A device which is permanently attached to a hose
bibb and which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate or habitat
in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or upon
which a cross-connection is present.
   POLLUTANT. A foreign substance that, if permitted to get into the public
water system, will degrade its quality so as to constitute a moderate hazard,
or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not
create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably effect such water for domestic use.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device containing one or two independently
operating approved check valves and an independently operated spring loaded air
inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check or checks. Device
includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check valves and
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valve(s).
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly consisting of two
independently operating approved check valves with an automatically operating
differential relief valve located between the two check valves, tightly closing
shut-off valves on each side of the check valves, plus properly located test
cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief valves.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The City of Depoe Bay Water Department.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. The point in the owner’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the city; generally considered to be the outlet end of the
water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.27 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Water Department will operate a cross-connection control program,
to include the keeping of necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of
the division’s cross-connection regulations.
   (B)   The owner and occupant shall allow his or her property to be inspected
after being notified by mail; the inspection date shall be not sooner than five
days after the date of mailing. The notice of inspection shall be mailed to the
owner and to the occupant, if known, at the address on file with the city for
purposes of mailing periodic statements for water services. The inspection
shall be for the purposes of identifying possible cross-connections and shall
follow the provisions of the Water Department’s program and the division’s
regulations if cross-connection is identified.
   (C)   (1)   If the Water Department requires that the public supply be
protected by containment, the owner shall be responsible for water quality
beyond the outlet end of the containment device and should utilize a backflow
device for that purpose.
      (2)   The owner may utilize public health officials, or personnel from
the Water Department, or their delegated representatives, to assist in the
survey of the facilities and to assist in the selection of proper fixture
outlet devices, and the proper installation of these devices.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.28 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   City.
      (1)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the Water
Department will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises
and inform the owner by letter of any corrective action deemed necessary, the
method of achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the correction to
be made. Ordinarily, 90 days will be shortened depending upon the degree of
hazard involved and the history of the device(s) in question.
      (2)   The Water Department will not allow any cross-connection to remain
unless it is protected by an approved backflow preventer for which approval has
been issued by the City Supervisor and which will be regularly tested to insure
satisfactory operation.
      (3)   The Water Department shall inform the owner by letter of any
failure to comply, within ten working days of the first inspection. The Water
Department will allow an additional 15 days for correction. In the event the
owner fails to comply with necessary correction by the time of the second re-
inspection, the Water Department will inform the owner and occupant, if known,
by letter that the water service to the premises will be terminated within a
period not to exceed five days. In the event that the owner or occupant informs
the Water Department of extenuating circumstances as to why the correction has
not been made, a time extension may be granted by the Water Department, but in
no case will exceed an additional 30 days.
      (4)   If the Water Department determines at any time that a serious
threat to the public health exists, the water service will be terminated
immediately.
      (5)   The Oregon Health Division has on file a list of private
contractors who are certified backflow device testers. All charges for these
tests will be paid by the owner of the building or property.
      (6)   The Water Department will begin initial premises inspections to
determine the nature of existing or potential hazards during the fiscal year
1995 to 1996. Initial focus will be on high hazard industries and commercial
premises.
   (B)   Owner.
      (1)   On new installations, the owner shall obtain a qualified plumber to
provide on-site evaluation and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the
type of backflow preventer, if any, that will be required. The owner’s plumber
shall file the plumber’s recommendation with the City Supervisor. The owner’s
plumber shall thereafter proceed with installation of the backflow preventer
unless objection is given by the City Supervisor within two business days
following the date of filing the recommendation. Following installation, the
owner’s plumber shall perform inspection and testing.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or isolation of
all cross-connections on the owner’s premises.
      (3)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the Water
Department, shall at the owner’s expense, install, maintain, and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventers on the owner’s premises.
      (4)   The owner shall correct any malfunctions of the backflow preventer
which is revealed by periodic testing.
      (5)   The owner shall inform the Water Department of any proposed or
modified cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the
owner is aware of, but has not been found by the Water Department.
      (6)   The owner shall not install a by-pass around any backflow preventer
unless there is a backflow preventer of the same type on the by-pass. Owners
shall not tamper with backflow devices.
      (7)   The owner shall install backflow preventers in a manner approved by
the Water Department.
      (8)   The owner shall install only backflow preventers approved by the
Oregon Health Division.
      (9)   Any owner having a private well or other private water source, must
have the City Supervisor’s written approval if the well or source is cross-
connected to the Water Department’s system. Permission to cross-connect may be
denied by the Water Department. The owner may be required to install a backflow
preventer at the service entrance if a private water source is maintained, even
if it is not cross-connected to the Water Department’s system.
      (10)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the Water Department’s side of the backflow
preventer, such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer installed.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.29 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The Water Department recognizes the threat to the public water system
arising from cross-connections. All threats will be classified by degree of
hazard and will require the installation of approved backflow prevention
devices.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.30 EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow preventer shall be allowed by the Water Department to
continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the
effectiveness of the preventer, or result in an unreasonable risk to the public
health. Where the degree of hazard has increased, as in the case of a
residential installation converting to a business establishment, any existing
backflow device must be replaced with an approved device suitable for that
degree of hazard.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.31 PERIODIC TESTING.
   (A)   All testable backflow devices shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
   (B)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a certified tester. This
testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   (1)   Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will
be repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the
repair, the device will be retested at owner’s expense to ensure correct
operation.
      (2)   High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue if the
backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately. In other
situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test date will
be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair tools, or a
replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an effective means
of the owner ensuring uninterrupted water service during testing or repair of
devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires such continuity.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (A) above if the Water Department feels that there is a
history of test failures. Cost of additional testing will be borne by the
owner.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.32 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Records. The Water Department will initiate and maintain the
following:
      (1)   Master files on customers’ cross-connection tests and/or
inspections;
      (2)   Copies of lists and summarizes supplied to the Oregon Health
Division;
      (3)   Initial listing of low hazard cross-connections; and
      (4)   Initial listing of high hazard cross-connections.
   (B)   Reports. The Water Department will submit the following to the Oregon
Health Division: annual summary of cross-connection inspections to Oregon
Health Division.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 51.33 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The city will publish, by resolution, a list of fees or charges and
make them available to the public. The fee resolution may be amended by the
City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Fees and charges do not constitute a tax upon real property.
      (1)   The City Council finds and determines that the charges pursuant to
§§
51.01 through
51.10 of this chapter are fees and charges which are not subject to limits of §
11B, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution and the City Recorder shall give
public notice of the Council’s finding.
      (2)   The charges imposed by this subchapter are not intended to be a tax
on property or on a property owner as a direct consequence of ownership of
property within the meaning of § 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution or
the legislation implementing that section.
      (3)   Even if the charges herein imposed are viewed under § 11b, Article
XI of the Oregon Constitution as a tax against property or against a property
owner as a direct consequence of ownership of that property, it is an incurred
charge within the meaning of that section and the statutes implementing it
because:
         (a)   It allows the owner to control the quantity of the service by
determining the extent of development to occur upon the property;
         (b)   It allows the owner to determine when the service is to be
initiated or increased by controlling when the development occurs; and
         (c)   State law and the ordinances of this city require the owner to
provide certain basic utility services to the property when it is developed for
human occupancy. The provision of these basic utility services are a routine
obligation of the owner of the affected property and essential to the health
and safety of the community.
      (3)   Therefore, the Council finds and determines that such fees,
charges, and assessments do not constitute a tax and are not subject to the
limits of § 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-5-1995)
DETERMINATION OF WATER SHORTAGE
§ 51.45 PURPOSES AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   As a result of the drought and the threat of continued drought, the
ordinary demands and requirements of water consumers cannot not be satisfied
without depleting the water supply of the city to the extent that there would
be insufficient water for human consumption, sanitation, and fire protection.
   (B)   The City Council finds and determines that a water shortage emergency
exists within the city’s water service area and likely will continue to exist
for a period which is as yet unknown, but that from time to time there may be
sufficient water in the reservoir from rainfall for temporary suspension of the
water shortage conservation measures provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   The City Council finds that the city should be able to adopt
regulations necessary to mitigate the water shortage emergency.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 51.46 WATER CONSERVATION ACTIONS.
   During such time that the City Council determines that there is a water
shortage, as evidenced by resolution of the City Council, no person or entity
shall use water supplied by or through the city’s water system for the
following:
   (A)   The watering of vegetation, expect that trees and shrubs may be
watered with a handheld bucket, drip irrigation system, or approved low-volume
irrigation system. No person shall use overhead sprinklers; watering or
sprinkling of grass is prohibited;
   (B)   Hosing of buildings and pavement or other vehicle or pedestrian
surfaces;
   (C)   Restaurants, motels, and other businesses which serve food or drink to
the public shall post “drought notices” in a clearly conspicuous manner so that
members of the public will be apprised of the water shortage. Water for
drinking purposes may only be served upon request;
   (D)   Boat and vehicle washing is restricted to use of a bucket and hose
with automatic shut-off nozzle, or a commercial car wash facility; and
   (E)   Operation of ornamental fountains is prohibited, unless equipped with
a recirculation system and posted with a drought notice.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-3-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.47 SUSPENSION OF WATER SERVICE.
   Upon conviction of a third offense, water service to the water meter from
which the water for the third offense was obtained shall be terminated for a
period of ten days. Notice of termination of water service shall be given in
the manner required for termination of water service pursuant to §§
51.01 through
51.10 of this chapter. In addition to any fine, there shall be imposed connect-
disconnect fees in the same amount as for disconnection/connection for
nonpayment of water service charges.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies of the city, any person violating
any of the terms and provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.10 or failing to pay any sums due pursuant to the terms, shall be subject to
the fines, citations, and enforcement procedures as set forth in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Any person or entity violating a provision of §§
51.45 through
51.47 shall be subject to conviction of an infraction and shall be subject to
the following penalties:
      (1)   First offense (no prior offense of §§
51.45 through
51.47 within the preceding 180 days): written warning;
      (2)   Second offense (fine only) (one prior offense within the preceding
180 days): $200; and
      (3)   Third or more offense (two or more prior offenses within the
preceding 180 days): $500.
   (D)   In addition, water service to the meter from which the water for the
third offense was obtained shall be terminated for ten consecutive days as set
forth in §
51.47.
   (E)   Each day that a violation of §§
51.45 through
51.47 is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
infraction.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 179, passed 8-3-1992)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Declaration of policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Use of public sewers required
   
52.004   Availability of public sewers
   
52.005   Local system plans
   
52.006   Construction plans
   
52.007   Main and lateral sewers and service connections
   
52.008   Connections to city facilities and surcharges
   
52.009   Prohibited discharges
   
52.010   Appeal to Board of Directors
Prohibited Discharges
   
52.025   Sanitary sewers
   
52.026   Prohibitions and limitations
   
52.027   Additional limitations
   
52.028   Special agreements
   
52.029   Grease traps and other pretreatment
   
52.030   Operation
   
52.031   Waste sampling and monitoring
Industrial Wastes
   
52.045   Control of industrial wastes
   
52.046   Industrial waste sewer service charges
   
52.047   Flow measurement and sampling facilities
   
52.048   Analyses
City Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.060   Unauthorized connections
   
52.061   Building sewer permits
   
52.062   Building sewer and service connection costs; maintenance and repairs
   
52.063   Use of existing sewers
   
52.064   Separate building sewer
   
52.065   Basement service
   
52.066   Restricted connections
   
52.067   Point of construction
   
52.068   Building sewers and service connections
Sewer Use Fees
   
52.080   General
   
52.081   Schedule of monthly sewer service rates
   
52.082   Schedule of residential and commercial connection fees
   
52.083   Connection fees for existing structures
   
52.084   Time limits
Standards for Sanitary Sewer Construction
   
52.095   General
   
52.096   Safety
   
52.097   Construction materials
   
52.098   Workmanship
   
52.099   Air or hydrostatic tests
Standards for Building Sewer and Service Connection Construction
   
52.110   General
   
52.111   Construction materials
   
52.112   Workmanship
Penalties
   
52.125   Denial of connection
   
52.126   Issuance of stop work order
   
52.127   Compliance with order to discontinue prohibited discharges
   
52.128   Delinquency
   
52.129   Discontinuance of service
   
52.130   Restoration of service
   
52.131   Ownership and occupancy
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to plan and provide
sewage disposal service within the city. The rules and regulations and rates
hereinafter set forth shall be applicable to the disposal of sewage into the
city sewerage system.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASTM SPECIFICATIONS. The standard specifications or methods of the
American Society for Testing and Materials of the serial designation indicated
by the number and unless otherwise stated refer to the latest adopted revision
of said specification or method.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under a standard laboratory procedure
in five days at a temperature of 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter, or
parts per million by weight. Laboratory determinations shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in standard methods.
      BOARD OF DIRECTORS or DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors of the city.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the property
line or right-of-way line and connection with the public sewer service
connection.
      CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine which must be added to the
sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine content, or to meet the
requirements of some other objective, in accordance with procedures set forth
in standard methods.
      CITY. The City of Depoe Bay, Oregon. See the definition of DISTRICT.
      COMBINED SEWER OR SYSTEM. A conduit or system of conduit in which both
sewage and storm water are transported.
      COMMERCIAL BUILDING. All buildings or premises used for any purpose other
than a dwelling unit, but not an industrial user.
      DISTRICT. The City of Depoe Bay; a municipal corporation of the state,
having jurisdiction within certain defined boundaries as now or hereafter
constituted, acting through the Board of Directors or any committee, body,
official, or person to whom the Directors shall have lawfully delegated the
power to act for or on behalf of the city. Unless a particular committee, body,
official, or person is specifically designated in these rules and regulations,
wherever herein action by the city is explicitly required or implied, it shall
be understood to mean action by the secretary of the city or his or her duly
authorized representative or agent.
      DISTRICT SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All or any part of the facilities for
collection, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage as acquired,
constructed, or used by the city.
      DWELLING UNITS. Buildings and structures that are constructed and used
primarily for residential purposes.
      ENGINEER. The engineer duly appointed by the city or the owner of private
sewers to supervise and direct the design and construction of local sewerage
facilities, acting personally or through agents or assistants duly authorized
by him or her, such agents, or assistants acting within the scope of the
particular duties assigned to them.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food, or from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. All sewer users which discharge an INDUSTRIAL WASTE as
defined below.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
         (a)   Any flow discharged into the sewer facilities by any non-
governmental user of the city sewer system identified in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as
amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, forestry, and fishing;
            2.   Division B: Mining;
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas, and
sanitary services; and
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (b)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is
determined that it will introduce primarily segregated, domestic wastes, or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      INTERCEPTOR. A sanitary sewer which receives the flow from a number of
trunk, main, or lateral sewers and transports it to a treatment plant or other
point of disposal. Generally, an INTERCEPTOR collects the flow from a number of
trunks, mains, or laterals which would otherwise discharge to a natural outlet.
      LATERAL. A sanitary sewer which will receive the flow from service
connections and discharge into a main.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any legally constituted city, town, county,
special district, or other public agency under whose jurisdiction local
sewerage facilities may be constructed or operated.
      MAIN. A sanitary sewer which will receive the flow from one or more
laterals and which will discharge into a trunk or interceptor.
      NATURAL OUTLET. An outlet into a pond, lake, stream, river, ditch,
watercourse, or other body of surface water.
      pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution. pH shall be determined by on of the procedures
outlined in standard methods. (pH is a measure of acidity or alkalinity.)
      PRESSURE SEWER. A sewer receiving sewage flow directly from a pump
station and discharging under pressure into an interceptor, trunk, main,
lateral, another pumping station, or treatment plant.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or combined sewer,
exclusive of building sewers, which is neither within the jurisdiction of nor
owned or operated by the city or a local government agency.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow and conditions normally prevailing in
public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or combined sewer, exclusive
of building sewers, owned or operated by the city or a local government agency.
      SECRETARY. The city secretary of the city or his or her duly authorized
representative or agent.
      SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit designed or used to transport sewage
and to which storm water, surface, and ground waters are not admitted
intentionally.
      SERVICE CHARGE. The charges, normally monthly, levied on all users of the
public sewer system for operation, maintenance, and other purposes as
established by the Directors.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. A public sewer which has been constructed to the
approximate property line or right-of-way line from a public sewer for the sole
purpose of providing a connection for the building sewer.
      SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
commercial buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together
with such ground, surface, and storm waters a may be present.
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL AGREEMENT. The agreement between the city and any local
government agency or person providing for the delivery or receipt of sewage to
or from the city sewerage system and th acceptance or delivery by the city of
such sewage.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. An arrangement of devices, structures. and
equipment for treating sewage.
      SEWER USER. Every person using any part of the city sewerage system.
      SLUDGE. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, the American
Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      STORM SEWER. A conduit designed or used exclusively to transport storm
water.
      STORM WATER. Waters on the surface of ground or underground resulting
from rainfall or other natural precipitation.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering in accordance with procedures set forth in standard
methods.
      TRUNK. A major sanitary sewer into which more than two laterals or mains
discharge and which transports the flow collected from laterals and mains to an
interceptor, pumping station or treatment plant.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER OR LIQUIDS. Any water or liquid containing none of the
following: free or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalies; substances that
may impart taste-and-odor or color characteristics; toxic or poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state, or solution; odorous or otherwise
obnoxious gases. It shall meet the current state standards for water used for
recreation. Analytical determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in standard methods.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (B)   Words, terms, or expressions peculiar to the art or science of
sewerage not herein above defined shall have the respective meanings given in
Glossary, Water, and Wastewater Control Engineering published in 1969, prepared
by a joint committee representing American Public Health Association, American
Society of Civil Engineers, American Water Works Association, and the Water
Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 47, passed 4-24-1975)
§ 52.003 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of these rules and regulations.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is a public
sanitary sewer for the city, is hereby required, at the owner’s expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein and to either:
         (a)   Connect such facilities directly with the proper city sewer in
accordance with the provision of this chapter within 90 days of official notice
to do so; provided that said sewer is within 250 feet of the property line; or
         (b)   Connect such facilities to the owner’s private sewage treatment
facility and to treat the sewage upon the property such that no sewage effluent
shall be disbursed either upon the property or beyond the boundaries of the
property nor sewage transported from the property, unless otherwise permitted
by ordinance, except as has been fully treated as required by law or regulation
in accordance with applicable federal and state requirements for treatment of
sewage from residential, industrial, or commercial uses, as is appropriate to
the use of the property; provided that the sewage shall not thereafter be
treated by means of a septic tank and drainfield.
      (2)   In the event that, during the period of 90 days to connect to the
city sewer or to provide equivalent sewage treatment facilities, the said owner
shall file written objection with the secretary (City Recorder) against so
being required to install said facilities, the city shall not enforce the
provisions of this division (D)(2) upon said owner, so filing his or her
objections, until the Directors (City Council) shall have, at a meeting
thereof, heard the said objections of said owner, and rendered its decision
thereon. The meeting of the Directors (City Council) shall be held not less
than ten days nor more than 40 days from and after the date of filing of said
objections with the secretary (City Recorder). Not less than seven days prior
to the date set by the Directors (City Council) for said meeting, the secretary
(City Recorder) shall give due notice of the date set therefore to said owner.
The decision of the Directors (City Council) shall be final and no recourse
shall be available to said owner except as is provided by law.
   (E)   The official notice to connect as set forth in division (D) above
shall be given by the secretary of the city by publishing a notice to all
owners of the property abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in which
there is a public sanitary sewer of the city, to connect within 90 days of the
publication date of said notice, said notice to be published in the News-Guard,
Lincoln City, Lincoln County, Oregon.
   (F)   The owner of any house, building, or property connected to the city’s
public sanitary sewer may disconnect from the public sanitary sewer provided
the owner provides adequate sewage treatment for the property by complying with
division (D) above. In such event, the owner shall pay to the city its
reasonable costs of inspection to certify that the sewage treatment facility
installed by the owner complies with state and federal requirements for
treatment of sewage from residential, industrial, or commercial use, as is
appropriate to the use of the property and that the disconnection of the
property from the public sanitary sewer is made in such a manner so as not to
damage the public sanitary sewer nor result in any sewage effluent being
deposited upon the property, adjacent right-of-way or other properties. The
City Council may, from time to time, adopt a resolution setting forth the fee
for inspection for disconnection from the public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 50, passed 2-14-1975; Ord. 168, passed 7-1-
1991)
§ 52.004 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Unless the developer or user has provided for a private sewage system
as described in §
52.003(D), and where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.003(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to the property
served by a private sewage disposal system, unless the owner elects to provide
for a private sewage treatment facility as provided in §
52.003(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned in accordance with state law at no
expense to the city and shall be pumped and filled with approved granular
material, except as provided below, or the Public Works Director shall
otherwise permit. Where existing buildings are too low to be served by gravity
by a public sanitary sewer, the existing septic tank facilities may be
maintained in use, and, when so ordered by the Secretary (City Recorder) under
§
52.003(D), approved pumping facilities shall be installed to pump the septic
tank effluent into either the available public sanitary sewer system or the
private sewage treatment facility as provided in §
52.003(D).
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to and not in
derogation of the requirements of general law.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 168, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 52.005 LOCAL SYSTEM PLANS.
   Local government agencies or persons owning or operating public or private
sewers at the time of the adoption of these rules and regulations shall submit,
if requested, to the city within 60 days after the adoption of these rules and
regulations, two sets of an overall plan or plans of the existing systems.
Changes or additions to these overall plans shall be submitted to the city
January 1 and July 1 of each year.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.006 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Detailed construction plans and specifications for proposed public and
private sewers to be constructed and directly connected to the city sewerage
system shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer and shall be
subject to review and approval by the city. Each local government agency and
person shall notify the city in writing of its intention to prepare such
construction plans and specifications delineating the boundaries of the areas
to be sewered by map, sketch, or written description. Within ten calendar days
following receipt of such notice, the city shall make written request for the
submission of such plans and specifications. The local government agency or
person shall submit two sets of plans and specifications and shall obtain
approval thereof and a permit to construct prior to advertising for bids.
   (B)   Within 21 calendar days following receipt of such plans and
specifications, the city shall review same and return one set thereof to the
local government agency or person with approval or required changes indicated.
If said plans and specifications are disapproved, the required changes shall be
made by the local government agency or person, and all required revisions of
plans and specifications resubmitted in the same manner as provided for the
initial submittal. In the event no communication is received from the city by
the local government agency or person within 21 calendar days of the date of
submission of such plans and specifications, it shall be deemed that the city
has approved such plans and specifications and will issue a construction
permit.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.007 MAIN AND LATERAL SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   General. The construction of new public sewers and private sewers to
be connected to the city sewerage system, and extensions of existing sewers
within the city boundaries shall fully conform to these rules and regulations,
construction standards, and the requirements of the appropriate state agency.
In the event of conflict, the highest applicable standard shall govern.
   (B)   Type of sewerage system. New public sewers, private sewers, and
extensions of existing sewers shall be designed as separate sanitary sewers or
storm sewers. Construction of combined sewers will not be permitted.
   (C)   Flow allowances. The design criteria for new public sewers, private
sewers, and extensions of existing sewers shall be such that the total daily
flow other than sewage shall be 1,000 gallons per acre per day.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   The city will provide a full-time inspector or inspectors on all
new sanitary sewer construction within the city and for those sewers connected
to the city sewerage system to ensure compliance with these rules and
regulations and the specifications under which they are to constructed. The
inspector(s) will make diligent efforts to guard the city against defects and
deficiencies in the work of the contractor(s) and to help determine if the
provisions of theses rules and regulations and the construction standards are
being fulfilled. Inspection will not, however, cause the city to be responsible
for those duties and responsibilities which belong to the construction
contractor and which include, but are not limited to, full responsibility for
the techniques and sequences of construction and the safety precautions,
incidental thereto, and for performing the construction work in accordance with
these rules and regulations and the construction standards.
      (2)   The city will notify the local government agencies or persons
responsible for the construction when, in the opinion of the city, the
construction work does not comply with these rules and regulations. Upon
receipt of notification from the city that any sewer construction work is not
being performed in compliance with these rules and regulations and to the
construction standards therefor, the local government agency or person shall
immediately take such action as may be necessary to ensure compliance. Each
local government agency or person shall inform the city a minimum of ten but
not more than 20 days in advance of the start of any sewer construction.
      (3)   The city shall be reimbursed for the cost of providing inspection
services by the local government agency or person installing new sanitary
sewers. The cost for inspection services shall be on a per diem basis
determined by the secretary at the time the permit (§
52.006 of this subchapter) is issued to perform the work.
      (4)   The construction of the sewers shall be under the supervision of an
engineer currently registered in the state or his or her representative. At the
completion of the construction, the engineer shall certify in writing to the
city that such construction complies with these rules and regulations and plans
and specifications therefor.
   (E)   Construction standards. Construction of local government agency or
private sanitary sewers to be connected to the city sewerage system shall
conform to these rules and regulations and to the standards for sanitary sewer
construction in the city (construction standards), together with all amendments
thereof or hereafter adopted. Copies of the construction standards are
available at the office of the secretary.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.008 CONNECTIONS TO CITY FACILITIES AND SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Approval required. No connection shall be made to the city sewerage
system without the prior approval of the city.
   (B)   Sewer connection to city system. Sewers shall be planned so as to
require the minimum practical number of points of connection to the city
system.
   (C)   Sewer surcharges.
      (1)   An additional charge will be made for quantities of water other
than sewage and industrial waste in excess of the volume established for design
purposes in §
52.007(C) of this subchapter. Any charge made in addition to the regular charge
shall be based on metered records of flow taken and compiled by the city.
      (2)   To determine when quantities of water other than sewage and
industrial waste entering the city’s sewerage facilities become excessive, the
city may meter and record flows from suspected areas between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 4:00 a.m. The flows during this period, less a 10% allowance for
possible night-time use of the system, shall be assumed to be water other than
sewage and industrial waste. If this amount exceeds the allowance as set forth
in §
52.007(C) of this subchapter, the area shall be deemed to be contributing
excessive flow. Significant commercial activity during the test period, such as
manufacturing, will be metered at the source and subtracted from the above
metered flows to arrive at the quantity of water other than sewage and
industrial waste.
      (3)   If the city elects to meter and record total daily flow from such
sewers, the local government agency or person will be given at least five days’
notice in advance of such metering. Metering periods shall continue until
excessive flow conditions are corrected.
      (4)   Daily surcharges for excess flow will be as established by the
Directors in the rate schedules.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.009 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges. No person shall discharge, directly or
indirectly, into a public sewer any material or substance which is prohibited
by any rules and regulations of the city. No person shall discharge any
material whatsoever into a city manhole through the top.
   (B)   Interference with operation of city system. No unauthorized person
shall enter any city sewer, manhole, pumping station, treatment plant, or
appurtenant facility.
      (1)   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the city system.
      (2)   No person, other than an authorized employee or agent of the city
shall operate or change the operation of any city sewer, pumping station,
treatment plant, or appurtenant facility.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.010 APPEAL TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   Any local government agency or person feeling himself or herself aggrieved
by any decision or action of the city made or taken pursuant to these rules and
regulations may appeal to the Directors by filing written notice of appeal with
the secretary within 45 days following such decision or action. Such notice of
appeal shall set forth in reasonable detail the action or decision appealed
from the appellant’s ground for reversal or modification thereof. Within 20
days following receipt of such notice, the Directors shall set a time for
hearing upon such appeal which shall not be less than ten nor more than 40 days
following such receipt. The action of the Directors upon such appeal shall be
conclusive, subject to appeal in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 52.025 SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge any storm water, surface drainage, subsurface
drainage, groundwater, roof water, cooling water, or unpolluted water into any
sanitary sewer owned or operated by the city or connected to the city sewerage
system.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge into the public
sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas which may, by themselves or by interaction with
other substances, cause injury to persons, property, or the operation of the
city sewerage system;
   (B)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gasses in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per liter as CN in the wastes as
discharged to the public sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH of lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewer or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, or other materials; and
   (E)   Materials from cesspools and septic tanks, other than effluent, except
that materials from cesspools and septic tanks pumped within the boundaries of
the sanitary city may be dumped into the sewage system if prior application and
approval is obtained from the secretary.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 ADDITIONAL LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the secretary that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the secretary will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the secretary;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes as discharged to the public sewer containing
iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances
exceeding a concentration or one part per million total chrome and one part per
million additional of other heavy metals, or such other limits as may be
established by the secretary in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the secretary as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the secretary in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual chlorine requirements in such quantities as to
constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“sludge” as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing a total of 25 pounds or more suspended
solids or BOD in any one day. Water exceeding these requirements may be
admitted to the city sewerage system subject to the provisions of §
52.028 of this subchapter; and
   (K)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the agencies having jurisdiction over
effluent quality.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
person whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
admitted to the sewage disposal works, either before or after pre-treatment,
provided that there is no impairment of the functioning of the sewage treatment
works by reason of the admission of such wastes, and not extra costs are
incurred by the city without recompense by the person.
   (B)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the city sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §§
52.026 and
52.027 of this subchapter, and which, in the judgment of the secretary, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, including a minimum of two hours of settling for wastes
containing soil, dirt, and/or sand;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, by the
construction of equalization basins or by other appropriate methods; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing sewer charges under the provisions of §§
52.008 and
52.080 through
52.084 of this chapter. If the secretary permits the pretreatment or or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city and subject
to the requirements of all applicable codes and laws.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.029 GREASE TRAPS AND OTHER PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand traps shall be provided, operated, and
maintained when, in the opinion of the Secretary, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such traps
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. An
approved grease trap shall be mandatory for all service stations and
restaurants. All traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
secretary, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   All industrial wastes shall be pretreated when required by the city.
Pretreatment may include, but is not limited to, vibrating or rotary screens to
remove any particle larger than 20-mesh and such other facilities as may be
determined necessary by the city to render the waste acceptable for admission
to the public sewers. All wastes containing soil, dirt, and/or sand shall be
settled a minimum of two hours in an acceptable basin before discharge to a
public sewer.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.030 OPERATION.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 WASTE SAMPLING AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be subject to periodic
inspection and a determination of character and concentration. The
determinations shall be made as often as deemed necessary by the Secretary.
   (B)   When automatic flow measurement and sampling facilities are not
available, the samples shall be collected by the city in such a manner to be
representative of the composition of the wastes. The sampling may be
accomplished either manually or by the use of mechanical equipment. Access to
the sampling locations shall be granted to the secretary or his or her duly
authorized representatives at all times.
   (C)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in these rules and regulations shall be
determined by the city in accordance with the latest edition of standard
methods and shall be determined at a control manhole provided, or taken at said
control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the
control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling
shall be carried out by the city by customarily accepted methods to reflect the
effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of
hazards to life, limb and property.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 52.045 CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges. Industrial waste contributors shall be subject
to all provisions of §§
52.025 through
52.031 of this chapter.
   (B)   Approval required. Review and acceptance by the secretary shall be
obtained at least 30 days prior to the discharge into the city sewerage system
any wastes having either:
      (1)   A total of 30 pounds or more of suspended solids in any one day; or
      (2)   A total of 30 pounds or more of BOD in any one day.
   (C)   Submission of basic data.
      (1)   Each person who may be discharging industrial wastes to the city
sewer system shall, upon request by the city, prepare and file with the city or
a local government agency contracting with the city, a report that shall
include pertinent date relating to the quantity and characteristics of the
wastes discharged to the sewers. The secretary shall establish when the report
is to be filed.
      (2)   Similarly, each person desiring to make a new connection to a city
sewer for the purpose of discharging what may be defined as industrial wastes
shall prepare and file with the city a report that shall include actual or
predicted data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the waste to be
discharged.
   (D)   Extension of time. When it can be demonstrated that circumstances
exist which would create an unreasonable burden on the person to comply with
the time schedule imposed by division (B) above, a request for extension may be
presented for consideration of the city.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 INDUSTRIAL WASTE SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Each person discharging industrial wastes into a public sanitary sewer
with a daily total in excess of 25 pounds of either BOD or suspended solids
may, at his or her option, or shall, when directed by the city, construct and
maintain an approved control manhole, together with such flow measurement flow
sampling, and sample storage facilities for all waste entering the public sewer
as may be required by the secretary. These facilities will be used to obtain
flow, BOD, and suspended solids data for use as a basis for an industrial waste
sewer service charge.
   (B)   In lieu of directing the construction of measurement sampling and
sample storage facilities, the secretary may require that each person
discharging industrial wastes into a public sanitary sewer which has a daily
total in excess of 25 pounds of either BOD or suspended solids to procure and
test at the person’s expense and in a manner approved by the secretary,
sufficient composite samples on which to base and compute the person’s
industrial waste sewer service charge. In the event that automatic flow
measurement, sampling, and sample storage facilities are not provided, the
industrial waste charge shall be computed using the metered water flow to the
premises as a basis for waste flow and the laboratory analysis of samples
procured as directed by the secretary as a basis for computing BOD and
suspended solids content of the wastes. Metered water flow shall include all
water delivered to or used on the premises and which is discharged to the city
sanitary sewer. In the event that private water supplies are used, they shall
be metered at the person’s expense. Cooling waters or water not discharged to a
sanitary sewer shall be separately metered at the person’s expense and in a
manner approved by the secretary prior to allowing deduction of such flow from
the total water used on the premises in computing the industrial waste sewer
service charge.
   (C)   Persons discharging industrial wastes into a sanitary sewer with a
daily total of 25 pounds or less of either BOD or suspended solids shall have
the option of installing measurement and sampling facilities for the purpose of
receiving an industrial waste sewer service charge based on quantity and
strength of the waste, or may elect to have their sewer service charge based on
the commercial sewer service rate established by the city. The city may
determine, by at least three composite waste samples during a year, if a waste
discharged to the sanitary sewers, based on either BOD or suspended solids,
exceeds 25 pounds per day. If three consecutive measurements by the city
indicate that the 25 pound per day rate is being exceeded, then the options for
installation of measurement and sampling equipment shall apply.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.047 FLOW MEASUREMENT AND SAMPLING FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   If so directed by the city, all devices, access facilities, and
related equipment shall be installed by the person discharging the waste, at
his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be in safe
condition, in proper operating condition at all times, and readily accessible
to city forces during the operating day.
      (2)   The flow measurement device may be a Parshall flume, weir, venturi
nozzle, magnetic flowmeter, or any other type of device providing accurate and
continuous flow indication. Pump timers or other indirect measurement devices
will not be acceptable.
   (B)   (1)   The flowmeter shall be suitable for indicating and totalizing
the flow in millions of gallons per day through the device, provided above,
with an error not exceeding plus or minus 5%. The instrument shall be equipped
with a set of electrical contacts arranged to momentarily close a circuit to
energize a process timer and sampling device for every fixed quantity of flow.
This quantity should be selected so as to ensure a minimum of 50 samples per
operating day.
      (2)   Other control variations will be acceptable if it can be
demonstrated that the sampling procedure will result in a waste sample which is
proportional to the waste flow. The length of operation of the sampling device
shall be dependent on the type of sampling arrangement used, but in no case
shall the daily collected sample be less than two quarts in volume.
   (C)   The method of sampling used may be by continuous pumping past a
solenoid-operated valve, direct pumping into the sample container, continuous
pumping past a sampler dipper calibrated to remove a constant sample, by a
proportional sample dipper operating directly in the waste flow, or by any
other approved means. All samples must be continuously refrigerated at a
temperature of 39ºF, plus or minus five degrees.
   (D)   The flow measurement and sampling station shall be located and
constructed in a manner acceptable to the city. Complete plans on all phases of
the proposed installation, including all equipment proposed for use, shall be
submitted to the city for approval prior to construction.
   (E)   The person discharging the waste shall keep flow records as required
by the city and shall provide qualified personnel to properly maintain and
operate the facilities.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.048 ANALYSES.
   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial wastes shall be
those set forth in standard methods. However, alternate methods for certain
analyses of industrial wastes may be used if approved by the city. The waste
samples shall be analyzed by the city.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
CITY BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.060 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereto and no
person, firm, or corporation shall make any connections to any part of the
sewer system without first making an application to the city and securing a
permit therefor.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits for the city: for
residential and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city.
   (B)   The permit applications shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the secretary’s
judgment.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee as established from time to time by the
Directors shall be paid to the secretary at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.062 BUILDING SEWER AND SERVICE CONNECTION COSTS; MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection,
maintenance, repair, and replacement of the building sewer and service
connection shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation, connection,
maintenance, repair, and replacement, of the building sewer and service
connection.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 216, passed 4-11-1995)
§ 52.063 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings, or new
building sewers, only when they are found, on examination and testing by the
secretary, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.064 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, provided, however, that apartments,
courts, motels, and similar structures held under a single ownership shall be
permitted to use a single sanitary sewer connection while such single ownership
shall continue, such single connection to be of a size and type approved by the
secretary as adequate for the purpose.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.065 BASEMENT SERVICE.
   Building sewers serving buildings with basements shall, whenever possible,
be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.066 RESTRICTED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.067 POINT OF CONNECTION.
   Building sewer connections shall be made on the house side of the septic
tank except as provided in §
52.004(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.068 BUILDING SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   Construction of building sewers and service connections shall conform to
this chapter, to the State Plumbing Code, being O.A.R. 918-750-0100 et seq.,
and to the standards for building sewer and/or service connection construction
in the city, together with all amendments thereof, or hereafter adopted. Copies
of building sewer and/or service connection standards are available in the City
Supervisor office.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 216, passed 4-11-1995) Penalty, see §
52.999
SEWER USER FEES
§ 52.080 GENERAL.
   (A)   Sewer connection fees shall be charged all users of the sewer prior to
connection in accordance with §
52.082 of this subchapter. Sewer service charges shall be charged in accordance
with §
52.081 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Sewer service charges shall be due and payable from all users and
others who will be required by §
52.003(D) of this chapter to connect to the system no later than the tenth day
of the month following the month official notice is given to connect to the
sewer system in accordance with §
52.003(D) of this chapter, and the sewer service charges shall be due and
payable each month whether or not the individual house, building or premises,
or other property is occupied or whether or not they are connected to the
system. Sewer service charges may be paid in advance.
   (C)   Connection fees for any property required to be connected to the
initial system shall be paid to the secretary prior to connection, and not
withstanding whether connection has been made to the system, the initial
connection fees shall be paid not later than 60 days from the date of the first
official notice given to connect to the system under §
52.003(D) of this chapter. Connection fees for premises to be connected to the
system after it is placed in operation shall be due and payable at the time the
permit required in §§
52.060 through
52.068 of this chapter is applied for.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien against the property involved for the non-
payment of sewer service rates and sewer connection fees.
   (E)   Sewer service rates shall be charged based upon the development type
on the property, as calculated by equivalent dwelling units (EDU) and
equivalent EDUs set forth in §
50.18 of this title. For purposes of sewer service usage, the amount of water
used shall be assumed to be the amount of sewer usage.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 288, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 52.081 SCHEDULE OF MONTHLY SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   A sewer rate study that will analyze the sufficiency of sewer rate
revenues against the financial obligations of the utility and utilize the
financial plan identified by the rate adjustment shall be established for a
ten-year planning period by resolution. The City Council shall set a schedule
of monthly water and sewer service rates by a resolution covering a ten-year
time frame after a comprehensive rate study is completed in ten-year
increments.
   (B)   New customer account setup/processing fee shall be set by the City
Council by resolution from time to time.
   (C)   Water turn-on or turn-off fee (upon property owner’s request or
pursuant to this subchapter) shall be set by the City Council by resolution
from time to time.
   (D)   Termination notice fee (§
51.09 of this subchapter) shall be set by the City Council by resolution from
time to time.
   (E)   Lien filing or satisfaction of lien filing fee shall be set by the
City Council by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 47, passed 4-24-1975; Ord. 288, passed 7-20-
2010; Res. 513-21, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 52.082 SCHEDULE OF RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Connection charges; sewer. To establish appropriate provisions for the
payment for the construction of the existing sanitary sewer system of the city,
and to provide for any necessary expansion of that system, inclusive of the
treatment plant, and to be assured that the cost of such construction and
expansion are borne by those who receive the benefits thereof, there is hereby
established connection charges and an obligation to pay certain expenses
incurred for all connections made to the sanitary sewer system of the city as
follows.
      (1)   For users inside the corporate boundaries of the city, the sum of
$1,000 per connection unit, as set forth in the following schedule shall be
paid as a connection charge.
      (2)   All expenses of whatever type and nature incurred in connecting to
the public sewer and maintaining the connection line to the lateral or main
shall be borne solely by the property owner. The point of connection with the
public sewer by the property owner shall be at such place as determined by the
city.
   (B)   Connection unit descriptions for sewer connection charges. A
connection unit is defined as follows:
      (1)   For each single-family dwelling there is one connection unit;
      (2)   For each mobile home there is one connection unit;
      (3)   As to multiple family dwellings, including apartment houses,
condominiums, cottages, duplexes, and the like, there is one connection unit
for each family or dwelling unit contained in the structure or upon the
premises;
      (4)   For motor courts, motels, and hotels there shall be one connection
unit for each dwelling unit contained within the structure or upon the
premises;
      (5)   For trailer courts, recreational vehicle courts, and mobile home
courts, there is one connection unit for each space upon which a trailer,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle may be placed;
      (6)   For all other uses not specified above, the number of connection
units shall be calculated based upon the number of equivalent fixture units to
be connected to the public sewer, directly or indirectly, as the result of a
proposed improvement, as specified in the current revised State Plumbing Code.
In cases when it is necessary to determine the number of connection units based
upon the State Plumbing Code, being O.A.R. 918-750-0100 et seq., there shall be
deemed to be one connection unit for each 16 equivalent fixture units or less.
(For example, if there is determined to be 22 equivalent fixture units as
defined in the current revised State Plumbing Code in a proposed improvement,
there would be two connection units as defined in this chapter, resulting in a
total connection charge of $800); and
      (7)   In the case of buildings containing unit modules which may be
rented for transient purposes as two or more discrete units, or which may be
combined for rental as a single larger unit, in determining the number of
connection units for the purpose of calculating the connection fee to be paid
under this chapter, each potential unit, or component of any larger unit, shall
be counted as a separate dwelling unit if the same shall have separate access
or is otherwise capable of being segregated and rented as a separate unit.
   (C)   Change of use. 
      (1)   If an existing user wishes to change his or her user service to
some other type of service, he or she shall apply to the city for a change of
service and upon approval by the Board of Directors, the user shall pay an
additional connection charge for each additional connection unit or part
thereof resulting from the change of service, if any, calculated as set forth
in division (B) above.
      (2)   If an existing user wishes to expand his or her user service in the
same category of connection unit description as set forth in division (B)
above, he or she shall likewise apply to the city for expanded service and upon
approval by the Board of Directors, the user shall pay an additional connection
charge for each additional connection unit or part thereof resulting from the
expanded service, to be calculated as set forth in division (B) above.
      (3)   In the case of either changing the user service or expanding an
existing use, the connection charge for each additional unit shall be the
connection charge in effect at the time such application for change of type of
service or for expanded service is made to the city.
      (4)   If property changes from one use to a lower use or decreases in the
amount of service required, no refund for connection charges shall be granted.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 51, passed 2-5-1975; Ord. 53, passed 2-5-1979;
Ord. 110, passed 12-5-1983; Ord. 169, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 52.083 CONNECTION FEES FOR EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The original connection fees shall apply to all potential users in the city
who have an existing structure which would be required to connect if sewers
were available at the time the official notice is given to connect in
accordance with §
52.003(D) of this chapter, but cannot connect to the system due to
unavailability of a sewer line in any street, alley, or right-of-way abutting
his or her property. At such time as sewer is available to the property, the
original connection fee schedules and time schedules for connection shall
apply, the time schedules shall begin running from the date of availability of
sewer to the property and after written notice being given to each property
owner by the secretary to connect.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.084 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Time limits on connection may be extended by the secretary on proof
that physical connection could not reasonably be made within the initial 90
days from the first official notice to connect. If satisfied that connection
could not reasonably be made within the time limit and due to no fault of the
applicant, the secretary may grant an additional 90-day period in which to
allow connection without penalty, providing, however, that the connection fee
must be paid prior to making application for extension of time and the
application must be made prior to the lapse of the time limit for connection
for which the applicant is seeking extension.
   (B)   Any applicant for extension of time may appeal the decision of the
secretary to the Directors in accordance with the same form of hearing as set
forth in §
52.003(D) of this chapter, providing the applicant files his or her objections
with the secretary and requests a hearing within ten days of the secretary’s
denial of extension. All requests, allowances, and denials of and for
extensions of time shall be in writing and filed in the city office.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
STANDARDS FOR SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION
§ 52.095 GENERAL.
   Sanitary sewer construction by local government agencies or private persons
for sewers to be connected to the city sewerage system shall conform to the
rules and regulations of the city, provisions of applicable state agencies, and
the following standards, the provisions of which, unless otherwise approved by
the secretary, shall be included in all project specifications. In the event of
conflict, the highest applicable standard, as determined by the secretary,
shall apply.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.096 SAFETY.
   Any person or persons constructing sewers within the city or sewers outside
city limits to be connected to city sewerage system shall fully comply with the
applicable state laws and current safety regulations.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.097 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   (A)   Sewer pipe and fittings for mains and laterals. Sewer pipe shall be
concrete, conforming to ASTM C14, Class 2, or C76 with ASTM C150, Type II
cement; clay conforming to ASTM C200 and clay pipe institute west coast
standards; asbestos-cement conforming to ASTM C42 8, Type II, or cast iron
conforming to Federal Specification WW-P-421.
   (B)   Pipe joints.
      (1)   Clay joints shall be either the Speed-Seal, manufactured by
Gladding, McBean, and Company, or the Wedge-Lock, manufactured by Pacific Clay
Products, or as approved. Joints shall comply with ASTM C425. Lubricants for
jointing shall be as approved by the pipe manufacturer.
      (2)   Concrete pipe joints shall be rubber-gasketed type. Joints shall
conform to ASTM C443, including performance requirements for joints.
      (3)   Asbestos-cement sewer pipe joints shall be an approved coupling
type with rubber gasket, conforming to ASTM D1869. Couplings shall consist of
an asbestos-cement sleeve, machined, or otherwise arranged for use with rubber
sealing gaskets. Sleeves shall be arranged so the rubber rings are self-
positioning. Couplings shall be Ring-Tite, Fluid-Tite, or other approved
pattern standard with the pipe manufacturer. Lubricant for jointing shall be as
approved by pipe manufacturer.
      (4)   Cast-iron pipe joints shall be mechanical joint or Tyton joint pipe
as manufactured by the United States Pipe and Foundry Company or as approved.
   (C)   Tee fittings.
      (1)   Joints on all tee fittings shall be the same as the joints used on
the sewer pipe. Caps or plugs shall be furnished with each tee outlet or stub
with the same type gasket and joint as furnished with the service connection
pipe specified. The plug or cap shall be banded or otherwise secured to
withstand all test pressures involved without leakage.
      (2)   On concrete pipe, fittings 18 inches and under shall be shop-
fabricated. Stubs shall be flush with inside of the pipe. Fabrication shall be
as shown on the sewer service connection details in the standard details on
file in the city offices.
   (D)   Service connection pipe and fittings. Service connection pipes shall
conform to one of the following specifications. All pipe shall be air-tested
without leakage for ten seconds at an average pressure of 9.5 psi prior to
delivery to the user.
      (1)   Concrete conforming to ASTM 14, Class 2, with rubber gaskets
conforming to ASTM 443, except the pipe shall have a minimum one-inch thick
wall.
      (2)   Cast iron soil pipe conforming to commercial standard 188 with
leaded and caulked joints or approved rubber-gasketed joints.
      (3)   Asbestos-cement conforming to ASTM C644 with joints conforming to
ASTM D1869. Class 2400 shall be used in all trenches deeper than ten feet.
Class 1500 may be used in trenches of lesser depth.
      (4)   Clay conforming to ASTM C200 with joints conforming to ASTM 425.
      (5)   Fittings shall be manufactured with nominal inside diameters of
four and six inches. Long-radius bends shall be used at all changes in
direction. Pipe and fittings for individual service connections shall be of one
type of material, and no interchanging of pipe and fittings of different
material will be allowed. Pipe and fittings shall be one of those specified
above. Service connection construction shall conform to the sewer service
connection details in the standard details on file in the city office.
   (E)   Manholes.
      (1)   Concrete for manhole bases shall be ready-mixed conforming to ASTM
C94, Alternate 2. Compressive field strength shall not be less than 2,500
pounds per square inch at 28 days.
      (2)   Reinforcing steel shall conform to ASTM 615, grade 40, deformed
bars.
      (3)   Precast manhole sections shall be minimum 42-inch diameter
conforming to ASTM C478. Eccentric cones shall be used. Manhole steps are not
required.
      (4)   Manhole frames and covers shall be cast iron of size, shape, and
minimum weight detailed on the standard manhole details in the standard details
on file in the city office. Covers shall have the word “sewer” in two-inch
raised letters.
      (5)   Castings shall be tough, close-grained gray iron, sound, smooth,
clean, free from blisters, blow-holes, shrinkage, cold shuts, and all defects,
and shall conform to ASTM A4 8, Class 30. Plane or grind bearing surfaces to
ensure flat, true surfaces. Covers shall be true and seat within the ring at
all points.
   (F)   Cleanouts. Unless otherwise approved by the secretary, cleanouts or
lampholes will not be permitted on any sewer except four- and six-inch service
connections.
   (G)   Gravel for pipe base and backfill in the pipe zone. Gravel for pipe
base and backfill in the pipe zone shall be crushed rock or pea gravel as
follows.
 
Pipe Size Gravel
4” to 183/4” minus
Over 18”1-1/2” minus
 
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.098 WORKMANSHIP.
   If the existing material in the bottom of the trench is unsuitable for
supporting the pipe, the unsatisfactory material shall be removed and the
trench bottom stabilized to the satisfaction of the engineer with one and one-
half inch crushed rock.
   (A)   General. Workmanship for sewer construction shall conform to the
highest standards of the trades performing the work. All pipe shall be laid in
accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations.
   (B)   Excavation of sewer trenches. Excavation for sewer trenches shall be
of sufficient width and depth to properly install and inspect the sewer pipe;
in no case shall the overall trench width be less than the outside pipe
diameter plus 18 inches.
   (C)   Main, lateral, and service connection pipe.
      (1)   Pipe and service connection pipe shall be laid on a compacted
gravel base four inches or greater in depth. When solid rock occurs in the
bottom of the trench, the depth of the base shall be increased two inches.
      (2)   Bell holes shall be dug at each joint to permit proper assembly and
inspection of the joint.
Ample means shall be provided and maintained to dispose of any water entering
the trench during the pipe-laying operation. No pipe shall be laid in water.
      (3)   Line and grade shall be maintained as shown on the plans or as
established by the engineer. Variations more than one-half inch for line and
one-fourth inch for grade will not be permitted.
      (4)   Where pipe is connected to manholes or concrete structures, the
connection shall be such that a standard pipe joint is located not more than
one and one-half feet from the nearest outside edge of the structure for non-
reinforced concrete, clay, and asbestos-cement pipe.
      (5)   Unless otherwise approved by the secretary, backfill the pipe zone
with gravel as specified under §
52.097(G) of this subchapter. The pipe zone is considered to include the full
width of the excavated trench from the top of the gravel base to a point ten
inches above outside surface of the barrel of the pipe as shown on the pipe
zone backfill detail in the standard details on file in the city office.
      (6)   Particular attention must be given to the area of the pipe zone
from the top of the gravel base to the center line of the pipe to insure that
firm support is obtained to prevent any lateral movement of the pipe during the
final backfilling of the pipe zone.
   (D)   Service connection tees. Install service connection tees as shown on
the sewer service connection details in the standard details on file in the
city office and provide a compacted gravel base under each tee.
   (E)   Service connection markers. Install service connection markers as
shown on the sewer service connection details in the standard details on file
in the city office.
   (F)   Manholes. Construct manholes in accordance with the standard manhole
details in the standard details on file in the city office. Provide a minimum
of six inches compacted gravel under the manhole base. Manhole extension rings,
not exceeding 12 inches in height, shall be used in all streets to bring the
manhole frame and cover to the proper elevation for the final street surfacing.
   (G)   Cleanouts. Construct service connection cleanouts as shown on the
sewer service connection details in the standard details on file in the city
office. Cleanouts on main or lateral sewers shall not be permitted unless
approved by the secretary.
   (H)   Backfill and surfacing replacement. Trench backfill above the pipe
zone and surfacing replacement within public rights-of-way that are presently,
or at any time in the future may come, under the jurisdiction of the city, the
county, or the state shall conform in all respects to requirements of
appropriate agencies.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.099 AIR OR HYDROSTATIC TESTS.
   An internal hydrostatic or air pressure test shall be made of every section
of sewer, including service connections, after the completion of the final
trench backfill as follows.
   (A)   Hydrostatic testing. All pipe and joints in the system shall sustain a
maximum leakage limit of 0.3 gallon per hour (gph) per inch diameter per 100
feet when field tested by exfiltration methods. The hydrostatic head for test
purposes shall exceed the maximum estimated groundwater level in the section
being tested by at least 12 inches, and in no case shall be less than 24 inches
above the inside top of the highest section of pipe in the test sections,
including service connections. In every case, the height of the water table at
the time of the test shall be determined by exploratory holes or such other
methods as approved. The length of pipe tested hydrostatically shall be limited
so that the pressure on the invert of the lower end of the section shall not
exceed 16 feet of water column. The section of pipe to be tested may be filled
24 hours prior to time of hydrostatic testing, if desired, to permit normal
absorption into the pipe walls to take place.
      (3)   All service connection footage included in the test section and
subjected to the minimum head specified shall be taken into account in
computing allowable leakage. An allowance of 0.2 gph per foot of head above
invert shall be made for each manhole included in a test section.
   (B)   Air testing.
      (1)   Pipe and joints being air-tested shall be considered acceptable
when tested at an average pressure of 3.0 pounds per square inch greater than
the average back pressure of any groundwater that may submerge the pipe, when
the total rate of air loss from the section being tested does not exceed 2.0
cubic feet per minute; or the section of line does not lose air at a rate
greater than 0.0030 cubic foot per minute per square foot of internal pipe
surface.
      (2)   The pipe and joints shall also be considered as acceptable when the
time required in seconds for the pressure to decrease from 3.5 to 2.5 pounds
per square inch greater than the average back pressure of any groundwater that
may submerge the pipe is not less than that computed in accordance with the
recommended procedure for conducting acceptance test in the standard details on
file in the city office.
   (C)   Manholes.
      (1)   A random sample of manholes selected by the secretary up to 10% of
the total project number, but in no case less than 5%, shall be tested by
hydrostatic methods. Leakage in each manhole shall not exceed that specified
for hydrostatic testing.
      (2)   If more than 50% of the manholes tested fail the hydrostatic test,
the contractor shall be required to test all or as many manholes as the
secretary may deem necessary. All manholes that do not meet the requirements of
the test, or are unsatisfactory from visual inspection, shall be repaired to
conform to the requirements herein.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
STANDARDS FOR BUILDING SEWER AND
SERVICE CONNECTION CONSTRUCTION
§ 52.110 GENERAL.
   These standards have been adopted for the purpose of controlling the quality
of materials and workmanship used in the construction of building sewers and
service connections with the city. No deviations from these standards shall be
made without written approval of the City Supervisor.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 216, passed 4-11-1995)
§ 52.111 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   (A)   Building sewer pipe.
      (1)   The building sewer and service connection pipe may be constructed
of one of the following materials:
         (a)   Concrete conforming to ASTM C14, Class 2, with rubber gaskets
conforming to ASTM 443, except the pipe shall have a minimum one-inch thick
wall;
         (b)   Cast iron soil pipe conforming to commercial standard 188 with
leaded and caulked joints or approved rubber-gasketed joints;
         (c)   Asbestos-cement conforming to ASTM C644 with joints conforming
to ASTM D1869. Class 2400 shall be used in all trenches deeper than ten feet.
Class 1500 may be used in trenches of lesser depth;
         (d)   Clay conforming to ASTM C200 with joints conforming to ASTM 425;
         (e)   PVC conforming to ASTM D3034 and D3033; and
         (f)   Other pipe meeting standards approved by the Department of
Commerce, Building Codes Division.
      (2)   The minimum size of any building sewer or service connection pipe
shall be determined on the basis of the standards set forth by the Department
of Commerce, Building Codes Division.
   (B)   Pipe base and backfill in the pipe zone. Material for pipe base and
backfill in the pipe zone shall be suitable granular material subject to
inspection. Sand may be used in ditches where there is no groundwater.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 216, passed 4-11-1995)
§ 52.112 WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   Size and slope. The size and slope of the building sewer and service
connection shall be subject to the approval of the secretary, but in no event
shall the diameter be less than four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe
shall not be less than one-fourth inch per foot, unless otherwise approved by
the secretary and in no case will slopes less than one-eighth inch per foot be
approved.
   (B)   Excavation and backfill.
      (1)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
and service connection shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by
the secretary. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Secretary. Minimum cover shall be 1/16” above the top of the pipe unless
otherwise approved by the secretary.
      (2)   All excavations for building sewer and service connection
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the secretary.
   (C)   Building sewer inspection.
      (1)   Building sewer pipe shall be installed in accordance with ASTM C12
and the recommendations of the manufacturer. The joints shall be water-tight.
The pipe shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as
possible. Changes in direction shall be made with no greater than 45-degree
radius bends. All pipe shall be laid on a minimum four-inch pipe base placed
for the full width of the trench. Backfill around the pipe to a point six
inches above and for the full width of the trench shall be the same material,
hand-placed, and tamped.
      (2)   Building sewer connections shall be made on the building side of
the existing septic tanks. When connecting cast iron soil pipe or PVC pipe to
asbestos-cement, clay, or concrete pipe, a special approved adaptor shall be
used. An approved adaptor shall also be used when connecting the building sewer
to the service connection.
   (D)   Testing fitting. A tee or wye fitting shall be the first fitting at
the junction of the building drain and the building sewer. The fitting shall be
of the same material as the service connection pipe and shall be furnished by
the owner. A riser of the same material as the service connection pipe shall
extend to finished ground surface and shall be sealed with an approved cap or
plug. This riser shall be used for inserting a test plug for water testing the
building sewer and as an auxiliary cleanout. Backfilling around the riser shall
be done in such a manner so as not to damage the pipe and provide firm support
for the riser.
   (E)   Building sewer and service connection inspection and testing.
      (1)   The applicant for building sewer and service connection permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer and service connection has been
laid, connected to the service connection, but not backfilled or connected to
the building drain. After inspection and approval by the secretary, the
building sewer and service connection trench shall be backfilled except at the
point of connection to the building drain. The building sewer and service
connection shall be constructed so they are gas- and water-tight. Any sanitary
building sewer, in which water infiltration or exfiltration is evident, shall
be reconstructed or repaired so that they are gas- and water-tight.
      (2)   Any sewer which is tested, either before or after the backfill is
completed, and found by such test to be defective, shall be repaired and re-
tested to assure that the said sewer is gas- and water-tight. If, for cause, an
inspector has reason to believe that a building sewer and service connection
does not conform to the requirements of these rules, he or she may require that
said sewer be tested according to the provisions of this section and that all
leaks be repaired.
      (3)   Building sewer and service connection installations or pipe which
is made for gravity flow sewers shall be capable of withstanding a pressure
test consisting of water under static pressure with at least eight-foot average
head of water applied internally to all parts of the sewer being tested; or
compressed air with at least three and one-half pounds per square inch gauge
pressure applied inside all parts of the sewer being tested and held for at
least three minutes after the pressure in the sewer has been stabilized and the
source of air pressure disconnected; or other effective test which is in
accordance with good engineering practice and accepted by the Department of
Commerce, Building Codes Division.
      (4)   After the building sewer and service connection has successfully
passed inspection, or if deemed necessary by the secretary, has successfully
passed the sewer pressure test, the city will authorize connection of the
building sewer in an approved manner to the building drain.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 216, passed 4-11-1995)
PENALTIES
§ 52.125 DENIAL OF CONNECTION.
   No local government agency or person may connect a sewer to the city
sewerage system unless such agency or person shall then be in compliance with
all of these rules and regulations and standards of construction.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.126 ISSUANCE OF STOP WORK ORDER.
   If any local government agency or person shall construct a public sewer,
private sewer, or building sewer in violation of these rules and regulations
and standards for construction, the city may issue an order to such agency or
person to stop work in progress which is not then in compliance with these
rules and regulations and standards for construction, or the city may issue an
order to correct the work which has been performed. Such agency or person shall
forthwith take such action as may be necessary to comply with such order and
with these rules and regulations and standards for construction, all at the
expense of such agency or person.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.127 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER TO DISCONTINUE PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The city may order the owner of any property from which
discharges prohibited by §§
52.025 through
52.031 of this chapter are entering any sewer to correct such condition,
provided that if the property of such owner lies within a local government
agency, the city shall first give written notice of such prohibited discharge
to the agency, and only if such agency fails to correct such condition within
30 days after receipt of such notice, the city may directly order such owner to
correct such condition.
      (2)   If any owner shall not cause such condition to be corrected within
30 days following receipt of such city order, the city may enter upon such
property and remove or close sewer connections as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person discharging any material deemed to be dangerous, injurious
to treatment process, or hazardous to any person, structure, or treatment unit
may be subject to immediate discontinuance of sewer service without prior
notice at the discretion of the secretary.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to enter upon the person’s property to
remove or close sewer connections as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.128 DELINQUENCY.
   The obligations for payment of sewer service charges required by the city
shall become due and payable on the tenth day of each month and shall be
considered delinquent 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975; Ord. 110, passed 12-5-1983)
§ 52.129 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   In the event of failure to pay sewer service charges after they become
delinquent, failure to cease discharging to the sewer substances prohibited by
any rules and regulations of the city, or failure to have flow or sampling
devices in proper operating condition for more than one week, the city shall
have the right to remove or close sewer connections, and enter upon the
property for accomplishing such purposes.
   (B)   The expense of such removal, or closing, as well as the expense of
restoring service, shall likewise be a debt due to the city and may be
recovered by civil action in the name of the city against the property owner,
the person or both.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.130 RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   Sewer service shall not include the expense of removal, have been paid, and
the cause for be restored until all charges, closing, and restoration, shall
discontinuance of service corrected.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.131 OWNERSHIP AND OCCUPANCY.
   Change of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall not be
cause for reducing or eliminating these penalties.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violation.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of an infraction, and on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation, and including attorneys fees.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to injunctive relief against violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-8-1975)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Solid waste removal fees
   
53.02   Mandatory residential yard debris and compostable collection
   
53.03   Closure of Agate Beach landfill fee
§ 53.01 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL FEES.
   The amount shall be as set by resolution by the City Council from time to
time.
(Res. 495-20, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 53.02 MANDATORY RESIDENTIAL YARD DEBRIS AND COMPOSTABLE COLLECTION.
   The City Council authorizes the additional mandatory service of residential
yard debris and compostable collection in accordance with the franchise
agreement between the city and North Lincoln Sanitary Service. The requested
rates increase for mandatory residential compostable collection service upon
initiation of the program in March 2021 will be increased by $6.85 at the time
that mandatory compostable collection service is initiated as part of those
services.
(Res. 497-20, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 53.03 CLOSURE OF AGATE BEACH LANDFILL FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fee on waste generated with the city,
such fee to be known as the Agate Beach closure fee. Such fee shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the City Council, in such amount as will result
in the accumulation of sufficient funds to pay the proportional share of the
city of the closure and post-closure costs associated with the Agate Beach
landfill site, and/or as will provide the city’s proportional share of an
income source adequate to permit the issuance, sale, and repayment of revenue
or other bonds sufficient to pay such closure and post-closure costs.
   (B)   Any such Agate Beach closure fees so imposed and received by the city
shall be deposited to a special revenue fund to be established for such
purpose, to be used exclusively for the city’s proportional share of closure
and post-closure costs of the Agate Beach landfill. When such costs have been
fully and adequately funded, the imposition and collection of this fee shall be
terminated.
   (C)   Such fee shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other fee,
charge, or cost imposed upon the franchisee, solid waste, or upon solid waste
generators, under the provisions of this section or otherwise. Such fee is
imposed with respect to solid waste collected within the city on or after 12:01
a.m. September 11, 1993.
(Ord. 201, passed 1-4-1994; Res. 363, passed 7-18-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Regulations
   
70.01   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Administration
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Duty to obey traffic signs and signals
   
70.06   Unlawful marking
   
70.07   Method of parking
   
70.08   Parking of oversize vehicles
   
70.09   Prohibited parking
   
70.10   Towing of vehicles
   
70.11   Construction parking permits
Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants
   
70.25   County Sheriff’s office to act as seizing agent
Restricted Driving
   
70.40   City parks
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC-CONTROL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Violations of provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 481, 482, 483, 484, or 485, now
or hereafter constituted, shall be an offense against the city.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Traffic Code, in addition to those definitions
contained in the adopted chapters of the motor vehicle laws of the state, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A narrow street through the middle of a block.
   LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of materials or freight.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including tractors,
fork-lift trucks, motorcycles, road-building equipment, street-cleaning
equipment, and any other vehicles capable of moving under their own power,
notwithstanding that the vehicles may be exempt from licensing under the motor
vehicle laws of the state.
   PARK or PARKING. The condition of:
      (1)   A motor vehicle that is stopped while occupied by its operator with
the engine turned off; or
      (2)   A motor vehicle that is stopped while unoccupied by the operator,
whether or not the engine is turned off.
   PASSENGER (LOADING) ZONE. A loading zone reserved only for the loading or
unloading of passengers and their luggage.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person on the public right-of-way, except:
      (1)   The operator or passenger of a motor vehicle or bicycle; or
      (2)   A person leading, driving, or riding an animal or animal-drawn
conveyance.
   STAND or STANDING. The a stopping of a motor vehicle while occupied by its
operator with the engine running, except stopping in obedience to the
instructions of a traffic officer or traffic-control device or for other
traffic.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STREET and OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
      (1)   STREET. The terms “highway,” “road,” and “street,” when used in
this Traffic Code or in the Oregon Revised Code chapters incorporated herein,
shall be considered synonymous, unless the context precludes such construction.
STREET, as defined in this chapter and the Oregon Revised Code chapters
incorporated by reference herein, includes alleys, sidewalks, and parking areas
and access ways owned or maintained by the city.
      (2)   OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. Property, whether publicly or
privately maintained, upon which the public operates motor vehicles either by
express or implied invitation other than streets, as defined above, and
excepting public school property, county property, or property under the
jurisdiction of the State Board of Higher Education.
      (3)   OTHER PROPERTY OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL shall include but not be
limited to parking lots, service station lots, shopping center and supermarket
parking lots, and other access ways and parking areas open to general vehicular
traffic, whether or not periodically closed to public use.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. A device to direct vehicular or pedestrian traffic,
including but not limited to a sign, signaling mechanism, barricade, button, or
street or curb marking installed by the city or other authority.
   TRAFFIC LANE. The portion of the roadway used for the movement of a single
line of vehicles.
   VEHICLE. As used in subsequent sections of this Traffic Code, includes
bicycles.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Council, for the best use of the streets in the public interest,
shall, by resolution, exercise the following powers, based on standards
established by the State Highway Commission and recognized traffic-control
standards, such as the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices published by
the Bureau of Public Roads; providing, where required by the motor vehicle laws
of the state, approved by the State Highway Commission has been secured:
   (A)   Designate streets, portions of streets, sides of streets, or city-
owned or leased land upon which parking, standing, or operation of vehicles
shall be prohibited, either entirely, partially, or during certain hours or
limited as to the amount of time during which a vehicle may remain so standing
or parked, for the angle of such parking;
   (B)   Designate through streets;
   (C)   Designate one-way streets;
   (D)   Designate truck routes;
   (E)   Designate streets where trucks, machinery, or any other large or heavy
vehicle exceeding specific weights or heights shall be prohibited from
traveling or parking;
   (F)   Designate where traffic-control signals shall be placed and the time
of operation of such signals;
   (G)   Establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other
passenger common-carrier vehicles;
   (H)   Designate the location of passenger loading zones for use in front of
the entrance to any hotel, auditorium, theatre, church, school, or public
building;
   (I)   Designate and cause to be placed or maintained appropriate signs,
marks, or lines for:
      (1)   Intersections where drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left;
or U-turns, and the times such prohibitions shall apply;
      (2)   Crosswalks at intersections where deemed necessary for pedestrian
safety;
      (3)   Safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as
deemed necessary for pedestrian safety; and
      (4)   Play streets, or such hours when certain streets may be used as
such, on which no person shall drive a vehicle upon such street or portion
thereof; except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such enclosed area, and then such driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon such street.
   (J)   Cause to be placed or marked and maintained:
      (1)   Traffic-control signs;
      (2)   Parking spaces;
      (3)   Traffic lanes and other symbols; and
      (4)   All other signs and markings necessary to implement traffic and
parking controls.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 101, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 118, passed 12-4-
1984; Ord. 138, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be within the authority of the city’s enforcement officers as
provided for in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances, or any police officer of the state or
county to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.05 DUTY TO OBEY TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   All drivers of motor vehicles and all pedestrians shall obey all the
instructions of every traffic sign, signal, marker, barrier, or parking meter
placed in accordance with the motor vehicle laws of the sate or this chapter,
including those erected by any authorized public utility and department of this
city or other authorized person, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or when otherwise directed by a police officer or enforcement
officer.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall move, remove, or alter the position of,
or deface or tamper with, any such sign, signal, marker, or barrier.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 UNLAWFUL MARKING.
   Except as provided by this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to
letter, mark, or paint in any manner any letters, marks, or signs on any
sidewalk, curb, or other portion of any street, or to post anything designed or
intended to prohibit or restrict parking in any street.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches
of the edge of the curb, except where the street is marked or signed for angle-
parking; in which case, the motor vehicle shall be parked with the front head-
in to the curb at the angle of and between painted stripes or other markings
upon the pavement where such head-in parking is indicated; and except in places
where and at hours when stopping or the loading or unloading of merchandise or
materials is permitted, vehicles used for the transportation of merchandise or
materials may back in to the curb to take on or discharge loads when the owner
of such vehicle holds a permit granting him such privilege; and such permit
shall be either in the possession of the driver or on the vehicle at the time
such vehicle is backed against the curb to take on or discharge a load; and it
shall be unlawful for any owner or driver to violate any of the special terms
or conditions of any such special permit.
   (B)   Where parking space markings are placed on a street or city-owned or
leased land for public parking purposes, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle other than at the indicated direction and within a single marked space.
   (C)   Whenever the owner or driver of a vehicle discovers that such vehicle
is parked immediately in front of or close to a building to which the Fire
Department has been summoned, he or she shall immediately remove such vehicle
from the area, unless otherwise directed by police or fire officers.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 138, passed 2-16-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 PARKING OF OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle which, because of its size or shape, cannot be parked as
provided by §
70.07 of this subchapter, may be parked outside the restricted or limited
parking area of the city in a manner which will not impede or interfere with
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 70.09 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   In addition to provisions of the motor vehicle laws of the state prohibiting
parking, no person shall park:
   (A)   A vehicle upon any bridge, viaduct, or other elevated structure used
as a street, unless otherwise indicated by lawfully installed signs, or a
vehicle upon a street in such manner as to prevent orderly two-way traffic;
   (B)   A vehicle in any alley except to load or unload persons or materials
not to exceed 30 minutes, and then only in such a manner as to leave available
space for another vehicle to pass such parked vehicle;
   (C)   A vehicle upon any street for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by
an emergency;
      (3)   Displaying advertising from such vehicle;
      (4)   Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly established
market place or when so authorized or licensed under the ordinances of the
city; or
      (5)   Storage, or as junkage or dead storage, for more than 72
consecutive hours.
   (D)   A vehicle upon any parkway except where specifically authorized;
   (E)   A vehicle upon any street, if permitted to stand unattended without
first stopping the engine, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
street when standing on any grade, stopping the motor, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, and effectively setting the brake thereon;
   (F)   A vehicle upon any street, in any area designated by resolution of the
City Council, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., without first
stopping the operation of any auxiliary motor or engine, including but not
limited to those for refrigeration or electrical generation purposes; or
   (G)   A vehicle upon any street, alley, parkway or city-owned or leased land
designated for public parking purposes, when a barricade, sign, or other
indicator has been placed, erected, or posted, designating the area as a no
parking zone.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 138, passed 2-16-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   Any vehicles parked or left unattended for any period of time shall be
subject to being removed by the city at the expense of the owner and/or
operator whom shall be required to pay all costs of removal, storage, and other
costs incurred as a result of the violation.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 70.11 CONSTRUCTION PARKING PERMITS.
   Notwithstanding §§
70.03,
70.05,
70.08, and
70.09(G) of this subchapter, it shall be permissible for a vehicle properly
displaying a construction parking permit to park in on-street parking spaces,
subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The construction parking permit (hereinafter in this section “permit”)
shall permit parking in designated on-street parking spaces on Highway 101,
from the north city limits to the south city limits adjacent to the
construction project for which the permit has been issued.
   (B)   Except as may be approved by the City Supervisor, a vehicle displaying
a permit may park in the on-street parking space for 60 continuous minutes
provided that the vehicle did not previously park within 50 feet of the space
within 15 minutes or any portion thereof. The owner or operator of a vehicle
displaying a permit may obtain permission from the City Supervisor to park for
more than 60 continuous minutes upon a showing of special construction needs.
The approval of the City Supervisor shall be displayed next to the permit, and
it shall indicate the time when the permission was given and the time when the
permission to park for more than 60 continuous minutes expires.
   (C)   Where height limitations to the on-street parking spaces are imposed
by ordinance or resolution of the city, a vehicle of greater height may
nevertheless park in the on-street parking space during such time as the
vehicle is being loaded or unloaded. Notwithstanding division (B) above, upon
completion of loading and unloading of construction materials, the vehicle must
be removed to a place where parking of such vehicle is permitted and the
vehicle would not otherwise be in violation of the height limitation imposed by
ordinance or resolution.
   (D)   Except as expressly permitted by the City Supervisor, the permits
shall not be in effect during the hours of 12:00 p.m. Saturday through and
including 6:00 p.m. Sunday. If the City Supervisor permits a vehicle to park in
the parking space during the time above, the written approval of the City
Supervisor must be displayed next to the permit.
   (E)   The construction parking permits shall be issued by the city to a
licensed contractor while the contractor is engaged in the construction of a
structure or excavation within the city. The city may issue not more than two
parking permits to the contractor who submits the building plan or excavation
plan. “Contractor” shall include the owner of the property if the owner is
performing the work. The permit shall be “project specific,” in that the
permits issued with an approved building permit shall be valid only for parking
adjacent to that building site. The city shall note the building permit number
or building site location on the permit.
   (F)   Any person who has been issued a construction parking permit may allow
the contractor’s employees or other subcontractors or their employees to use
the parking permit, provided the permit is displayed from the vehicle. In such
event, violation of the terms of this section shall be deemed a violation by
the contractor, in addition to it being a violation by the operator of the
vehicle.
   (G)   (1)   If the City Supervisor or designee has reason to believe that a
violation of this section has occurred and the permit is not being properly
used or the vehicle displaying the permit has violated the provisions of this
Traffic Code, the City Supervisor shall immediately contact the permittee, if
possible, to notify the permittee of the violations. If the City Supervisor is
unable to contact the permittee, the City Supervisor may contact any of the
permittee’s supervisors or other employees on the construction site and notify
them of the alleged violations.
      (2)   The permittee or agent may give reasons or explanations for the
alleged violations when notified of the alleged violations. The City Supervisor
shall consider the statements of explanations and, if in the City Supervisor’s
opinion, a violation has occurred, the City Supervisor shall suspend the
privileges of the permit and demand return of all permits issued to the
permittee. It shall be a violation of this Traffic Code for a permittee to fail
or refuse to surrender all permits upon demand by the City Supervisor.
      (3)   A permittee may appeal the decision of the City Supervisor or seek
reinstatement of the permit by request to the City Council. The City Council
shall consider the appeal or request and may uphold the decision of the City
Supervisor, reverse the decision or uphold the decision, or impose conditions
for reinstatement of the permits. The permittee shall have three days following
the surrender of the permit(s) to appeal the decision of the City Supervisor or
to request reinstatement of the parking permits. If no appeal is filed within
three days, the decision of the City Supervisor shall be final. Upon appeal or
request by the permittee for reinstatement, the decision of the City Council
shall be final. Upon final determination for revocation of the parking permit,
the permittee, the permittee’s employees, or agents or subcontractors shall not
obtain or use a permit for six months following the final determination for
revocation of the permit.
   (H)   The City Recorder shall cause the form of the permit to be prepared
and issued, and shall maintain records of the date of issuance, the permittee,
the building permit, or site location for which the permit is issued, the
permittee’s mailing address and emergency phone number and name, address and
phone number of person to contact in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 161, passed 4-1-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS
§ 70.25 COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE TO ACT AS SEIZING AGENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 809.730 (relating to forfeiture of certain vehicles
being driven by persons who are under the influence of intoxicants, which has
been codified as Lincoln County Code §§ 2.3000 and 2.3005, and as those code
sections may later be amended by subsequent ordinance of the County Board of
Commissioners) shall apply within the city.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s Department may act as the “seizing agency” for
purposes of application of the county ordinance described in division (A) above
within the city.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners may also enter into an
intergovernmental agreement pursuant to O.R.S. Chapter 190 with the state
police that permits the state police to also act as a “seizing agency” for
purposes of application of the county ordinance described in division (A) above
within the city.
   (D)   The county, a political subdivision of the state, may act as the
“forfeiting agency” for purposes of application of the county ordinance
described in division (A) above within the city.
   (E)   The office of county legal counsel may act as “forfeiture counsel” for
purposes of application of the county ordinance described in division (A) above
within the city.
   (F)   By exercise of the county ordinance described in division (A) above by
the county, and enforcement thereof, the county shall indemnify, hold harmless,
and defend the city against any costs or claims arising out of or resulting
from any vehicle forfeiture by the county as permitted by this section.
(Ord. 210, passed 11-7-1994)
RESTRICTED DRIVING
§ 70.40 CITY PARKS.
   No person shall drive or operate a vehicle on any portion of the city park
unless the vehicle is operated upon a trail, service road, parking lot, or
other area designated for use by vehicles.
(Res. 62, passed 12-4-1984) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction, and shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to
exceed $20 for parking violations, and $500 for non-parking violations. Each
violation of a separate provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate
infraction, and each day that a violation of this chapter is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate infraction.
(Ord. 100, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 118, passed 12-4-1984)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Loading and unloading zones
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The city field superintendent is directed to place and maintain appropriate
signs to advise the public of the one-way traffic on the streets listed in this
schedule below. The enforcement officers are authorized to issue citations for
any vehicles or persons in violation of this schedule.
 
Street           Direction                                Ord./Res. Date Passed
                 Traffic moving southerly from Ellingson
                 Street to Evans Street; Coast Street
Coast Street     shall revert to a two-way street at the  Res. 62   12-4-1984
                 intersection of Coast Street and Evans
                 Street
Ellingson Street Traffic moving westerly from Highway 101 Res. 62   12-4-1984
                 to Coast Street
SW Beach Street  All                                      Res. 397  9-15-2009
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   The loading and unloading zone will begin 57 feet east of the crosswalk of
Highway 101 and Bay Street. The loading and unloading zone will be on the south
side of Bay Street. It will be 40 feet in length and clearly marked with green
paint. This restriction shall be applicable between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m. every day and in no event shall a vehicle occupy the zone longer than
20 minutes during any one-hour period.
(Res. 120, passed 7-17-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Handicapped parking
      
II.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
 
Description                                         Ord./Res. Date Passed
North of Bay Street on Highway 101                  Res. 120  7-17-1989
South of the bridge of the east side of Highway 101 Res. 120  7-17-1989
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   No parking. Parking shall be prohibited in the following streets in
the city.
Street Direction Ord./Res. Date Passed
Street     Direction                                                                     Ord./ Date
                                                                                         Res.  Passed
Bay Street North side between U.S. Highway 101 and Williams Avenue                       Res.  12-4-
                                                                                         62    1984
Ellingson  Westerly 20 feet terminus of street or along the sides of Ellingson Street 30 Res.  2-5-
Street     feet eastward from its westerly terminus                                      215   1996
Evans      Between Coast Drive and U.S. Highway 101                                      Res.  12-4-
Street                                                                                   62    1984
Fire       Next to the Rural Fire Protection District’s fire hall or next to or beside Res.  12-4-
station    U.S. Highway 101 as it fronts upon the easterly side of the fire hall         62    1984
area
Harbor     No public parking on harbor properties except in designated areas             Res.  12-4-
facilities                                                                               62    1984
Highway    South side entrance of U.S. Post Office driveway to north side entrance to    Res.  12-18-
101 (east  Hatcher’s Liberty Deli driveway                                             126   1989
side)
N.E.       North and south sides between the intersections of Highway 101 and N.E.       Res.  10-6-
Clarke     Williams Avenue                                                               255   1997
Street
N.E.                                                                                     Res.  12-20-
Bechill    North and south sides                                                         454   2016
Street
N.E. Combs East and west sides between the intersections of N.E. Clarke Street and       Res.  10-6-
Avenue     Collins Street                                                                255   1997
N.W.                                                                                     Res.  12-17-
Graham     North and south sides                                                         332   2003
Street
N.W.                                                                                     Res.  4-16-
Sunset     North and south sides from Highway 101 westerly to Floral Avenue              308   2002
Street
S.E.       East and west sides between the intersections of Collins Street and Bay       Res.  10-6-
Williams   Street                                                                        255   1997
Avenue
S.E.       East and west sides between its intersection with Collins Street and Winchell Res.  3-3-
Ainslee    Street                                                                        241   1997
Avenue
S.W.       Along north and south sides for a distance of 50 feet from the corner         Res.  5-16-
Southpoint intersection of S.W. Southpoint Street and S.W. Point Avenue                  281   2000
Street
S.W. Point Along the east and west sides for a distance of 50 feet from the corner       Res.  5-16-
Avenue     intersection of S.W. Point Avenue and S.W. Southpoint Avenue                  281   2000
Shell Road From U.S. Highway 101 north to its termination near the harbor facilities     Res.  12-4-
                                                                                         62    1984
Williams   East side between its intersections with Collins Street and Lane Street       Res.  9-7-
Avenue                                                                                   181   1993
Williams   East and west sides between its intersection with Collins Street and Lane     Res.  12-6-
Avenue     Street                                                                        186   1993
 
   (B)   Overheight restrictions.
      (1)   Parking shall be limited to vehicles having a length of 17 feet or
less and a height of five feet or less on the east side of Highway 101 in the
following zones.
         (a)   The first four angle parking spaces south of Bay Street;
         (b)   The first four angle parking spaces north of Bay Street;
         (c)   The first four angle parking spaces south of Collins Street; and
         (d)   The first four angle parking spaces north of Collins street.
      (2)   Parking shall be limited to vehicles having a height of six feet or
less in the area described as both sides of Highway 101 (Oregon Coast Highway
#9) southbound from Sunset Highway (M.P. 127.10, engineering station 361 + 90)
to Bechill Street (M.P. 127.25, engineering station 369 + 80) and northbound
from Bechill Street to Austin Street (M.P. 127.11, engineering station 362 +
40).
   (C)   Prohibited parking when school in session. Parking along the northeast
side of Conway Avenue, northward 30 feet from its intersection with Bay Street
is prohibited from Monday through Friday while school is in session.
   (D)   Two-hour parking.
 
Street                  Description                     Ord./Res. Date Passed
Highway 101 (west side) Between Vista Street and Harney 132       6-18-1990
                        Street
 
   (E)   City parks. No vehicle shall be parked in any area of the city park
other than in areas designated for vehicle parking. In those areas, the
following restrictions shall apply.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked in the city park areas between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.
      (2)   No parking of empty boat trailers shall be permitted in excess of
one week without a permit from the city. The city may issue a permit for one
additional week upon application at the port office.
      (3)   No parking of boats, on or off of trailers, in excess of 72 hours
shall be permitted without a permit from the city. The city may issue a permit
for an additional 48 hours upon application at the port office.
(Res. 182, passed 10-18-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   HARBOR REGULATIONS
      
93.   NOISE REGULATIONS
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Fair housing practices
§ 90.01 FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale, rental, lease, advertising of sale, rental
or lease, financing of housing or land to be used for construction of housing,
or in the provision of brokerage, rental services because of race, color, sex,
physical and mental disability, familial status (children), or national origin
is prohibited by Title VIII of the federal Fair Housing Act of 1968, being 42
U.S.C. 3601 et seq., as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988,
being Pub. Law No. 100-430, § 1, Sept. 13, 1988, 102 Stat. 1619. It is the
policy of the city to support the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and to
implement a fair housing program to ensure equal opportunity in housing for all
persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, disability (physical and
mental), familial status (children), or national origin.
   (B)   Within the resources available to the city through city, county,
state, federal, and community volunteer sources, the city will assist all
persons who feel they have been discriminated against because of race, color,
religion, disability (physical and mental), familial (children), or national
origin in the process of filing a complaint with the Oregon Civil Rights
Division or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Seattle
Regional Office Compliance Division, that they may seek equity under federal
and state laws.
(Res. 173, passed 5-17-1993)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted
§ 91.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by the Rural Fire Protection District is
hereby adopted by reference and shall apply within the boundaries of the city.
(Res. 59, passed 6-4-1984)
CHAPTER 92: HARBOR REGULATIONS
Section
Rules and Regulations
   
92.01   General provisions
   
92.02   Harbor Commission
   
92.03   Organization of the Commission
   
92.04   Powers and duties
   
92.05   Definitions
   
92.06   Use of harbor facilities
   
92.07   Sanitation
   
92.08   Wheeled vehicles or devices and aircraft operation
   
92.09   Fire, safety, hazardous substances, and operations
   
92.10   Electrical systems
   
92.11   Permits
   
92.12   Business at harbor facilities
   
92.13   Vessel categories, charges, and fees
   
92.14   Enforcement
Fees, Rates, and Charges
   
92.25   Moorage fees
   
92.26   Billing for electrical use by moored vessels
   
92.27   Base fuel rates
   
92.28   Annual pass for launchpad, fishing cleaning station, and parking
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Reference. This chapter shall be referred to as the harbor ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is to secure the
most effective control and management of the harbor properties and facilities
of the city.
   (C)   Application. These rules and regulations are applicable to all harbor
properties and facilities of and in the city. All vessel owner/operators and
persons entering or using the facilities shall be subject to the policies
herein defined.
   (D)   Availability of chapter. Anyone may inspect a copy of these rules and
regulations in the city hall office and copies may be obtained upon request.
   (E)   Construction. Unless otherwise required by the context or any
particular provision, the words or phrases defined in §
92.05 of this subchapter shall have the meanings as set forth therein. The use
of any gender shall include all genders; the singular shall include the plural
and the plural shall include the singular. When used throughout this chapter,
the terms “shall” is mandatory and “may” is permissive, and the provisions of
this chapter shall apply to individuals, partnerships, associations, and
corporations alike.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 92.02 HARBOR COMMISSION.
   (A)   Membership. The Commission shall consist of five regular members to be
appointed by the City Council. Not more than two of the regular membership can
live outside of the city.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office for members shall commence on
January 1 of the first year of appointment by the City Council, and shall
expire four years thereafter on December 31, or until their successors are
appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Removal from office. Any member of the Commission may be removed by a
majority vote of the City Council at any time without cause. No member shall
miss more than two consecutive meetings. Should a member miss three consecutive
meetings, a report shall be provided to the City Council. The member may be
removed from the Commission unless the City Council deems the absences as
excused.
   (D)   Vacancies in office. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled by
appointment made by the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (E)   Oath of office. Members of the Commission shall qualify by taking and
subscribing an oath of office to uphold the Constitution of the United States
and the state and the Charter and ordinances of the city, and to faithfully and
impartially perform the duties of the office to the best of his or her ability.
   (F)   Compensation of members. The members of the Commission shall receive
no compensation as such, except as the City Council may approve reimbursement
to Commission members for out-of-pocket expenses.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012; Ord. 304, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. 316, passed - -
2017)
§ 92.03 ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Chair and vice-chair. At the first regular meeting each January, the
Commission shall elect a chair and vice-chair from the regular membership who
shall serve in that capacity for a one-year term. Any vacancy will be filled by
election for the unexpired portion of the term. The chair shall preside over
all Commission meetings. The vice-chair shall preside over the meetings in the
absence of the chair. The chair and/or vice-chair shall perform such other
duties on behalf of the Commission as imposed by the Commission or ordinance.
   (B)   Secretary. The Commission shall elect a secretary, who need not be a
member of the Commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Commission. The secretary shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings of
the Commission and shall perform such other duties as are imposed by the
Commission.
   (C)   Liaison to City Council. The Commission shall elect a liaison officer,
who shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission. The liaison officer shall
report to the City Council at a regular Council meeting as necessary.
   (D)   Quorum. Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Voting. The concurrence of a majority of the members present at a
Commission meeting shall be necessary to decide any question before the
Commission.
   (F)   Meeting time and place/location of business records. The Commission
shall meet at least once a month, or as Commission business requires. The
regular meeting place of the Commission shall be as designated by the City
Council from time to time. The Council shall designate a place for the
transaction of the business of the Commission and keeping of its records.
Workshops or portions of meetings may be held in the dock area or elsewhere
when it is determined by the chair of the Harbor Commission that the change in
location is necessary for conducting Commission business.
   (G)   Commission procedures. The Commission may make, establish, and alter
rules and regulations for its governance and procedure consistent with the laws
of the state and with the Charter and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012; Ord. 304, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. 316, passed - -
2017)
§ 92.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General powers and duties. The Commission shall have the powers and
duties set forth by ordinance of the city or as delegated by the City Council.
   (B)   Recommendations to Public Works Director. It shall be the duty of the
Commission and it shall have the power, except as otherwise provided by law, to
recommend and make suggestions to the Public Works Director, harbormaster, or
such other person as designated by the City Council concerning the following
matters:
      (1)   The formation of rules and regulations for the operation and use of
harbor facilities;
      (2)   Planning for future growth, development, and improvement with
respect to harbor facilities;
      (3)   To recommend improvements and maintenance with regard to harbor
facilities; and
      (4)   Conduct lease negotiations with leaseholders of city harbor
facilities and recommend proposed leases to the City Council for consideration
and execution.
   (C)   Normal maintenance of harbor facilities. The Public Works Director
shall supervise the execution of normal harbor facility maintenance.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 92.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. A vessel or other personal property shall be deemed abandoned if:
      (1)   It is left on or in the harbor facilities either without
identification or evidence of ownership and without notification to the city of
ownership and:
         (a)   Without notification to city of intent to leave for more than
five days; or
         (b)   Notification to city of intent to leave, but failure to return
within five days of date stated to city for date of return.
      (2)   It is not removed from the harbor facilities within 15 days from
date of mailing notice to vacate by the city by regular mail to registered
owner at last known address, according to records of U.S. Coast Guard for
federally documented vessels, Oregon State Marine Board for state licensed
vessels, or to owner or person in control as registered with city; or
      (3)   The vessel is not registered with the city within 12 hours of
commencement of use of the harbor moorage.
   EMERGENCY. A state of imminent danger to life, property. or navigation in
which time is of the essence.
   ENVIRONMENTAL LAW. Any federal, state, or local law, statute, ordinance, or
regulation pertaining to hazardous substances, health, industrial hygiene, or
environmental conditions, including without limitation the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, being 42 U.S.C.
9601 et seq., as amended, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976, being 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq., as amended.
   GOOD CAUSE. Exists when it is established by satisfactory evidence that an
action, circumstance, or omission was beyond the reasonable control of the
person and, under similar circumstances, would be beyond the reasonable control
of a reasonable and prudent person exercising ordinary common sense.
   HARBOR COMMISSION. The Commission appointed by the City Council and acting
under the ordinances of the city and recommending plans, regulations, and
improvements to the harbor facilities.
   HARBOR FACILITIES. All facilities and equipment owned, leased, or operated
by the city for the purpose of providing or facilitating usage of the city
harbor by vessels and the public, including but not limited to moorage
facilities, boat launch facility, vessel fueling facility/dock, fish plant
facility, and parking areas.
   HARBORMASTER. The person appointed by the city to serve as harbormaster and
any deputy harbormaster or other employee authorized or designated by the city
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any hazardous, dangerous, toxic, infectious, or
radioactive substance, waste, or material, as defined or listed by any
environmental law and shall include, without limitation, petroleum oil, and its
fractions.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, gaseous, or solid waste substance or
combination thereof resulting from any process of industry, manufacturing,
trade, agricultural, or agricultural operation or business, or from the
development or recovery of any natural resources, which may cause or might
reasonably be expected to cause pollution of the harbor property or the waters
controlled by the city.
   LITTER. Any and all types of debris and substances, whether liquid, gaseous,
or solid or a combination thereof, including but not limited to garbage,
refuse, rubbish, glass, cans, bottles, paper, and paper products, wrappings,
decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, cement, lime, cinders, ashes, offal,
oil, tar, dyestuffs, acids, chemicals, dead animals or parts thereof, manure,
human or animal wastes, putrid, decaying or deleterious substances or matter,
petroleum wastes or any machinery, appliances, or automobiles or parts thereof,
or any other substances which may render the harbor property or waters
controlled by the city unsightly, noxious, or otherwise unwholesome or to the
detriment of the public health and welfare.
   MOORAGE. Any place where a vessel lies when at anchor or is made fast to a
dock or is laid alongside another vessel made fast to a dock, and shall include
side and multi-side ties.
      (1)   RESERVED MOORAGE. A designated moorage as defined above which is
specifically assigned to the use permit holder on an annual basis, reserved for
use only by the permit holder, and which is paid for on an annual basis.
      (2)   TRANSIENT MOORAGE. An undesignated moorage in which the period of
occupancy is not established by a reserved moorage use permit or an unreserved
moorage use permit, and the charges for transient moorage are based upon the
period occupied, daily or for one month.
      (3)   UNRESERVED MOORAGE. An undesignated moorage which is on an annual
basis, and which is paid for on an annual basis.
   MOORAGE FACILITIES. Those facilities of the city where vessels may moor to
wharfs, docks, pilings, walkways, and finger piers.
   MOORAGE USE PERMITS. The three types, being:
      (1)   Reserved MOORAGE USE PERMIT is an agreement between the boat owner
or operator and the city for the use of a reserved moorage;
      (2)   Unreserved MOORAGE USE PERMIT is an agreement between the owner/
operator and the city for the use of the unreserved moorage and using a moorage
facility on a space as available basis; and
      (3)   Transient MOORAGE USE PERMIT is an agreement between the owner/
operator and the city for daily or monthly moorage for any vessel to use the
harbor moorage facility and which belongs to an owner/operator who does not
have a reserved or unreserved MOORAGE USE PERMIT in effect. Transient vessels
or guest boats include, but are not limited to vessels seeking a harbor of
refuge, day(s) use, or overnight(s) use of a moorage facility on a space-as-
available basis.
   OVERALL LENGTH. The distance from the foremost part of the bow (including
the bowsprit or other protruding portion of the vessel) to the aftermost part
of the stern including any protruding portion of the vessel except outboard
engines or stern drives, regardless of keel length and regardless of registered
length.
   OVERALL WIDTH. The distance between the outermost part of each side of the
hull of the vessel including any protruding portion, regardless of registered
width.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any person who claims lawful care, custody, or control of a
vessel by virtue of legal title or equitable interest therein which entitles
him or her to possession or has authority over the operation of the vessel
pursuant to authority of the legal or equitable owner and has so stated on the
moorage agreement that he or she is the operator of the vessel.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the City Council to serve as
the Public Works Director, and acting under its direction.
   SEWAGE. Water, chemical, or other liquid carried human or animal wastes from
vessels, motor vehicles, trailers, residences, buildings, industrial or
commercial establishments, or other places with such ground water infiltration
and surface water as may be present.
   UNDERWAY. The condition of a vessel, not at anchor, without moorings, and
not made fast to the shore or ground.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft in the water used or capable of
being used.
   VESSEL; COMMERCIAL. Any vessel used or engaged for any type of commercial
venture, including but not limited to the display of advertising, commercial
fishing, or the carrying of passengers or cargo for hire. Commercial fishing
boat is defined as one that holds a valid resident or non-resident commercial
fishing boat license and a valid commercial fishing license which authorizes
the activity of selling his or her own catch directly from the vessel from
which the catch was made and only to the ultimate consumer.
   VESSEL; HAZARDOUS. A vessel which is determined by the city to be
unseaworthy or in a state of disability which if unduly prolonged could
endanger the marine environment or life or property or become a hazard to
navigation.
   VESSEL; STRAY.
      (1)   An abandoned vessel;
      (2)   A vessel, the owner/operator of which is unknown;
      (3)   A vessel moored without permission; or
      (4)   A vessel underway without a competent person in command.
   VESSEL; VIOLATION. Any vessel entering and remaining at the harbor without
authorization; or remaining at the harbor after moorage use permit has been
terminated; or in violation of any ordinance pertaining to the harbor of the
city.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 92.06 USE OF HARBOR FACILITIES.
   (A)   Animals. Animals shall not be allowed on the harbor facilities unless
securely restrained by a leash, chain, or other device which restricts their
freedom, and under the control of a responsible person. No person shall leash
or tie any animal on any harbor facility in such a manner that would create a
danger to any other person using the walkway or other facility, or that would
obstruct normal traffic on the facility.
   (B)   Boat launch. Persons may launch vessels or retrieve vessels from the
waters of the harbor of the city from the designated boat launch facility. The
use of the boat launch shall be at the vessel owner’s or operator’s risk. All
persons launching or retrieving vessels using the boat launch facility shall
exercise reasonable care to avoid damage to the boat launch facility or to
other persons or property in or about the boat launch area. Use of the boat
launch facility is subject to payment of such fee as may be determined by the
City Council by resolution from time to time. The Harbor Commission shall
establish appropriate procedures for the collection of such fees and may issue
rules and regulations with respect to the use of the boat launch facility, and
direct that appropriate signage be placed to advise the public as to the rules
and regulations with respect to use of the boat launch facility.
   (C)   Children. Children under the age of 14 years shall not be allowed on
any harbor facility unless wearing a Coast Guard approved life jacket, or
unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, guardian, or other responsible
adult.
   (D)   Condition of vessels and other property. 
      (1)   Every vessel and all other personal property moored at or located
on harbor properties or facilities of the city shall be kept and maintained in
such condition of repair, maintenance, neatness, and orderliness so as not to
constitute a condition of nuisance, substantial danger or risk, or harm to
persons or property, or facilities. Every vessel moored at harbor properties or
facilities of the city must, at all times, be completely seaworthy, fully
operational, and ready for immediate cruising in local waters under its own
power. Lack of seaworthiness may result in removal of the vessel as a hazardous
vessel unless:
         (a)   The vessel is undergoing short-term (30 days or less) repairs
that render the vessel inoperable; or
         (b)   Authorization has been obtained from the city to effect repairs
rendering the vessel inoperable for longer than 30 days.
      (2)   In no event shall the vessel be rendered inoperable for a period
exceeding 90 days.
   (E)   Fish cleaning. No person shall clean or process fish or shellfish on
any harbor facility or from any vessel secured thereto, except in areas so
designated by the city.
   (F)   Fishing and crabbing. No person shall fish or crab from any harbor
facility except from 30 minutes before sunrise to 30 minutes after sunset. All
fishing and crabbing gear shall be removed from the harbor facilities within 30
minutes after sunset.
   (G)   Harbor equipment. All city-owned equipment shall be operated by city
employees only. Harbor equipment includes but is not limited to the port boat
and hoist. Use of the port boat or hoist is subject to payment of such fee as
may be determined by the City Council by resolution from time to time.
   (H)   Moorage facilities. Prior to using the harbor facilities for moorage
by any vessel, the owner/operator shall contact the city and register the
vessel and obtain a moorage use permit for the moorage of the vessel. With the
exception of transient moorage, payment for the moorage shall be made in
advance prior to the mooring. Transient moorage shall be made in advance or
within 12 hours of commencement of use of harbor moorage, the owner/operator
shall register and pay for transient moorage.
   (I)   Performance of maintenance.
      (1)   No person shall perform maintenance on any personal property except
in those areas so designated by the city.
      (2)   No person shall perform any type of maintenance on a vessel except
in a safe and workmanlike manner, and shall not create, suffer, or permit any
offensive or hazardous conditions while so performing.
      (3)   No tools, equipment, parts, or materials shall be placed on or
about the maintenance area that would create an offensive or hazardous
condition, or impede public access or use of the facility.
   (J)   Storage/designated storage areas. No person shall store supplies,
materials, or equipment on any harbor facility or any other public area of the
harbor except in areas designated by the city and with prior consent by the
city. Persons may use such storage areas as designated by the Harbor Commission
in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Any person, except the city, desiring to store floating docks,
cranes, and personal property, such as crab pots, in the designated storage
area shall apply to the city for permission. Upon payment of the required fee
(as set by the City Council by resolution), and providing space is available,
the docks, cranes, or personal property may be stored in a designated storage
area between October 1 to May 31. Storage beyond these dates must be
specifically authorized in writing by the city.
      (2)   Floating docks stored within the storage area shall not be stacked
over three docks in height.
      (3)   Persons using the storage facilities shall be responsible for the
items stored and for injuries to persons or other property caused by the
persons using the storage facilities or their items stored therein.
      (4)   No storage boxes shall be allowed on harbor docks.
      (5)   Storage of sport crab pots is allowed on docks during crab season,
plus two weeks. Any other personal property will be allowed at the
harbormaster’s discretion. In the event a person who is storing personal
property on harbor facilities fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
this subchapter or fails to remove all items stored, the city shall have the
right to move and relocate any personal property left on the harbor facilities,
or to declare the property abandoned and proceed with disposition pursuant to §
92.14(B) of this subchapter. The removal and relocation of personal property by
the city shall be at the risk of the owner and/or person in lawful possession
who failed to remove the items of personal property and the owner and/or person
in lawful possession shall pay to the city a fee of $50 for said removal and
relocation, plus the actual costs of storage incurred by the city.
   (K)   Structures. No buildings or structures of any nature whatsoever shall
be placed or constructed on city properties or facilities without prior written
approval of the city.
   (L)   Swimming and diving. No person shall swim or dive from any harbor
facility without written authority from the city. This section shall apply to
recreational swimming and diving.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.07 SANITATION.
   (A)   Standard. All vessels, personal property, facilities, or equipment on
or about, or used on or about city harbor properties or property or water under
control of the city, shall be kept at all times in a condition of reasonable
cleanliness and sanitation so as not to constitute a common nuisance or
existing or potential danger or harm to public health.
   (B)   Animal wastes or droppings. No person having control of any animal on
city facilities shall allow waste or droppings of that animal to remain on any
harbor facility of the city. Animal wastes or droppings shall immediately be
removed and placed in a waste receptacle.
   (C)   Fish carcass/fish waste. No person shall cause, suffer, permit,
deposit, or dispose of fish carcass or fish waste on or about the city harbor
properties, city property, or water under the control of the city, except as
specifically allowed in this section.
      (1)   Commercial users.
         (a)   Commercial users shall be responsible for disposal of fish
carcass and fish waste and shall not use city refuse or waste containers or
other city facilities for disposal. Commercial users are persons, businesses,
concessionaires, and non-public entities performing any regular or non-
incidental activity or event conducted for the purpose of selling products or
providing goods or services for a profit or private financial gain.
         (b)   Commercial uses include, but are not limited to, permanent or
portable stores, restaurants, shops, commercial fishing vessels, ocean
charterboats, fish cleaning services, tour or excursion boats, shuttle
services, ticket sales, and watercraft rentals.
      (2)   Non-commercial users. Non-commercial users may dispose of fish
carcass and fish waste:
         (a)   By proper use of the grinder and/or city refuse or waste
containers at the public fish cleaning station;
         (b)   By transferring such carcass or waste to a person or entity that
has agreed to dispose of such materials in such a way as to not violate any
federal or state law or regulation applicable to the materials;
         (c)   By removing of such materials from the harbor properties; or
         (d)   By disposing of such materials upon the waters of the harbor,
provided such carcass or waste was exclusively used for recreational crabbing
within the harbor.
   (D)   Industrial waste. No person shall throw, place, leave, deposit, or
abandon, or cause or permit to be thrown, placed, left, deposited, or
abandoned, any industrial waste, litter, or sewage on any city harbor public
property, except in receptacles designed by the city for the disposal of such
materials or substances.
   (E)   Odorous waste. No person shall cause, suffer, permit, place, leave,
deposit, or abandon aboard any vessel, in any motor vehicle or trailer, or on
any city harbor properties or other public property, litter in the nature of
offal, garbage putrid, or decaying or deleterious substances which give off an
offensive odor, except in a closed nonporous container.
   (F)   Off-premises waste. No person shall use city refuse or waste
containers for other than wastes or litter generated on city harbor properties
or waters controlled by the city and for those wastes or litter generated from
a vessel’s voyage.
   (G)   Toilet standards. No person on a vessel equipped with a toilet shall
use or permit the use of such toilet on waters controlled by the city, unless
the vessel is equipped with facilities approved by the U.S. Coast Guard, or
other appropriate governmental agency, and such equipment is in good operating
condition adequate to treat, hold, incinerate, or otherwise handle sewage in
such a manner that is capable of preventing water pollution. Dumping of vessel
holding tanks in harbor waters is not allowed. Persons shall use the CVA pump/
dump station for dumping of vessel holding tanks.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.08 WHEELED VEHICLES OR DEVICES AND AIRCRAFT OPERATION.
   (A)   Aircraft landing. No person shall land any aircraft, fixed or rotary
wing, on city harbor properties or facilities except in an emergency or after
receiving permission from the city.
   (B)   Wheeled vehicles or devices. No person shall use any wheeled vehicles
or devices on any harbor facility except if the device is necessary to
accommodate a physical handicap or the device is used to transport necessary
supply or maintenance items, and such devices are not used in a manner that
creates a danger or hazard on the facilities. Wheeled vehicles or devices
include but are not limited to mopeds, motorcycles, motorized wheelchairs,
motor assisted scooters, electric mobility devices, bicycles, non-motorized
vehicles other than bicycles (skateboards, scooters), wheeled carts, and
wagons.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.09 FIRE, SAFETY, HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES, AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The provisions of this section are intended to govern the
general safety of vessels, harbor facilities, and properties of the city and
are not intended to limit the powers of any local, state, or federal agencies.
   (B)   Standards. All vessels, personal property, city property, or any items
used on or about city properties shall be used in such a manner and maintained
in such a condition as not to constitute a fire or safety hazard. The failure
to conform to any local, state, or federal regulation or ordinance regarding
fire safety or safety operations may be considered in determining violation of
this section.
   (C)   Combustibles. Combustible materials shall be stored in such place and
manner as to prevent accidental combustion and fire, except that rags and waste
materials saturated with combustible fluids must be removed from city property
immediately after use and may be further limited herein below. No person shall
dump, discharge, pump, or allow to be dumped, discharged, or pumped, any oil,
gasoline, distillate, any petroleum products, or any other flammable materials
onto city properties or into waters within the boundaries of the city. Persons
shall use the waste petroleum recycling facility for disposal of oil, gasoline,
distillate, and petroleum products.
   (D)   Electronic equipment. No person shall knowingly use, repair, or test
any electronic equipment on or about the facilities of the city or waters
within the boundaries of the city in such manner as to cause interference with
other electronic equipment in the area or injury or harm to any person or
property in the area.
   (E)   Environmental compliance; hazardous substances. Persons shall take all
practicable measures to minimize the quantity and toxicity of hazardous
substances brought into, used, or handled at the properties of the city or upon
waters within the boundaries of the city. All persons shall notify the city
immediately upon becoming aware of any spill, leak, disposal, or other release
of hazardous substances on, under, or adjacent to the harbor. As allowed by
law, the city may inspect a person’s use of any hazardous substances at the
harbor properties at any time upon reasonable notice, or without notice in the
event of an immediate threat to the general safety of the harbor.
   (F)   Fueling. No person shall fuel or cause to be fueled, a vehicle or
watercraft on properties of the city or upon waters within the boundaries of
the city except at areas so designated by the city. The fueling area is the
fuel dock station (dock five).
   (G)   Fuel storage. No person shall store or cause to be stored, any fuel
for any vehicle or watercraft on or upon the city properties or waters within
the boundaries of the city except in tanks or containers designed for that
purpose, and in areas where such tanks or containers shall not come into
contact with sparks or heat or other conditions which may cause it to ignite.
   (H)   Welding and fuel torch equipment. No person shall:
      (1)   Use any welding equipment on any harbor facility except in such
areas as may be approved by the city;
      (2)   Do any welding with equipment that fails to meet state safety
requirements and without having in his or her possession a fire extinguisher of
the kind approved by the United States Coast Guard for use on a commercial
vessel;
      (3)   Use any blowtorch, acetylene torch, or similar type equipment for
the repair or refurbishing of any watercraft in such a manner as to cause
injury, harm, or damage to any person or property at or about the area of use;
or
      (4)   Do any welding without conducting a one-hour fire watch upon
completion. A pre- and post-work wash down is required.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.10 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Damage to system. No person shall do any act which will cause damage
to or destroy any part, portion, or the whole of the electrical system on the
harbor facilities.
   (B)   Use of electrical system. No person shall change, modify, or use the
existing electrical system except as specifically authorized by the city.
   (C)   Excessive use. No person shall draw more amperage from the electrical
system or individual outlets or services than as designed and available from
one outlet, except that one additional outlet may be used on a temporary basis
to operate power tools while the worker is on site making vessel repairs.
   (D)   Vehicle or vessel contact prohibited. No person shall cause any
vehicle or watercraft to be placed or moored in such a manner that the vehicle
or watercraft or any part or extension thereof would come into contact with the
electrical system or parts thereof.
   (E)   Approved connector. No person shall use other than a marine three-wire
plug, 3/12 cord, approved by the city when using electricity from the city’s
electrical system.
   (F)   Electrolysis. No person shall cause, permit, suffer, or maintain any
boat that discharges electrical currents in the harbor waters which result in
electrolysis in the harbor. The city shall disconnect electrical service to
such vessel and deny electrical hookup until the fault is corrected.
   (G)   Electrical surcharge. It is hereby imposed upon the owner/operator of
a vessel moored at the moorage facilities pursuant to a reserved or unreserved
moorage permit, a surcharge for electrical service for each month or any
portion of a month during which the vessel owned or operated by the owner/
operator connects to the electrical system of the harbor facilities. The
surcharge shall be in such amount as set by resolution by the City Council and
as amended from time to time thereafter by resolution.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.11 PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is the policy of the city that the moorages in the harbor
are to be used for the purpose of accommodating vessels operating in
conformance with the rules and regulations of the city and full and timely
payment of moorage fees and charges.
   (B)   Use permits required. No person shall moor a vessel at harbor
facilities without having first entered into a written moorage use permit
agreement with the city in the form and in the manner required by the city.
   (C)   Vessel must be licensed or documented. As required by state or federal
law, all vessels shall be licensed or documented at all times during the period
of a moorage use permit.
   (D)   Period of validity and renewal of use permit.
      (1)   A reserved or an unreserved moorage use permit shall be issued for
one year or for such time as provided by division (D)(3) below. Upon expiration
of the period stated therein, the moorage use permit and all rights of the
permittee thereunder shall automatically terminate. No moorage use permit,
reserved or unreserved, shall be renewed unless the conditions of issuance are
met and all fees and charges due and payable have been paid.
      (2)   A transient vessel moorage use permit may be issued for any period
of time at the daily rate, or for a period of 30 days at the monthly rate, as
provided by the then current resolution of the City Council.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) above, the referenced one-year
period shall begin on July 1 and end June 30 of the following calendar year,
except for the first year of reserved or unreserved moorage (which is for a
365-day period, terminating on the same day of the next year following the
commencement of the reserved or unreserved moorage use permit). For purposes of
the first year of reserved or unreserved moorage, the beginning date shall be
the first day such use is permitted and shall extend for one year. In the event
the moorage is renewed in a timely manner, the moorage fee for the second year
shall be prorated from the renewal date through the following June 30. To
determine the prorated moorage fee for the second year’s moorage, the
appropriate annual fee shall be divided by 12 and the result multiplied by the
number of months or any portion of a month of permitted use. In the event the
moorage use permit holder wishes to terminate the moorage use permit and seek a
refund of a portion of moorage paid, the determination of a refund, if any,
shall be as follows: the difference between the annual moorage amount paid and
the transient daily rate multiplied by the number of days from the prior
renewal date to the date of termination. If the moorage amount paid by permit
holder exceeds the calculated figure, the city shall refund the difference.
   (E)   Uses permitted. The use permit agreement and use permit emanating
therefrom shall allow the use of the boat launch and of the moorage facilities
for moorage purposes only and shall grant no further right privilege or use.
Additional or varying uses shall not be allowed, except as provided in the
following divisions in this section.
   (F)   Live-aboard. Live-aboard shall mean any person sleeping overnight or
any other activity normally connected with temporary lodging. Residing aboard a
moored vessel for more than 18 days during any consecutive 30-day period is
prohibited.
   (G)   Non-transferability of permits. Reserved or unreserved moorage use
permits may not be sublet or in any other way beneficially assigned. Reserved
or unreserved moorage use permits are non-transferable, except when authorized
by the City Council under the following conditions:
      (1)   If a vessel is sold as the result of the death or disability or
illness of the permit holder, the permit may be transferred with the vessel
when sold. Only one transfer under this provision per part-owner or owner/
operator shall be allowed;
      (2)   If two or more vessels are being traded between boat owners so the
net result does not change the moorage configuration within the harbor;
      (3)   If a vessel owner sells a vessel and replaces it with another
vessel that may, in the judgment of the harbormaster, be safely moored in the
same berth or in a suitable, available berth on the public docks when no one is
on the waiting list for such berth;
      (4)   If a vessel owner transfers title to a corporation in which the
vessel owner owns and maintains ownership of not less than 51% of the issued
and outstanding stock;
      (5)   Upon the sale of a working charter boat with a valid city business
license to an individual who shall continue working in the harbor as an active
licensed charter boat, the purchaser of said vessel shall have the first right
of refusal on said vessel’s existing moorage space at the time of the sale;
      (6)   Upon the sale of a licensed actively working commercial fishing
boat to an individual who shall continue working in the harbor as a licensed
active commercial fishing boat, the purchaser of said vessel shall have the
first right of refusal on said vessel’s existing moorage space at the time of
the sale. For the purposes of this exception, “commercial fishing boat” is
defined as one that holds a valid resident or non-resident commercial fishing
boat license and a valid commercial fishing license which authorizes the
activity of selling his or her own catch directly from the vessel from which
the catch was made and only to the ultimate consumer; or
      (7)   If a vessel owner/moorage use permit holder of a reserved moorage
space removes the permitted vessel from the assigned moorage space to conduct
repairs on said vessel, the vessel owner/moorage use permit holder may use the
assigned moorage space for a same class size, or smaller class size, vessel
owned or controlled by the vessel owner/moorage use permit holder until the
permitted vessel is repaired. Prior to mooring the alternate vessel, the vessel
owner/moorage use permit holder shall obtain and maintain a valid use permit
for the alternate vessel pursuant to division (I) below.
   (H)   Grace period. In the event the holder of a reserved moorage use permit
sells or involuntarily loses the vessel, except by foreclosure by the city, the
reserved moorage use permit shall remain with the original permittee, providing
that the permittee has purchased or purchases within one year of the date of
the sale or loss, another vessel that is compatible to the size of the berth
previously occupied and pays the reserved moorage use permit fees at time of
renewal. Prior to mooring the new vessel, permittee shall obtain a valid
moorage use permit for the new vessel pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (I)   Acquisition of moorage use permits.
      (1)   All reserved moorages will be assigned by the harbormaster at such
time as appropriate moorage space is available. Except as provided by division
(G) above, reserved moorage use permits will be granted to the applicant who is
the highest on priority (determined by time) on the waiting list and who owns a
vessel that is compatible to the berth that is available. Any person refusing
to accept an assigned reserved moorage berth without good cause as determined
by the harbormaster, may be dropped from the waiting list.
      (2)   All unreserved moorage and transient moorage use permits for a
period exceeding three days shall be granted upon proof of insurance and
payment of charges provided there is no violation of any city ordinance and
there is sufficient unreserved moorage space available, on a first come basis.
There is no waiting list for unreserved or transient moorage use permits.
      (3)   Applicants for the waiting list for a reserved moorage use permit
shall certify the following information: true dimensions (overall length and
overall width); applicant’s name, address, telephone number, document, or
certificate number and name or proposed name of vessel. The application must
bear the signature of the applicant and signature of the city employee
receiving the application. At the time of assignment of reserved moorage,
pursuant to divisions (D)(1), (D)(3), (I)(4) of this section and §
92.13(C) of this subchapter, a reserved moorage use permit shall be granted
upon proof of insurance and payment of charges provided there is no violation
of any city ordinance. Signatures of both the applicant and the city employee
will be required for a valid application on all new and yearly renewals of
moorage use permits.
      (4)   All applicants for new or renewed reserved, unreserved, and
transient moorage use permits for a period exceeding three days shall have in
force and effect watercraft liability-protection and indemnity insurance and
pollution liability insurance in an amount not less than $500,000 for the term
of the moorage use permit. All such insurance policies required under this
section shall name the city as additional insured and shall include a provision
governing notifying the city prior to any early cancellation of the policy.
Proof of all such insurance policies required under this section shall be
provided to the city as a condition of issuance of a moorage use permit. The
certificate of insurance provided as proof shall clearly identity the insurance
coverage and name the city as “additional insured” on the policy. Non-motorized
vessels are excluded from the requirement to carry pollution liability
insurance, all other requirements of this section shall apply.
      (5)   All unreserved moorage and transient moorage use permits for a
period of three days or less shall be granted upon receipt by the city of
applicant’s signed indemnification and hold harmless agreement (incorporated by
reference herein and attached to Ordinance 292) and payment of charges provided
there is no violation of any city ordinance and there is sufficient unreserved
moorage space available, on a first come basis. There is no waiting list for
unreserved or transient moorage use permits.
   (J)   Additional rights not implied. The issuance of an unreserved moorage
use permit does not grant any rights or privileges to a holder of an unreserved
moorage use permit with regard to consideration for the granting of a reserved
moorage use permit. Holders of an unreserved moorage use permit must apply for
a position on the waiting list for a reserved moorage use permit in the same
manner as those not having an unreserved moorage use permit.
   (K)   Waiting list. The city shall maintain a waiting list of applications
for reserved moorage use permits. The waiting list shall be divided into
categories determined by the city, based upon the various sizes of berths or
moorages available in the harbor. All new and renewing waiting list
applications shall be subject to payment of such fee as may be determined by
the City Council by resolution from time to time.
   (L)   Applicability of moorage use permits.
      (1)   Reserved moorage use permits shall be issued to a named owner/
operator of a vessel and shall be valid only for a specific vessel in a
designated moorage.
      (2)   Unreserved moorage use permits shall be issued to the named owner/
operator of a vessel. The unreserved moorage use permits are valid only for a
specific vessel.
      (3)   Transient moorage use permits shall be issued to the owner/operator
and are valid only for a specific vessel.
   (M)   Reassignment. Any moorage space may be reassigned at the option of the
harbormaster if the orderly administration of the moorage facility so requires,
notwithstanding the prior designation of a specific moorage berth in the
moorage use permit. Permittees may apply for reassignment, however granting
reassignment is at the option of the harbormaster. A reassignment determination
by the harbormaster may be appealed to the Harbor Commission. A written appeal
shall be filed with the city no later than within five business days of the
date of reassignment determination. An appeal, timely filed, will be presented
to the Harbor Commission at the first regular Harbor Commission meeting
following filing of the appeal. Appeals are de-novo. Moorage reassignment may
also be made by the Harbor Commission or the harbormaster if a vessel’s size in
relationship to the size of the assigned berth does not permit maximum and
efficient public utilization of harbor facilities or if a reassignment will in
any other manner increase the efficient public utilization of moorage
facilities.
   (N)   Temporary assignment and reassignment. Holders of moorage use permits
may be temporarily assigned or reassigned to other berths or spaces to
accommodate repairs, improvements, maintenance, construction, emergencies, or
special events.
   (O)   Permittee’s mailing address. The permittee shall at all times keep the
city informed of his or her current mailing address and telephone number, and
an alternate telephone number. Permittee shall notify the city immediately upon
any change of ownership of the vessel and further shall notify the city
immediately upon vacating the moorage assigned by the city. Failure to keep the
city informed is a breach of covenant of use permit and grounds for revocation
of the permit.
   (P)   Cancellation of use permit for berth repair or elimination. The city
may deny the application for moorage space or the reissuance of a reserved
moorage use permit when a berth is unusable, modified, eliminated, or in need
of repairs.
   (Q)   Revocation of use permit. If after notice, the permittee fails to
remedy any breach of the duties, covenants, or conditions of the permit or to
cease and desist from violating or permitting the violation of these rules and
regulations, the city may revoke the permittee’s use permit and take
appropriate enforcement procedures. In addition to the foregoing, the city may
revoke a use permit for a deliberate misstatement or willful failure to
disclose any material fact in an application for any of the permits specified
in this chapter.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012; Ord. 298, passed 9-20-2013) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.12 BUSINESS AT HARBOR FACILITIES.
   No business or commercial enterprise shall be conducted on or from any
harbor facilities except as specifically authorized and permitted by the
provisions hereof and on the conditions stated as follows.
   (A)   The holder of a valid reserved or unreserved moorage use permit may,
upon the conditions set forth herein, load and unload passengers from charter
boats on the city’s docks and may sell fish directly from commercial fishing
vessels to the public on the city’s docks.
   (B)   No fish shall be sold directly from vessels to the public on public
docks nor shall passengers be allowed to board or depart from charter vessels
unless the vessel from which the fish are being sold or passengers boarding or
departing is secured directly to the city’s docks in accordance with the
vessel’s moorage use permit.
   (C)   No business shall be conducted on or from the harbor facilities
pursuant to this section until the owner/operator of the moorage use permit for
the vessel from which the business shall be conducted has applied for and
received a city business license authorizing the type of business to be
conducted. No business license shall be issued until the applicant has provided
to the city written verification that:
      (1)   All applicants who use or employ shore-based workers which, if
injured, come within the provisions of the federal Longshore and Harbor
Workers’ Compensation Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 901 et seq., shall obtain and
maintain during such time as the workers are used or employed or for such time
as a claim may be brought, insurance for coverage under the Longshore and
Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act in an amount not less than $500,000. All such
insurance policies required under this section shall name the city as an
additional insured and shall include a provision governing notifying the city
prior to any early cancellation of the policy; and
      (2)   A city business license has been issued.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
11.99
§ 92.13 VESSEL CATEGORIES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   Establishment. Vessel categories, moorage rates, and charges for
harbor facilities and equipment shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Moorage use permit fees.
      (1)   All moorage rates (daily, monthly, and annual) shall, effective
each July 1 and thereafter, be adjusted annually to reflect inflation costs by
applying the U.S. city average consumer price index for all urban consumers
percent of change from the previous year. This annual adjustment shall not be
less than 3% or more than 5% each fiscal year.
      (2)   In addition to this annual adjustment, all moorage rates may be
revised from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Due dates for moorage use permit fees.
      (1)   Reserved and unreserved moorage use permit fees shall be paid in
advance by new permittees before a berth is occupied.
      (2)   Permittees holding a reserved or unreserved use permit will be
billed by the city on or about June 1 for a renewal period of one year starting
July 1 following, except for the second year of moorage, which shall be such
period of time as determined pursuant to §
92.11(D)(3) of this subchapter. This annual fee is due on July 1 for the annual
period for which the renewal is issued, together with any delinquent charges
owed to the city. If all charges and fees are not paid on or before July 10 (or
the next regular business day if July 10 of the particular year is a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday), such failure shall subject the permittee desiring a
renewal of a reserved or unreserved moorage use permit to a late payment charge
of 10%. Failure to pay monies by July 20 (or the next regular business day if
July 20 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday) shall result in
revocation of a permittee’s use permit, unless a petition for hardship has been
filed with the Harbor Commission pursuant to division (H) below on or prior to
July 1 (or the next regular business day if July 1 is on a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday), and in such event revocation of the permittee’s use permit
shall be stayed until the petition for hardship has been either granted or
denied.
      (3)   Applicants for a reserved or an unreserved moorage use permit shall
pay in advance for one year at the time of application. On or about 30 days
prior to the end of the first year of moorage, the city shall bill the owner/
operator for the prorated amount pursuant to §
92.11(D)(3) of this subchapter from the end of the first year through the
following June 30.
      (4)   Transient moorage use permit fees shall be paid upon registration.
      (5)   If monies due the city are not paid when due, the city may take
such enforcement or collection action as it deems appropriate against the
delinquent permittee at any time thereafter. If charges and fees are not paid
when due, such failure shall subject the permittee to a 10% late service charge
and result in revocation of the use permit.
   (D)   Electrical surcharge.
      (1)   Electrical surcharge applies to annual moorages. Each vessel
connecting to the city’s electrical service shall be metered. Charges to the
vessel owner/operator will be based on the city’s rate costs at the time of
electrical usage.
      (2)   Electrical surcharge for the moorage year shall be prepaid at the
time annual moorage is due and payable. For vessel owner/operators renewing
moorage, the prepaid amount shall be determined by the previous year’s usage.
Vessels not previously moored in the harbor will have their prepaid amount
estimated by the harbormaster.
      (3)   In the event charges based on metered usage exceed the prepaid
amount, the vessel owner/operator will be billed and required to pay additional
fees. There will be a $5 fee charged each time a billing must be sent for
electrical use.
      (4)   An annual reconciliation of electrical surcharges will be conducted
prior to the end of the moorage year. Any credit balance remaining will be
applied to the upcoming moorage year’s electrical surcharge, debit balances
will be added to the upcoming year’s estimated electrical surcharge.
      (5)   Should any vessel owner/operator terminate his or her moorage with
a remaining electrical surcharge deposit credit balance, it will be refunded.
   (E)   After hours fueling surcharge.
      (1)   In the event that a vessel owner/operator requests fuel at a time
outside of regularly scheduled work hours that would involve a call-out
(overtime) for the harbormaster or other city staff, in addition to the cost of
the fuel the vessel owner/operator shall pay an after-hours surcharge.
      (2)   The after-hours surcharge shall based upon the cost of two hours
overtime in effect at the time the after-hours fueling is requested.
   (F)   Waiting list fee.
      (1)   At the time of application for placement on the waiting list for
reserved moorage, the applicant shall pay a non-refundable fee of $2, prorated
at the rate of $3.50 per month for each month, or part of a month, to the
following July 1.
      (2)   Thereafter, each year following placement on the waiting list, in
order to maintain the right to continue to be on the waiting list for reserved
moorage, applicants shall pay a nonrefundable fee of $2 due on July 19.
   (G)   Other services; fees and charges. Other services include, but are not
limited to, vessel pump-out, vessel line secure, use of harbor boat, use of
harbor hoist, and storage. City-owned equipment shall be operated by city
personnel only. Fees include one employee. Additional staff required will be
billed at the then current hourly rate. Crabpot storage is subject to rules as
promulgated by the Public Works Director. All fees and charges are payable in
advance for scheduled services and storage. For unscheduled services, all fees
and charges are due within 30 days of original billing. If charges and fees are
not paid when due, a 10% late service charge will be added to the account.
Service Fee
Service                 Fee
Boat trailer tow        $30/month for 150 square foot (10’ x 15’) space
Boat trailer storage    $50/month or any portion of calendar month
Crabpot storage         $20/month for 100 square foot (10’ x 10’) space
Harbor boat use         $50/hour, 1-hour minimum
Hoist use               $35/hour, 1-hour minimum
Storage                 $0.50/square foot per month
Vessel pump-out service $50/hour, 1-hour minimum
Vessel secure           $50/incident, plus cost of line is provided by city
 
   (H)   Extension of time for payment due to hardship. The Harbor Commission
shall review petitions of hardship brought before the Commission by moorage use
permittees seeking an extension of time for payment of moorage use permit
charges. The Commission shall hear the petition for hardship as expeditiously
as reasonably possible. During such time as a petition for hardship has been
filed, the permittee’s use permit shall not be revoked. A permittee may file
within five business days of the Harbor Commission’s decision, a written appeal
for review of the Harbor Commission’s decision with the City Council. The City
Council shall hear the matter and determine whether or not the petition for
hardship should be granted or denied. The City Council’s decision shall be
final. A permittee may file no more than two consecutive extension petitions to
the Harbor Commission.
   (I)   Non-waiver of other remedies. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as a waiver by the city of any rights granted by this chapter, state
or federal statutes for civil action against a vessel, or person for which
moorage or other charges have been incurred and not paid.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012; Res. 505-21, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 92.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Manner of enforcement. This chapter may be enforced in the manner
provided by
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances, or as such ordinance may be hereafter
amended, providing for general enforcement of ordinances of the city. Upon
determination that a violation of this chapter exists, the city shall provide a
written notice by personal delivery, or by placing in the U.S. mail a letter to
the person in violation at the last known address provided to the city. If
mailed, the notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested.
The notice will include a statement that the violation must be corrected within
15 calendar days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Removing or securing vessels or property. The city may, at its sole
option, employ the following procedures in cases of abandonment; or when an
owner/operator fails to maintain their vessel in a manner sufficient to not be
hazardous; or when an owner/operator fails to obtain or maintain a valid use
permit by failure to register with the city, pay moorage, storage, or electric
fees causing them to be delinquent, or provide proof of insurance as required
by §
92.11(I) of this subchapter.
      (1)   At least 30 calendar days prior to securing or removal of a vessel
or personal property, the city shall provide notice to the owner/operator of
the vessel or personal property setting forth the statement of violation and
that the city may seize the vessel and other property if the violation is not
corrected within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice. The notice shall
be delivered by posting the notice on the vessel or other personal property,
and by personal delivery to the owner/operator, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address provided to the city by the owner/
operator. In the case of abandoned vessels or property, or where no address was
furnished by the owner/operator, the city is not required to give the notice
prior to securing or removing the vessel or personal property.
      (2)   (a)   The city may take reasonable measures including, but not
limited to, the use of chains, ropes, and locks, removal from the water, or
removal to storage areas to secure vessels and other personal property so that
the same are in the possession and control of the city. At the time of securing
a vessel or other personal property, an authorized city employee shall attach
to such vessel or property a notice which shall contain the following
information:
            1.   The date and time the notice was attached;
            2.   A statement that if the account, together with all expenses
incurred in securing the vessel and the city’s collection costs, is not paid in
full and/or any ordinance violation is not resolved within 60 days of the date
of the notice, the vessel or personal property may be sold at public auction
with proceeds applied to satisfy the city charges and costs; and
            3.   The address and telephone number where additional information
may be obtained concerning release of the vessel or personal property.
         (b)   Notice of securing a vessel or personal property shall be sent
to the owner/operator by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the last
known address provided to the city by the owner/operator.
      (3)   The owner/operator of a vessel or personal property secured by the
city may regain possession as follows:
         (a)   Establishing good cause for any ordinance violation where that
is the issue;
         (b)   Correcting and resolving the violation to the satisfaction of
the city; or
         (c)   Making payment to the city of all city charges.
      (4)   (a)   If a vessel or other personal property has been secured and
the owner/operator does not regain possession by the above methods, the city
may, at its sole option, elect to sell the vessel or personal property at
public sale.
         (b)   For all sales of vessels and other personal property under this
section, the city shall proceed with foreclosure and sale in the manner
provided by O.R.S. 87.152 to 87.212 or 783.010 to 783.170. The city may bid all
or part of charges and expenses at the sale and may become a purchaser at the
sale. Sale proceeds shall first be applied to the costs of sale, including
attorney’s fees, then to discharge of moorage and other charges owed by the
owner/operator, and the balance, if any, shall be paid as provided by state
statute.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-18-2012)
FEES, RATES, AND CHARGES
§ 92.25 MOORAGE FEES.
   (A)   Generally.
Vessel Size (Length) Annual Monthly (30 Consecutive Days) Daily
Vessel Size (Length) Annual Monthly (30 Consecutive Days) Daily
25’ and under      $835   $281                          $31
26’                $867   $288                          $31
27’                $903   $299                          $31
28’                $935   $311                          $31
29’                $970   $323                          $31
30’                $1,002 $337                          $31
31’                $1,037 $344                          $31
32’                $1,071 $357                          $31
33’                $1,103 $369                          $31
34’                $1,137 $381                          $31
35’                $1,170 $390                          $31
36’                $1,204 $400                          $31
37’                $1,238 $413                          $31
38’                $1,271 $422                          $31
39’                $1,304 $436                          $31
40’                $1,338 $447                          $31
41’                $1,371 $457                          $31
42’                $1,407 $468                          $31
43’                $1,437 $475                          $31
44’                $1,467 $490                          $31
45’                $1,505 $503                          $31
46’                $1,540 $511                          $46
47’                $1,573 $524                          $46
48’                $1,605 $535                          $46
49’                $1,639 $546                          $46
50’                $1,673 $558                          $46
51’                $1,705 $567                          $46
52’                $1,739 $578                          $46
Any vessel in excess of 52 feet will pay $22 per each additional foot or
portion thereof per year for annual moorage. Monthly moorage fees shall be
at the rate of one-third of the applicable annual moorage fee; daily moorage
fees shall be $46 per day.
 
   (B)   Non-motorized, non-sail vessels.
Vessel Size (Length) Annual Monthly (30 Consecutive Days) Daily
Vessel Size (Length) Annual Monthly (30 Consecutive Days) Daily
8’                 $127   $42                           $31
9’                 $149   $48                           $31
10’                $163   $52                           $31
11’                $178   $56                           $31
12’                $194   $66                           $31
13’                $211   $71                           $31
14’                $228   $76                           $31
15’                $241   $80                           $31
16’                $260   $88                           $31
17’                $276   $93                           $31
18’                $293   $97                           $31
19’                $309   $104                          $31
20’                $327   $109                          $31
21’                $339   $113                          $31
22’                $347   $118                          $31
23’                $361   $124                          $31
24’                $388   $127                          $31
(Res. 505-21, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 92.26 BILLING FOR ELECTRICAL USE BY MOORED VESSELS.
   (A)   The city will monthly bill its annual moorage holders for their
monthly share of the electrical bill, based on monthly usage per moorage holder
according to the slips meter reads.
   (B)   The kWh rate established for account 218454008 “port docks” monthly
usage is $0.10 cents per kWh effective immediately and to be reviewed annually.
(Res. 512-21, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 92.27 BASE FUEL RATES.
   The base fuel rate for the harbor fueling facility is $5.259 per gallon for
unleaded and $3.591 per gallon for diesel.
(Res. 510-21, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 92.28 ANNUAL PASS FOR LAUNCHPAD, FISHING CLEANING STATION, AND PARKING.
   The continued use of the launching facility will require either an annual
pass sticker or participation in the daily launch fee. The daily motorized boat
launch fee shall be $10, non-motorized boats $5, or the annual sticker is made
available at the city hall for $100 per year for unlimited use, made renewable
each July 1. These adjustments to the use of harbor facilities shall go into
effect on July 1, 2021.
(Res. 506-21, passed 5-4-2021)
CHAPTER 93: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Findings
   
93.03   Scope
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   General prohibition
   
93.06   Noises prohibited
   
93.07   Exemptions
   
93.08   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, and quiet of the citizens of the city through the
reduction, control, and prevention of loud and raucous noise, or any noise
which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace, or safety; or causes public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 93.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds the following.
   (A)   Loud and raucous noise degrades the environment of the city to a
degree that:
      (1)   Is harmful to the health, welfare, and safety of its inhabitants
and visitors;
      (2)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property;
      (3)   Interferes with the well being, tranquility, and privacy of the
home; and
      (4)   Both causes and aggravates health problems.
   (B)   Both the effective control and the elimination of loud and raucous
noise are essential to the health and welfare of the city’s inhabitants and
visitors, and to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life, including
recreation, work, and communication.
   (C)   The use of sound amplification equipment creates loud and raucous
noise that may, in a particular manner and at a particular time and place,
substantially and unreasonably invade the privacy, peace, and freedom of
inhabitants of, and visitors to, the city.
   (D)   Certain short-term easing of noise restrictions is essential to allow
the construction and maintenance of structures, infrastructure, and other
elements necessary for the physical and commercial vitality of the city.
   (E)   The obligation to draft regulations that affect speech in a content-
neutral fashion is of paramount importance to protect the freedom of expression
guaranteed by Article I, § 8 of the Oregon Constitution and the First Amendment
of the United States Constitution. This chapter enacts narrowly drawn, content-
neutral regulations that are to be interpreted as such so as not to infringe
upon constitutionally protected rights.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 93.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to the control of all sound originating within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
   NOISE SENSITIVE AREA. Includes, but is not limited to, real property
normally used for sleeping, or normally used as a school, church, hospital, or
public library.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be detected by a reasonable person of
ordinary sensitivities using his or her unaided hearing faculties.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures on real property, owned by a
government entity, and normally accessible to the public, including but not
limited to parks and other recreational areas.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any real property which contains a structure or building
in which one or more persons reside, provided that the structure or building is
properly zoned, or is legally nonconforming, for residential use in accordance
with the terms and maps of the city’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 93.05 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued:
      (1)   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise;
      (2)   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity, within the jurisdictional limits of the city; or
      (3)   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in
time or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood from which said noises emanate, or as to unreasonably interfere
with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or
customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business.
   (B)   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud and
raucous include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
      (2)   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      (3)   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
      (4)   The duration of the sound; and
      (5)   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are declared to be per se violations of this chapter.
This enumeration does not constitute an exclusive list.
   (A)   Unreasonable noises. The unreasonable making of, or knowingly and
unreasonably permitting to be made, any unreasonably loud, boisterous, or
unusual noise, disturbance, commotion, or vibration in any boarding facility,
dwelling, place of business, or other structure, or upon any public street,
park, or other place or building. The ordinary and usual sounds, noises,
commotion, or vibration incidental to the operation of these places when
conducted in accordance with the usual standards of practice and in a manner
which will not unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent
residences or which will not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent
places of business are exempted from this provision.
   (B)   Vehicle horns, signaling devices, and similar devices. The sounding of
any horn, signaling device, or other similar device, on any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle on any right-of-way or in any public space of the
city, for more than ten consecutive seconds. The sounding of any horn,
signaling device, or other similar device, as a danger warning is exempt from
this prohibition.
   (C)   Non-emergency signaling devices. Sounding or permitting sounding any
amplified signal from any bell, chime, siren, whistle, or similar device,
intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, from any place for more than ten
consecutive seconds in any hourly period. The reasonable sounding of such
devices by houses of religious worship, ice cream trucks, seasonal contribution
solicitors, or by the city for traffic-control purposes are exempt from the
operation of this provision.
   (D)   Emergency signaling devices. The intentional sounding or permitting
the sounding outdoors of any emergency signaling device including fire,
burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar emergency signaling
device, except in an emergency or except as provided in divisions (D)(1) and
(D)(2) below.
      (1)   Testing of an emergency signaling device shall occur between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time. In
no case shall such test time exceed five minutes. Testing of the emergency
signaling system shall not occur more than once in each calendar month.
      (2)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, shall terminate within 15 minutes of
activation unless an emergency exists. If a false or accidental activation of
an alarm occurs more than twice in a calendar month, the owner or person
responsible for the alarm shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Radios, televisions, boomboxes, phonographs, stereos, musical
instruments, and similar devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
boombox, stereo, musical instrument, or similar device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily
listening to the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of neighbors and passers-by, or is plainly audible at a distance of 100
feet from any person in a commercial, industrial area, or public space. The use
or operation of a radio, television, boombox, stereo, musical instrument, or
similar device that produces or reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly
audible to any person other than the player(s) or operator(s) of the device,
and those who are voluntarily listening to the sound, and unreasonably disturbs
the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighbors in residential or noise sensitive
areas, including multi-family or single-family dwellings.
   (F)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems, and similar devices.
The unreasonably loud and raucous use or operation of a loudspeaker, amplifier,
public address system, or other device for producing or reproducing sound
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 11:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays in the following areas:
      (1)   Within or adjacent to residential or noise-sensitive areas; or
      (2)   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the real
property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
unreasonably loud and raucous.
   (G)   Yelling, shouting, and similar activities. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing in residential or noise sensitive areas or in public
places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place
so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of reasonable
persons of ordinary sensitivities. This section is to be applied only to those
situations where the disturbance is not a result of the content of the
communication but due to the volume, duration, location, timing or other
factors not based on content.
   (H)   Animals and birds. Unreasonably loud and raucous noise emitted by an
animal or bird for which a person is responsible. A person is responsible for
an animal if the person owns, controls, or otherwise cares for the animal or
bird.
   (I)   Loading or unloading merchandise, materials, and equipment. The
creation of unreasonably loud, raucous, and excessive noise in connection with
the loading or unloading of any vehicle at a place of business or residence.
   (J)   Construction or repair of buildings; excavation of streets and
highways. The construction, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building
or the excavation of streets and highways other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays. In cases of emergency, construction or repair
noises are exempt from this provision. In non-emergency situations, the city
may issue a permit, upon application, if the city determines that the public
health and safety, as affected by loud and raucous noise caused by construction
or repair of buildings or excavation of streets and highways between the hours
of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will not be impaired, and if the city further
determines that loss or inconvenience would otherwise result. The permit shall
grant permission in non-emergency cases for a period of not more than three
days. The permit may be renewed once for a period of three days or less.
   (K)   Noise sensitive areas; schools, courts, churches, hospitals, and
similar institutions. The creation of any unreasonably loud and raucous noise
adjacent to any noise sensitive area while it is in use, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings of the institution or which disturbs the persons
in these institutions; provided that conspicuous signs delineating the
boundaries of the noise sensitive area are displayed in the streets surrounding
the noise sensitive area.
   (L)   Blowers and similar devices. In residential or noise sensitive areas,
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the operation of any noise-
creating blower, power fan, or any internal combustion engine, the operation of
which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, provided
that the noise is unreasonably loud and raucous and can be heard across the
property line of the property from which it emanates.
   (M)   Commercial establishments adjacent to residential property.
Unreasonably loud and raucous noise from the premises of any commercial
establishment, including any outdoor area which is part of or under the control
of the establishment, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. which is
plainly audible within any building used as a residence and located on a
residential property.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out in §
93.06 of this chapter and are in addition to the exemptions specifically set
forth in §
93.06 of this chapter:
   (A)   Motor vehicles on traffic ways of the city, provided that the
prohibition of §
93.06(B) of this chapter continues to apply;
   (B)   Repairs of utility structures which pose a clear and immediate danger
to life, health, or significant loss of property;
   (C)   Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, police
activity, or imminent danger, provided that the prohibition contained in §
93.06(D) of this chapter continues to apply;
   (D)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work;
   (E)   Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets, or highways by or on
behalf of the city, the state, or the federal government, between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it
impractical to perform the work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.;
   (F)   Reasonable activities conducted on public playgrounds and public or
private school grounds, which are conducted in accordance with the manner in
which such spaces are generally used, including but not limited to, school
athletic and school entertainment events; and
   (G)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows, and sporting events, and
other similar outdoor events, provided that a permit has been obtained from the
appropriate permitting authority.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 93.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The following individuals shall enforce this chapter: the city enforcement
officer, as designated by the City Council, or his or her designee, will have
primary responsibility for the enforcement of the noise regulations contained
in this chapter. Enforcement of this chapter shall be conducted pursuant to
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances and complaint policies in effect at the
time. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city enforcement officer from
obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice, or education.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of a provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine not
to exceed $500.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 294, passed 12-18-2012)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Water or Other Liquid Substances on Right-of-Way or Street
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Nuisance
   
94.03   Initial action
   
94.04   Notice; hearing
   
94.05   Hearing
   
94.06   Notice of Council orders
   
94.07   Remedy of nuisance by city
   
94.08   Costs of publication, attorneys’ fees, and assessment
   
94.09   Suit for abatement
   
94.10   Attorneys’ fees and court costs
   
94.11   Non-exclusive provision
Deposit or Storage of Garbage, Refuse, Rubbish, or Junk
   
94.25   Definitions
   
94.26   Disposal
   
94.27   Property maintenance
   
94.28   Nuisance declared
   
94.29   Procedures
 
   
94.99   Penalty
WATER OR OTHER LIQUID SUBSTANCES ON RIGHT-OF-WAY OR STREET
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. Includes any ramp, pathway, or other means of ingress or egress to
the owner’s property from a roadway.
   OWNER. A vendee under a recorded land contract, or if there is no such
contract, the holder of the record title, which vendee or holder has a present
interest equal to or greater than a life estate.
   ROADWAY. Includes public right-of-ways and dedicated streets.
   WATER. Includes water and/or other liquid substances.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.02 NUISANCE.
   It shall be a public nuisance for an owner to permit or suffer water from
any channel, drainage ditch, or similar method of collected flow along a
roadway abutting the owner’s property to be diverted, obstructed, or altered by
way of a driveway, where as a result water flows, collects, or traverses upon a
roadway and creates a hazard or inconvenience to the orderly movement of
persons or traffic upon the roadway, or is likely to cause or has caused damage
to the roadway.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 INITIAL ACTION.
   Whenever the Mayor, Street Commissioner, Fire Chief, or any City Councilor
shall be of the opinion that there is probable cause to believe that a nuisance
as defined above exists within the city, it shall be his or her duty to report
the same to the Council. Thereupon, the Council shall, within a reasonable
time, fix a time and place for a public hearing thereon.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.04 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall give notice by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, or personal service, to the owner of the property. It
shall be deemed noticed to the owner or owners where such notice is given to
the person or delivered by mail to the address listed by the county tax office
for mailing of the tax statement.
      (1)   The notice shall state, in general terms, that a hearing will be
held by the City Council concerning the suspected nuisance of the property, and
a time and place thereof.
      (2)   A copy of this notice shall also be posted on the ten days’ notice
of this hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or by posting said notice in three public places in the city.
      (3)   If notice is published or posted as provided herein, no
irregularity or failure to mail notice to an owner of record shall invalidate
the proceedings.
   (B)   The notices to be published, posted, and mailed giving notice of any
hearing required shall be in substantially the following form:
   Legal Notice
   To:          
            (Record Owner(s))
   Property:      
            Common Description or
            Legal Description
You are hereby notified that a driveway to the premises above-mentioned have
been reported to the City Council as diverting, obstructing, or altering the
collected flow of water in a channel, drainage ditch, or similar means of
collected flow, and as a result water flows, collects, or traverses upon a
roadway and creates a hazard or inconvenience to the orderly movement of
persons or traffic upon the roadway, or is likely to cause or has caused damage
to the roadway.
The Council has scheduled a public hearing on the        day of
                     20    , at           , to consider if a nuisance exists.
If the Council determines that the property is creating, permitting, or
suffering a nuisance to occur as aforesaid, it may order a culvert installed,
or such other appropriate action as is deemed appropriate. In that event, all
costs incurred by the city will be borne by the owner.
You have a right to appear and be heard at this hearing.
   City Recorder
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.05 HEARING.
   (A)   At such time and place, or at such other time or place as the Council
may adjourn to, the hearing shall be held, and the Council shall determine by
resolution whether or not a nuisance exists and, if a nuisance is found,
whether or not the property causes or permits said nuisance to occur. The
Council may, as part of the hearing, inspect the property. The observations
made at such inspection may be considered by the Council.
   (B)   At the hearing, an owner or other person having interest in the
property shall have a right to be heard if such owner or person requests.
   (C)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Council shall have the authority
to order a culvert be laid under the driveway at or near the property line
abutting the roadway, or such other appropriate action as is deemed necessary
to alleviate the nuisance.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.06 NOTICE OF COUNCIL ORDERS.
   Five days’ notice of findings and order by the Council shall be given to the
owner or owners of the property in the same manner as previously provided for
in §
94.04 of this subchapter. Notice may be given by posting said notice on the
premises. If the Council orders be not obeyed within the time specified by the
order (being not less than five days), the Council shall have the power and
duty to take such action as is necessary to remove and remedy the nuisance.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.07 REMEDY OF NUISANCE BY CITY.
   In the event that the Council orders are not obeyed, the Council must
specify with convenient certainty the work to be done and shall file the
statement thereof with the City Recorder. The City Recorder shall advertise for
bids or quotes for the doing of the work in the manner provided for by state
public contracting laws, rules, and regulations. Bids and/or quotes shall be
received, opened, and the contract let.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.08 COSTS OF PUBLICATION, ATTORNEYS’ FEES, AND ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The owner(s) of any property who fails to obey the Council’s orders
made in conformance of §
94.04 of this subchapter shall thereafter be liable for all costs incurred by
the city, including attorneys’ fees and costs of publication incurred by the
city in enforcing its orders.
   (B)   The Council shall ascertain and determine the probable cost of the
work, the attorneys’ fees, and other costs incurred and shall assess the same
against the property. The assessment shall be declared by resolution and it
shall be entered in the docket of city liens and thereafter become a lien
against the property.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.09 SUIT FOR ABATEMENT.
   The Council may, as an alternative to the remedy provided in §
94.07 of this subchapter, bring suit for abatement of a nuisance or seek other
equitable relief in the circuit court of the county.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.10 ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COURT COSTS.
   In the event suit or action is required to enforce the Council’s orders, the
owner(s) of the property shall be required to pay such sum as the court may
adjudge reasonable as attorney fees to be allowed the city in said suit or
action, and if an appeal is taken from any judgment or decree of the trial
court, the owner(s) of the property shall further be required to pay such sum
as the appellate court shall adjudge reasonable as attorneys’ fees upon such
appeal. In all cases, the owner(s) of the property shall be required to pay in
addition to attorneys’ fees, other costs and disbursements of the city incurred
in the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 94.11 NON-EXCLUSIVE PROVISION.
   The rights and remedies granted to the city herein are in addition to and
not a limitation upon the provisions of any of the ordinances of the city which
now or may hereafter be in full force and effect.
(Ord. 62, passed 1-7-1980)
DEPOSIT OR STORAGE OF GARBAGE, REFUSE, RUBBISH, OR JUNK
§ 94.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The solid waste products of burning, including any unburned residue
of the material being burned. Burning or attempting to burn a material
otherwise having another definition hereunder, such as garbage, refuse,
rubbish, or junk, shall not preclude the same from also being subject to such
other classification.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including vegetable wastes, animal offal,
and carcasses of dead animals, but excluding by-products of fish processing
which are disposed of pursuant to a permit for the disposal thereof in a manner
other than as herein provided or are otherwise disposed of in a clean and
sanitary manner not otherwise contrary to law.
   JUNK. Any item which has been abandoned or is otherwise no longer used or
usable, including but not limited to appliances, such as stoves, refrigerators,
dishwashers, televisions, washers and dryers, automobiles outside of an
enclosed structure and in an inoperable condition for a period of 72 hours or
more, parts of automobiles, mechanical parts and devices, and items of a
similar nature. Any such items shall not be considered JUNK hereunder, however,
if stored within an enclosed structure.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible waste materials, which are abandoned,
discarded, or otherwise no longer used or no longer usable, including but not
limited to rags, paper, cartons, boxes, bottles, cans, wood (except firewood
which has been cut and stacked), lumber (except lumber stored during the course
of construction pursuant to a valid and current building permit), brush, limbs,
tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, bedding, metals, dirt, glass,
crockery, plastic, construction materials, oil, paint, empty containers,
mechanical parts, or other similar materials or waste or scrap.
(Ord. 164, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 94.26 DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, store, bury, deposit, or
permit to be deposited in any manner upon public or private property within the
city, any ashes, garbage, rubbish, or junk, or other objectionable waste,
except in a suitable container while awaiting disposal, or pursuant to other
practice or procedure expressly authorized by statute or ordinance. While so
stored, such waste shall be placed and retained within a suitable watertight
container with a tight-fitting lid, which shall be kept clean and continuously
closed except when refuse is being placed into or removed therefrom.
(Ord. 164, passed 7-1-1991) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   The owner and the occupant of any real property, improved or unimproved,
shall remove and keep removed therefrom, all dead bushes, dead trees, stumps,
junk, dead organic matter, garbage, rubbish, rat harborages, or stagnant water.
(Ord. 164, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 94.28 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All conditions in violation of this subchapter shall constitute a nuisance.
Summary abatement of such nuisances is hereby authorized whenever the City
Council shall reasonably believe a health hazard to exist, which procedure
shall be in addition to and cumulative with the procedures of §
94.29 of this subchapter. Following summary abatement, the city shall have a
claim against the owners and occupants, jointly and severally, for the costs of
such abatement and a lien for such costs, enforceable as provided in §
94.29 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 164, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 94.29 PROCEDURES.
   Any condition in violation of this subchapter may be abated in the same
manner as provided for under the abatement of building nuisances, §§
151.25 through
151.34 of this code of ordinances, as though the existence of such condition
were to constitute a building determined by the Building Official to be
dangerous or a nuisance. The Building Official, Health Officer, City
Supervisor, or Fire Chief shall have the same authority to act in the
administration of this subchapter as provided in §§
151.25 through
151.34 of this code of ordinances. All remedies provided hereunder shall be
cumulative, each with the other and with any remedy existing by force and
effect of law, including but not limited to the right to obtain a civil
injunction against violations hereof.
(Ord. 164, passed 7-1-1991)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.11, or who shall permit any condition to exist in violation of this chapter,
or whose duty it is to correct such condition and who fails to do so, shall be
guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. The
imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue, and all such persons are required to correct or remedy
such violations. The continuation of a prohibited activity shall constitute a
separate and subsequent violation for each day that such activity shall
continue. Failure to correct a violation within a reasonable time shall
constitute a separate and subsequent violation hereof. Except as otherwise
specified, or except as otherwise may be established by clear and convincing
evidence, a period of ten days is deemed to be reasonable time for the
correction of any violation.
(Ord. 164, passed 7-1-1991)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Cuts in Streets
   
95.001   Prohibited action
   
95.002   Application
   
95.003   Security
   
95.004   Application fees
   
95.005   Surface replacement
   
95.006   Permits
   
95.007   Conduct of work
   
95.008   Adherence to and exhibition of permits
   
95.009   Underground utilities
   
95.010   Vehicular and pedestrian traffic
   
95.011   Barricades and safety measures
   
95.012   Liability for accidents
   
95.013   Notice of completion of work
   
95.014   Security deposit form
   
95.015   Repairs
   
95.016   Defective work
   
95.017   Exceptions
   
95.018   Regulating excavation or alterations
Installation of Culverts
   
95.030   Generally
   
95.031   Waiver by Superintendent of Municipal Services
   
95.032   Fees
Public Rights-of-Way
   
95.045   Definitions
   
95.046   Jurisdiction
   
95.047   Scope of regulatory control
   
95.048   City permission requirement
   
95.049   Obligations of the city
   
95.050   Placement and maintenance of mailboxes
Bicycles, Skateboards, and Rollerskates on Streets and Sidewalks
   
95.065   Definitions
   
95.066   Due care
   
95.067   Operation of bicycles, skateboards, and rollerskates
   
95.068   Impoundment
Construction of Poles, Cables, Noncommercial Signs, and Miscellaneous
Operations
   
95.080   Permits
   
95.081   Allocation of cots
   
95.082   Liability and control
   
95.083   Insurance and bond
   
95.084   Construction and location details
   
95.085   Removal, relocation, or repair
   
95.086   Maintenance and operation
   
95.087   Other agencies
   
95.088   Effective period of permit
   
95.089   Public Works Director issuance of permits
   
95.090   Appeals
   
95.091   Additional rules and regulations
 
   
95.999   Penalty
CUTS IN STREETS
§ 95.001 PROHIBITED ACTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation; or any employee,
agent, or representative of any such person, firm, or corporation to cut,
break, dig up, damage in any manner, alter, change, undermine, excavate, or
tunnel under any public street or alley; obstruct the reasonable use of such
street or alley by the public or the regular flow of vehicular or pedestrian
travel over and upon such street or alley without first making application to
the City Council, or its duly appointed and authorized official, depositing
security, and obtaining a permit therefor as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.002 APPLICATION.
   Applications for said permits shall be in the form prescribed by the City
Council, or its duly authorized representative thereof, and shall contain the
following:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The date of the application;
   (C)   The name of the street or alley to be cut or tunneled under or
altered;
   (D)   The nature of the street surface or pavement involved;
   (E)   The purpose of the work;
   (F)   The size and nature of the cut or excavation;
   (G)   The number of days required to complete the work;
   (H)   An agreement to deposit such security as required by the city and this
subchapter;
   (I)   Agreement to comply with the provisions of this subchapter and with
the specifications of the City Council, or duly authorized agent thereof,
pertaining to the conduct of the work;
   (J)   Agreement to save the city and its employees harmless against any
injury or damage that may result from the acts of the applicant, and to file a
report of the work done within 48 hours of its completion; and
   (K)   Applications shall also contain or be accompanied by such maps, plans,
information, and stipulations as may be required by the City Council, or its
duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.003 SECURITY.
   (A)   Before the issuance of any permit, the applicant shall file a security
deposit with the City Recorder in the form of either cash or certified checks
payable to the city or security bond on a form acceptable to the city, as a
guarantee and pledge to the city by said applicant against any and all loss,
damage, or expenses that may thereafter arise or be caused by said applicant in
the accomplishment of the purpose or purposes contained in said application as
made by said applicant, and to ensure the performance of the terms and
conditions of said permit and this subchapter.
   (B)   The security deposit whether in form of cash, certified checks, or
bond shall be in an amount equal to twice the estimated replacement value of
the surface to be cut, together with the cost of re-excavation and re-filling
with proper material, if necessary, as determined by the City Council, or its
duly authorized agent. The minimum amount is hereby established by the City
Council by resolution, however the city may waive the security deposit
requirement in the case of unimproved streets if it appears the public interest
will be adequately protected otherwise.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation may in lieu of filing separate
security deposits for each project, file a surety bond in the amount of $2,500
to be valid for one year ensuring the faithful performance of the terms and
conditions of all street permits issued during the period of the bond and this
subchapter.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.004 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the listed security deposits in §
95.003 of this subchapter, the following additional sums will be required to be
deposited with the application before the issuance of any permits.
 
Trench Width                            Deposit Required per Lineal Foot of Cut
                                        Lying Within the Street Right-of-Way
1.5 feet or more but less than 2.0 feet As set by City Council resolution
2.0 feet or more but less than 2.5 feet As set by City Council resolution
2.5 feet or more but less than 3.0 feet As set by City Council resolution
3.0 feet                                As set by City Council resolution
 
   (B)   For all trench widths exceeding three feet in width and exceeding 300
feet in length, before the street cut permit can be issued, it shall be first
approved by the City Council in session. The above may be waived in case of an
emergency which endangers the public health, safety, or sanitation.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.005 SURFACE REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   All portions of the cut which lie within the street right-of-way or
other actual traveled portion of the street as designated by the City Council
or its duly authorized agent shall be backfilled with wetted sand or rock and
shall be tamped to achieve uniform compaction. On streets having asphaltic
paved and/or impregnated surfaces, a minimum of four inches of compacted hot
mix asphaltic concrete shall be placed in the upper portions of the pavement
cut and be rolled and/or tamped to the grade of the surrounding pavement. The
same standards shall be applied to the sidewalks; except when the sidewalk is
composed of poured concrete, the sidewalk, where cut, shall be replaced with
concrete.
   (B)   On graveled and unsurfaced streets, and on the shoulders of paved
streets, the applicant shall place a minimum of six inches of compacted crushed
rock having a granualtion of three-fourths minus, which shall be rolled and/or
tamped to the grade of the surrounding surface. All backfilling and resurfacing
shall be subject to inspection and approval. The permittee shall pay to the
city an inspection fee relating to the inspections in an amount for the first
hour as set by a resolution by the City Council, plus an amount as set by
resolution for each hour thereafter.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.006 PERMITS.
   If the City Council or its duly authorized agent is satisfied that the
excavation, cut, or tunnel is feasible and proper that the said application has
been made in due form, and that adequate security has been filed as required by
the provisions of this subchapter, they shall issue a permit which shall
designate: the name and address of the person to whom the permit is granted;
the date of the issuance of the permit; the street or streets to be cut or
tunneled under, the nature of the street surface, or pavement involved; the
purpose of the work; the size and nature of the cut or excavation; the
estimated cost of restoration; the nature and amount of security deposited; the
time within which the work is to be completed and such other restrictions as
may be deemed necessary or proper by the city for the safety of the public and
the protection of public interests.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.007 CONDUCT OF WORK.
   All work under said permits shall be done in conformity with the provisions
of this subchapter, the terms of said applications and permits, and subject to
the approval of the City Council or its duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.008 ADHERENCE TO AND EXHIBITION OF PERMITS.
   No work shall be undertaken other than that specified in the application and
permit for the particular cut or excavation. Upon demand of the City Council or
its agents, said permits shall be produced at the place where the work is in
progress; or such work shall be stopped until said permit is produced.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.009 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   The permittee shall inform himself or herself as to the existence and
location of all underground utilities and protect the same against damage. The
permittee shall be responsible for any damage done to any public or private
property by reason of the breaking of any water pipes, sewers, gas pipes,
electric conduits, or other utility facilities.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.010 VEHICULAR AND PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that, during
the performance of the excavation work, that traffic conditions as near normal
as possible is maintained at all times so as to cause as little inconvenience
as possible to the occupants of the abutting property and to the general
public.
   (B)   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the permit and shall
promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original condition,
or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the street or travel thereon more
than is reasonably necessary.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.011 BARRICADES AND SAFETY MEASURES.
   Whenever any person, firm, or corporation shall, under authority of this
subchapter or otherwise, place any obstruction in any street or alley or make
any excavation therein for any purpose whatsoever, it shall be the duty of such
person or corporation to keep such obstruction or excavation properly
safeguarded by substantial barricades and to display lighted red lanterns or
other lights or flares from dusk until daylight in conformity with such
regulations as may be specified by the City Council or its duly authorized
agent. Whenever, in the opinion of the Council or its agent, the public safety
is so seriously endangered by said cuts or excavations as to require constant
supervision from dusk until daylight to ensure that all barricades are in
proper condition, that all warning lights are burning, and that traffic is
properly routed around such barricades, the person to whom the permit for the
work has been granted shall be responsible for furnishing a night watchperson
for that purpose.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.012 LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS.
   Every person or corporation having occasion to place any obstruction in any
street or alley or to make any excavation therein under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be responsible to any person for any injury by reason of the
presence of such obstruction or excavation in the public highways; and also
shall be liable to the city, in the event that the city shall be held
responsible for any accident claims or otherwise arising out of the presence of
any such obstruction or excavation in said public streets, and shall save the
city harmless from any and all liability.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.013 NOTICE OF COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Within 48 hours of the completion of said cuts or excavations, the person to
whom the permit to do such work has been issued, shall report to the City
Recorder stating that such work has been completed, and giving such other
information as may be required by said city recorder.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.014 SECURITY DEPOSIT RETURN.
   (A)   All deposits made by the applicants shall be retained by the city
until the City Council, or its agent, gives approval of the replacement. The
City Council, or its agent, shall within 45 days of the completion date stated
on the permit, and any extension thereof, if an extension be granted, either
approve or reject the replacement made by the permittee. If the replacement is
approved, the money on deposit shall be returned to the permittee.
      (1)   If the replacement is rejected, the permittee shall be informed in
writing of such rejection and must, within 30 days of such notification,
correct the replacement to the standards of this subchapter as applied by the
Council or its agent.
      (2)   If permittee fails to make the necessary corrections, his or her
deposit will be retained by the city and the city will proceed to make the
necessary correction.
   (B)   Whenever, in the opinion of the City Council, or its duly authorized
agent, it would be in the best interest of the city for the city itself to
replace or repair the street surface or pavement cut, such work shall be done
by the city; and the cost of such work shall be either charged to the person to
whom the permit for said cut or excavation has been granted or deducted from
the security deposit deposited by him or her with the City Recorder.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.015 REPAIRS.
   For a period of 12 months following the completion of the work and
restoration of a street or sidewalk, the person or corporation who opened the
street shall be responsible for the condition of the fill and replacement, and
of the resurfacing. All necessary steps shall be taken to ensure that the
street remains in good condition, without settlement, at the location of said
work. Should the trench settle during this period, it is the responsibility of
the permittee to bring the street back to proper grade.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.016 DEFECTIVE WORK.
   Acceptance or approval by the city of any excavation work and the
replacement thereof and resurfacing, if any, shall not prevent the city from
asserting a claim against the permittee for incomplete or defective work, if
discovered within 12 months from the completion of the work.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.017 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed to apply to the
construction or maintenance of the streets by the city, by its employees, or by
persons operating under contract with the city for this express purpose, and
the City Council may waive the provisions hereof upon request of any other
municipality or branch of government.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977)
§ 95.018 REGULATING EXCAVATION OR ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter is hereby made applicable to the cutting, breaking,
digging up, damage in any manner, alterations, changes, undermining, excavation
to, or upon all public property within the city over which the city has
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Wherever in this subchapter the term “street’ is used, that term shall
also include not only what is commonly referred to as streets, alleys, rights-
of-way, and roads, but also all other public property within the city and over
which the city has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 81, passed 6-1-1981)
INSTALLATION OF CULVERTS
§ 95.030 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All premises on which new improvements requiring a building permit are
constructed of a value exceeding $5,000 on or after the effective date of this
subchapter shall have installed a culvert of sufficient size and in such
location at or near the property line abutting any public right-of-way or
dedicated street under any right-of-way, ramp, pathway, or other means of
ingress or egress to said premises for the purpose of permitting drainage of
water or other liquid substance by the drainage system.
   (B)   The owner shall submit tentative plans of the proposed culvert to the
city at the time of submitting an application for a building permit. The
culvert plans shall be reviewed by the city for the purpose of determining
whether or not the proposed culvert is of sufficient size, placement, and
location for the purpose of permitting drainage of water or other liquid
substance along or adjacent to the owner’s property line and consistent with
the city drainage system then in existence or consistent with its drainage
plan. At the time of submitting the culvert plans to the city for review, the
owner shall pay such culvert review deposit as set and established by the City
Council by resolution, which may be amended from time to time in such amount as
is sufficient to reimburse city for the inspection, administrative, and
engineering costs. No building permit shall be issued until such time as the
culvert plans have been reviewed and approved by the city and the culvert
review deposit has been paid in full.
   (C)   The culvert review deposit shall be paid to the City Recorder at the
time of submission of the culvert plan. The monies shall be held by the city
until such time as the culvert plan has been approved and the culvert installed
and inspected. Thereafter, the City Recorder shall refund to the owner the
deposit monies, less such amount incurred for administration, inspection, and
engineering costs.
   (D)   The owner shall cause the culvert to be constructed in such manner as
approved by the city. Failure to construct the culvert in the manner approved
by the city shall be deemed a violation of the building plans of the
improvement and give cause for the Building Official to notify the owner to
cease work on the building until such time as the culvert is constructed in
accordance with the plans approved by the city. As an additional remedy,
violation of this subchapter shall be deemed an infraction and shall be subject
to enforcement consistent with the manner for enforcement of other city
ordinances.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be responsible for the construction
and installation of said culvert, and shall be responsible for the cost
thereof. OWNER shall be defined as a vendee under a recorded land contract, or
if there is no such contract, the holder of the record title, which vendee or
holder has a present interest equal to or greater than a life estate.
(Ord. 61, passed 1-7-1980; Ord. 197, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 95.031 WAIVER BY SUPERINTENDENT OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES.
   The requirements of this subchapter may be waived by the Superintendent of
Municipal Services if, in his or her opinion, a culvert is not needed to
provide drainage along the property line of the property in question.
(Ord. 61, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 95.032 FEES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds that the fees charged under this
subchapter are for the purpose of reimbursing the city for charges incurred for
engineering as a result of development occurring on real property.
   (B)   The fees charges and imposed by this subchapter are not intended to be
a tax on property or on a property owner as a direct consequence of ownership
of property within the meaning of § 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution
or the legislation implementing that section. Even if the charges imposed
herein are viewed under § 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution as a tax
against property or against a property owner as a direct consequence of
ownership of that property, it is and incurred charge within the meaning of
that section and the statutes implementing it because:
      (1)   It allows the owner to control incurring the charge by determining
the extent of development to occur upon the property;
      (2)   It allows the owner to determine when the charge is to be incurred
by controlling when the development occurs; or
      (3)   State law and the ordinances of this city require the owner to
provide a means for water to traverse across the property if obstacles
(driveway) are placed upon the natural flow of the surface water runoff. The
provisions of this basic requirement are a routine obligation of the owner of
the effected property and are essential to the health and safety of the
community.
   (C)   A non-refundable fee to initiate the culvert plan is established by a
resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Any additional costs, including inspection and engineering costs
incurred by the city for inspection and engineering expenses to ensure that the
plans are consistent with the requirements of this subchapter and that the
culvert is built in accordance with its plan.
(Ord. 183, passed 19-18-1993; Ord. 197, passed 10-18-1993)
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 95.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Include but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements, and all
other public ways or areas including subsurface and air space over these areas.
   WITHIN THE CITY. Territory over which the city now has or acquires
jurisdiction for the exercise of its powers.
(Ord. 238, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 95.046 JURISDICTION.
   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over all public
rights-of-way within the city under the authority of the city Charter and state
law.
(Ord. 238, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 95.047 SCOPE OF REGULATORY CONTROL.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over each
public right-of-way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal
interest in the right-of-way.
   (B)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over each
public right-of-way whether the legal interest in the right-of-way was obtained
by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation,
foreclosure, or other means.
(Ord. 238, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 95.048 CITY PERMISSION REQUIREMENT.
   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights-of-way by
franchises, licenses, and permits.
(Ord. 238, passed 4-21-1997) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.049 OBLIGATIONS OF THE CITY.
   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory control over a public right-of-
way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way, and does not
obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 238, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 95.050 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Any mailbox erected on a public right-of-way or on public property
within the city shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter regarding
public rights-of-way generally.
   (B)   All mailboxes erected shall strictly comply with all regulations
regarding construction standards and physical placement promulgated from time
to time by the United States Postal Service, including amendments thereto, and
to the extent any such regulations regarding construction standards and
physical placement conflict with the provisions of this code, the regulations
shall control to the extent of conflict.
   (C)   In no case may the mailbox support or the mailbox itself be closer
than one foot to the vertical plane of the face of the curb, or, if there be no
curb, closer than one foot to the vertical plane of the traveled portion of the
roadway.
   (D)   No person shall install any mailbox at any location which interferes
in any way with the vehicular traffic, including access to driveways,
alleyways, or intersections. The mailbox shall comply with the Zoning Code as
to height, clear vision, and setbacks, if applicable.
   (E)   No mailbox shall be installed until the owner has complied with the
locate system and obtained a mailbox permit from the city; and in no case shall
any mailbox be located in a way to damage any property, including utility
lines, cables, or pipes. The installer thereof, including the owner, or any
contractor, shall be strictly liable for damage caused by installation or
maintenance of the mailbox.
   (F)   One additional receptacle for deliveries such as newspapers and
advertisements is allowed but must be installed directly underneath the
mailbox.
   (G)   The city shall have no obligation to maintain access to any mailbox
during any construction, reconstruction, or maintenance operations. It shall be
the obligation of the owner of such mailbox to ensure access to the mailbox.
   (H)   The city shall not be responsible for any damage to mailboxes
resulting from any maintenance or operations employed by the city. In no case
will the city be responsible for damage to mailboxes unless clearly the result
of negligence on the part of the city.
   (I)   The city shall have the power to order the removal of any mailbox or
support which violates the requirements of this section and results in the
revocation of the mailbox permit.
(Ord. 306, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.999
BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, AND ROLLERSKATES
ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 95.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A vehicle that is designed to be operated on the ground on wheels;
has a seat or saddle for use of the rider; is designed to travel with not more
than three wheels in contact with the ground; and is propelled exclusively by
human power.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. The streets and sidewalks within the district
bounded on the north by the north line of Lane Street, on the south by the
south line of Schoolhouse Road, on the east by the east line of Williams Street
to Highway 101, and on the west by the west line of Highway 101, all of the
downtown area, all of Bay Street, city leased parking lots, and the park area
surrounding the Painter Building or in or upon or upon any off-street motor
vehicle parking area within the district described above.
   OPERATE. To operate, tow, push, move, or otherwise propel.
   ROLLERSKATES. Wheels affixed to the shoes or boots of a person, whether as a
single boot/wheels unit or separate units strapped together.
   SHOULDER. The portion of a highway, street, or roadway, whether paved or
unpaved, contiguous to the highway, street, or roadway that is primarily for
use by pedestrians, for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency
use, and for lateral support of base and surface courses.
   SIDEWALK. The area determined as follows:
      (1)   On the side of a street, highway, or roadway which has a shoulder,
a sidewalk is that portion of the street, roadway, or highway between the
outside lateral line of the shoulder, and the adjacent property line capable of
being used by a pedestrians; and
      (2)   On the side of a highway, street, or roadway which has no shoulder,
a sidewalk is that portion of the highway between the lateral line of the
roadway upon which motor vehicles principally use the highway, street, or
roadway, and the adjacent property line capable of being used by pedestrian.
   SKATEBOARD. A vehicle propelled by either motor or human power, which
consists of two or more wheels affixed to a flat riding surface, upon which the
operator usually stands during movement, and on which the operator is not
strapped to the vehicle.
   STREET. The portion of a highway, street, roadway or other right of access
developed or used for vehicular access that is improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
(Ord. 156, passed 12-3-1990)
§ 95.066 DUE CARE.
   Every person operating a bicycle, skateboard, rollerskates, or other self-
propelled vehicle upon a street, roadway, or highway shall exercise due care in
its operation. No person shall operate such vehicles in a careless manner that
endangers or would be likely to endanger any person or property.
(Ord. 156, passed 12-3-1990) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.067 OPERATION OF BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, AND ROLLERSKATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or use rollerskates on any street, except upon
the sidewalk, except as otherwise prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall operate a skateboard upon any sidewalk.
   (C)   No person shall operate a skateboard or rollerskates within the
central business district.
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle upon a sidewalk outside of the
central business district without giving an audible warning before overtaking
and passing a pedestrian, such warning being given in sufficient time so as not
to cause unreasonable alarm to the pedestrian and permitting the operator of
the bicycle to overtake and pass the pedestrian in a safe manner.
   (E)   No person shall operate a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the central
business district, except after dismounting from the bicycle and pushing the
bicycle at a speed no greater than an ordinary walk.
   (F)   Except to the extent as prohibited or restricted by the terms of this
subchapter or other applicable city ordinance, no person shall operate a
bicycle in a manner contrary to the Oregon Vehicle Code, O.R.S. Chapter 814.
   (G)   No parent or guardian shall knowingly permit or suffer the parent or
guardian’s minor child to operate a bicycle, skateboard, or roller-skates and
the like contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 156, passed 12-3-1990; Ord. 258, passed 2-19-2002) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.068 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty or fine provided in this subchapter,
any rollerskates, skateboards, or bicycles or other similar devices used to
violate this subchapter by a person previously found to have violated this
subchapter within a preceding one-year period of time shall be impounded by the
city’s enforcement officer and held until released by order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In addition to any other fine or penalty, the court may order that any
rollerskates, skateboards, or bicycles and the like used to violate this
subchapter may be impounded and held by the city for a period not to exceed 90
days.
(Ord. 156, passed 12-3-1990)
CONSTRUCTION OF POLES, CABLES, NONCOMMERCIAL
SIGNS, AND MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS
§ 95.080 PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person seeking to use or who desires to change, expand, or repair
an existing use of a city street right-of-way for a pole line, buried cable,
pipe line, sign, miscellaneous facility, or miscellaneous operation shall apply
for and obtain a permit from the city before commencing any construction or
activity on a city street right-of-way.
   (B)   All permits shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter and
any special provision imposed by the city. In the case of conflict between the
general provisions of this chapter and special provisions in the permit, the
special provisions shall control.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.081 ALLOCATION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The entire cost of installing, maintaining, repairing, operating, or
using the pole line, buried cable, pipe line, sign, or miscellaneous facility,
or performing miscellaneous operations, and of any other expense incident to
the facilities or operations authorized by the permit shall be paid by the
applicant.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall reimburse the city for any reasonable and
necessary expenses that the city may incur in connection with the facilities or
operations authorized by the permit.
      (2)   The reimbursement of the city shall be made by the applicant within
ten days after receiving a statement from the Public Works Director or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.082 LIABILITY AND CONTROL.
   (A)   The applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, City
Council, all officers, employees, or agents of the city against all damages,
claims, demands, actions, costs, and expenses which may result from any injury
to or the death of any person or from the loss of, or damages to, property of
any kind or nature, including the street and street facilities or structures,
property, or equipment used or owned by the city or the Street Department or
his or her designee, and facilities which now or may hereafter occupy the
right-of-way of said street, when such injury, death, loss, or damage arises
out of the construction, installation, maintenance, repair, removal,
relocation, operation, or use of the pole line, buried cable, pipe line, sign,
or miscellaneous facility covered by the permit, or out of miscellaneous
operation authorized by the permit.
   (B)   The city, its officers, or employees shall not be held responsible or
liable for injury or damage that may occur to facilities covered by the permit
or any connection thereto by reason of street maintenance and construction
operations or resulting from motorist or street-user operations or street
contractor or permittee operations.
   (C)   The applicant shall employ methods in performing the operations
authorized by the permit which the Public Works Director or his or her designee
may require in order to properly protect the public from injury and the street
from damage.
   (D)   During the initial installation or construction of the facilities
authorized by the permit, or during any future repair, removal, or relocation
thereof, or during any miscellaneous operations, the applicant shall at all
times maintain such flagperson, signs, lights, flares, barricades, and other
safety devices during non-work hours and the Public Works Director or his or
her designee may request and be furnished the telephone number and address of
such watchperson.
   (E)   (1)   The applicant shall conduct his or her operations so that there
will be a minimum of interference with or interruption of traffic upon and
along the street.
      (2)   Except in emergencies, there shall be no interference with or
interruption of traffic upon and along the street until a plan for the
satisfactory handling of traffic has been prepared by the permit holder and
approved by the Public Works Director or his or her designee.
      (3)   In emergencies, the applicant shall notify the Public Works
Director or his or her designee as soon as possible.
   (F)   All traffic-control and safety devices used for the protection of the
work areas shall conform to the current provisions of the Oregon Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, Technical Bulletin No. 28.
   (G)   To ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit, the
city reserves the right to inspect actions taken under a permit at any time and
to require the applicant to correct all deviations from the permit. The cost of
such inspection shall be paid by the applicant under the terms outlined in §
95.081 of this subchapter.
   (H)   Any supervision and control exercised by the Public Works Director or
his or her designee shall in no way relieve the applicant of any duty or
responsibility to the general public, nor shall such supervision and control
relieve the applicant from any liability for loss, damage, or injury to persons
or property as provided in §
95.083 of this subchapter.
   (I)   Notice must be given to the Public Works Director or his or her
designee at least two working days prior to commencement of actual construction
under a permit.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.083 INSURANCE AND BOND.
   (A)   When requested in writing by the Public Works Director or his or her
designee, the applicant or his or her contractor shall obtain and carry, for
the period of time required for the complete installation of the facilities
authorized by the permit, including the repair and restoration of the street
facilities, and also during such future period of time when operations are
performed involving the repair, relocation, or removal of said facilities
authorized by the permit, a liability and property damage insurance policy
providing coverage against any claim, demand, suit, or action for property
damage, personal injury, or death resulting from any activities of the
applicant, his or her officers, employees, agents, or contractors in connection
with the construction, installation, repair, or removal of facilities
authorized by the permit and the repair and restoration of the street
facilities. The policy shall also include as named insured, the city, its
officers, agents, and employees except as to claims against the applicant, for
personal injury to any officers, agents, and employees of the city or damages
to any city property. The policy shall provide coverage in the following
amounts: $50,000 for property damage resulting from any single occurrence;
$100,000 for the death or injury of any person, subject to a limit of $200,000
for injuries or deaths resulting from any single occurrence, as set by
resolution of the City Council. The policy shall be by an insurance company
duly authorized and licensed to do business in the state. A copy of the policy
shall be submitted to the Public Works Director or his or her designee and
approved by him or her before any work is commenced under this permit.
   (B)   When requested in writing by the Public Works Director or his or her
designee, the applicant, or his or her contractor, shall furnish for the period
of time required for the complete installation of the facilities authorized by
the permit, including the repair and restoration of the street facilities, and
also during such future periods of time when operations are performed involving
the repair, relocation, or removal of said facilities authorized by the permit,
a bond or cash deposit in the amount specified in the special provisions of the
permit. If a bond is furnished, it must be written by a surety company duly
qualified and licensed to do business in the state and in a form satisfactory
to the Public Works Director or his or her designee. No work shall be commenced
under the permit until security has been submitted to and approved by the
Public Works Director or his or her designee.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.084 CONSTRUCTION AND LOCATION DETAILS.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit with the application the following:
      (1)   Drawings or sketches showing in detail the location of the proposed
facility or operation with respect to existing and planned street improvement,
the traveled way, the right-of-way lines, and, where applicable, the access
control lines and approved access points;
      (2)   The details of the attachment method if facilities are to be
attached to a street structure; and
      (3)   Pressure pipelines data, if applicable as set forth below:
         (a)   Design pressure of pipe;
         (b)   Normal operating pressure; and
         (c)   Maximum operating pressure.
   (B)   The applicant’s completed facility shall be in substantial conformance
with the information required by division (A) above, unless permission is
obtained from the Public Works Director or his or her designee to modify during
installation. When a modification is approved, the applicant shall furnish the
Public Works Director or his or her designee four sets of “as constructed”
drawings or sketches.
   (C)   All work in connection with the facility authorized by the permit
shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner to the satisfaction of the
Public Works Director or his or her designee, and construction shall conform to
the rules of the State Public Utility Commissioner, the State Board of Health,
or other governmental agencies having regulatory authority over the facility.
In the event the above agencies do not prescribe standards which provide the
degree of protection substantially equal to the following industry codes, then
the appropriate industry codes shall apply as found in the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers (ASME) codes and standards.
   (D)   Corrugated metal pipe and concrete pipe used as a conduit or casing
pipe or a gravity flow carrier pipe shall, as a minimum, conform to
requirements of the current issue of State of Oregon, Standard Specifications
for Highway Construction. Smooth iron or steel pipe used as a conduit or casing
pipe shall be the standard type used for pressure pipe.
   (E)   No trench shall be excavated with a top width in excess of 18 inches
more than the outside diameter of the pipe, conduit, or cable to be installed
unless permission is obtained from the Public Works Director or his or her
designee.
   (F)   The backfilling of all trenches and tunnels must be accomplished
immediately after the facility authorized by the permit has been placed therein
and must be well tamped and fully compacted so as to allow the least possible
amount of subsequent settlement.
   (G)   All debris, refuse, and waste of all kinds which may have accumulated
upon the street right-of-way by reason of the operations of the applicant shall
be removed immediately upon completion of the said operations, and the street
right-of-way restored to the condition it was prior to construction.
   (H)   Unless permission is obtained from the Public Works Director or his or
her designee to open cut for pipe line or conduit which crosses under the
surfaced portion of the street and shoulders, street or street connections,
street approaches, or driveways, the permit holder shall tunnel, jack, or drive
under the surface in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Trenching shall be no nearer the toe of the fill slope in fill
sections or the point where the outer edges of the surfacing meets the subgrade
in other sections than specified in the special provisions.
      (2)   Tunneling shall be by an approved method which supports the
surrounding materials so as to prevent caving or settlement. Areas around the
installed pipe or conduit shall be backfilled with moist sand, granular
material, or cement grout filling all voids and packed in place with mechanical
tampers or other approved devices. Lagging, bulkheading, and timbering shall be
removed as the backfilling progresses.
      (3)   Jacking, driving, or boring shall be by approved means which will
hold disturbances of surrounding material to a minimum. Sluicing and jetting is
not permitted. Voids or displacement outside the outside perimeter of the pipe,
conduit, or cable where greater than 0.1 foot, shall be filled with sand or
cement grout packed in place.
   (I)   When permission is granted to open cut the surfaced portion of the
street, the following provisions shall be followed.
      (1)   Trench edges in paved areas shall be sawn or cut to neat lines by
methods satisfactory to the Public Works Director or his or her designee to a
depth sufficient to permit removal of pavement without damage to pavement to be
left in place. Pavement within the cutting limits, together with all other
excavated material, shall be removed and disposed of outside street right-of-
way.
      (2)   No more than half of the traveled way shall be trenched at one
time. The opened half shall be completely backfilled before opening the other
half.
      (3)   Closure of intersecting streets, street approaches, or other access
points will not be permitted. Upon trenching across such facilities, steel
running plates, planks, or other satisfactory methods shall be used to provide
for traffic to enter or leave the street or adjacent property.
      (4)   No more than 300 feet of trench longitudinally along the street
shall be open at one time and no trench shall be left in open condition
overnight.
      (5)   Immediately after a facility authorized by a permit has been placed
in the trench, the trench shall be backfilled with compacted granular material,
commonly designated as previous material, which cannot be ribboned out between
the finger and thumb and which is free from humus, organic matter, vegetable
matter, frozen material, clods, sticks, and debris, and contains no stones
having a dimension greater than three inches. Said granular material shall be
placed to an elevation which will allow placing the following foundation
material and wearing surface.
         (a)   Where original surface was asphalt concrete or bituminous
treatment or mix:
            1.   Wearing surface: asphalt concrete placed to a compacted
thickness of four inches or the thickness of the removed pavement, whichever is
greater; and
            2.   Foundation material either 1-0 inch or 3/4 - 0 inch aggregate
placed to a compacted thickness of four inches or the thickness of the removed
stone base, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Where original surface was crushed rock or gravel, wearing
surface, and foundation material - either 1-0 inch or 3/4 - 0 inch aggregate
placed to a total compacted thickness of four inches or the thickness of the
removed stone base and wearing surface, whichever is greater.
         (c)   All materials in divisions (I)(5)(a) and (I)(5)(b) above and
their placement shall conform to the requirements of the current Oregon State
Highway Standard Specifications for Highway Construction.
      (6)   For a period of one year following the patching of the paved
surface, the applicant shall be responsible for the condition of pavement
patches, and, during that time, shall, upon request of the Public Works
Director or his or her designee, repair to the Public Works Director’s or his
or her designee’s satisfaction any patches which become settled, cracked,
broken, or otherwise faulty.
   (J)   Unless permission is obtained from the Public Works Director or his or
her designee, direct burial of cable placed by the ploughing method shall be
limited to areas outside the surfaced portion of the street.
   (K)   Standard warning signs for buried power or communications cable and
for pipelines carrying gas or flammable liquids shall be placed at each
crossing under the street and at intervals along longitudinal installations as
required by current PUC order, or as specified by the Public Works Director or
his or her designee, such as:
      (1)   Signs shall be offset as near the right-of-way line as practical;
and
      (2)   Signs for installations located within the streetbed may be placed
behind existing guard rail.
   (L)   Pole line locations over the street shall have a minimum height of the
lowest wire at 20 feet; locations parallel and not on the traveled portion, the
minimum height of the lowest wire shall be 18 feet. Poles shall be located not
less than 12 feet from the edge of pavement on paved-surfaced streets, or not
less than eight feet from the shoulder on gravel-surfaced streets. Wherever
possible, poles shall be located along the tangent section of streets and on
the short curve radius side of curves. Poles to be located on the long radius
side of curves will require additional approval by the Public Works Director or
his or her designee and will be subject to special conditions.
   (M)   Pedestals installed as part of a buried cable installation are to be
located one foot from the right-of-way line unless permission is obtained from
the Public Works Director or his or her designee to locate elsewhere. In no
case shall the pedestals be located within the street maintenance operating
area, including mowing operations, or nearer the pavement edge than any
official highway sign in the same general location.
   (N)   The buried cable or pipe depth shown on the permit form represents the
distance from the top of the surface or ground line to the top of the cable or
pipe.
   (O)   It is strictly forbidden to spray herbicides and cut or trim treas or
shrubs growing on the street right-of-way unless written permission has been
obtained from the city.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.085 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR REPAIR.
   (A)   Permits issued under this chapter are subject to modification by the
city including removal, relocation, or repair of the pole line, buried cable,
pipe line, sign, or miscellaneous facility covered by the permit at the sole
cost of the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receiving written notice from the Public Works Director or his or
her designee to remove, relocate, or repair a pole line, buried cable, pipe
line, sign, or miscellaneous facility, the applicant shall, within 30 days,
make arrangements for the removal, relocation, or repair of the same, at the
permit holder’s cost, in accordance with the notice and instructions received
from the Public Works Director or his or her designee. Before commencing said
removal, relocation, or repair, the permit holder shall furnish such insurance
and post such bond as the Public Works Director or his or her designee may
consider necessary at that time in the manner provided for in §
95.083 of this subchapter.
   (C)   Should the permit holder fail to remove, relocate, or repair a pole
line, buried cable, pipe line, sign, or miscellaneous facility, the Public
Works Director or his or her designee may remove, relocate, or repair the same
and submit a statement of total costs for the work to the permit holder. Upon
receiving the statement, the permit holder shall pay to the city the full
amount of removal, relocation, or repair costs. The applicant, in obtaining a
permit, also agrees to pay statutory court costs, disbursement, and attorneys’
fees if an action must be commenced to obtain costs billed pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.086 MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Permit holders shall keep facilities authorized by a permit in a good
state of repair.
   (B)   If the operating pressure for existing pressure pipe lines covered by
a permit is raised above the “maximum operating pressure” shown in a permit,
application for a new permit or an amendment to the existing permit is
required.
   (C)   If additional conductors, or replacement conductors of a higher
capacity, on an existing aerial pole line covered by a permit are installed,
application for a new permit or an amendment to the existing permit is
required.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.087 OTHER AGENCIES.
   (A)   Nothing in a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter is intended to
grant rights or imply approval in areas not falling within the authority and
jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to determine the need for
and to obtain such licenses, permits, or other form of approval which may be
required by state agencies, federal agencies, cities, utility companies, and
railroads.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.088 EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in the special provisions, a permit shall be
in effect for an indefinite period of time.
   (B)   Failure of the applicant after notice by the Public Works Director or
his or her designee to comply with the terms of a permit shall be sufficient
cause for cancellation of a permit.
   (C)   The permit and the privileges granted and the obligations of the
permit holder created thereby shall be binding upon the successors and assigns
of the permit holder.
   (D)   Permit holders shall give the Public Works Director or his or her
designee written notice of assignment or transfer.
   (E)   If the applicant fails to commence installation of the pole line,
buried cable, pipe line, sign, or miscellaneous facility covered by the permit
within 12 months from the date the permit is issued, the permit shall be null
and void.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.089 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Public Works Director or his or her designee may issue all permits
provided for by this chapter. If the Public Works Director or his or her
designee, in his or her discretion, determines that a permit is of more than
routine significance, he or she may refer the permit to the City Council for
final approval.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.090 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Public Works Director or his or her designee under this
subchapter may be appealed to the City Council upon filing a petition for
review and the payment of an appeal fee as set by a resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.091 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   City streets and sidewalks shall be left broom clean when excavating
or clearing lots at the end of each working day. Persons who fail to comply
with this provision shall pay the city the sum as set by resolution liquidated
damages for each day that person is in violation.
   (B)   If it is necessary for a person to cross over existing sidewalks and
curbs with trucks or other heavy equipment, protective planks of at least two
inches in thickness shall be laid down to cover the area where the trucks will
be crossing the sidewalks and/or curbs during each working day and protective
planks shall be removed at the end of every working day.
   (C)   If it is necessary to store equipment or supplies on sidewalks or city
streets, the contractor or owner shall first obtain a permit from the city for
that purpose. A fee, as set by resolution, shall be charged per week in
sections of eight feet by ten feet or 80 square feet.
   (D)   A street use permit shall be posted on the construction site next to
the building permit and shall be left plainly visible.
(Ord. 88, passed 4-5-1982)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
95.001 through
95.018 shall be liable to the city and shall pay the city the actual damages
incurred by the city as a result of the violation or a default.
      (2)   In the event the city is required to obtain the services of an
attorney to enforce the provisions hereof or to collect damages incurred, the
city shall, in addition, be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys fees
and other collection costs.
      (3)   No new excavation permits will be issued to any person whose work
has necessitated city action.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
95.065 through
95.068 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than
$500 for each separate offense. In addition to any fine, the court shall impose
any reasonable court costs, including but not necessarily limited to reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred by city in prosecuting the defendant.
(Ord. 34, passed 3-21-1977; Ord. 156, passed 12-3-1990)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License fees
   
110.04   License required
   
110.05   Application for business license
   
110.06   Certification of business license
   
110.07   Posting of license certificate
   
110.08   Transfers; relocations
   
110.09   Two or more business premises; two or more businesses on same premises
   
110.10   Exemptions
   
110.11   Medical marijuana facilities
   
110.12   Fee schedule
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter, except as otherwise specified, to provide
revenue for municipal purposes and to provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the city through the licensing of businesses as
defined in §
110.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any activity or solicitation for consideration, profession, trade,
occupation, enterprise, or pursuit of every kind conducted in the city except
as exempt pursuant to §
110.10 of this chapter.
   CONSIDERATION. Compensation, money, rent, or other bargained for
consideration, direct or indirect, given in return for service, goods, or
occupancy, possession, or use of real property.
   FLEA MARKET. A business in which the operator/sponsor is responsible for the
permanent business location and collectively advertises that a number of
artisan, antique, clothing, and special interest vendors are located in a
common area, selling from booths of other defined limited space within the
business location, typically under a single structure, and where the identity
and mix of vendors change on a frequent basis, and the vendors do not normally
individually advertise their product except as part of the FLEA MARKET.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The regular or continuing use of a dwelling for business
purposes, which business use is customarily incidental and subordinate to the
residential use of the dwelling, subject to the standards prescribed in the
Zoning Code or any successor zoning ordinances.
   PERSON. Any public or private corporation, including domestic and foreign
corporations, limited liability companies, firms, partnerships of every kind,
associations, organizations, syndicates, joint ventures, societies, and
individuals. Any person or entity required under state or federal law to obtain
a social security or taxpayer identification number shall be a PERSON under
this definition.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Real property, whether residential or commercial use,
offered for occupancy on a nightly, monthly, or other term basis, to persons
for direct or indirect consideration.
   TRANSPARENT OCCUPATION. The regular or continuing use of a dwelling for
business purposes, which business use is customarily incidental and subordinate
to the residential use of the dwelling, subject to the standards prescribed in
the Zoning Code or any successor zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All business license and non-refundable application fees shall be
determined by resolution of the City Council and may be amended in like manner
from time to time by the Council. The annual fees shall be assessed on a
calendar year basis, commencing January 1 and ending December 31, or a portion
thereof.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year following the
date of issuance. Persons first required to obtain a license after July 1 and
prior to December 31 shall pay a license fee equal to one-half the annual fee.
No rebate will be made should the licensee not remain in business for the
entire period.
   (C)   All license fees for continuing businesses are due January 1 and shall
be delinquent after January 31. Delinquent license fees shall have a 20%
delinquency penalty added. Administrative costs, established by resolution of
the City Council and which may be amended in like manner from time to time by
the Council, will be charged for each additional billing.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in any business within the limits of the city on four or
more separate occasions in a calendar year, or on one single occasion for a
period exceeding one week is subject to the license requirement unless exempted
by this chapter or expressly exempted by any other state or federal law. It
shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or transact business pursuant to
the requirements of this chapter without first securing a license from the City
Recorder and paying the fee prescribed by Council resolution.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person conducting any business required to be licensed shall,
prior to engaging in that business, make application for a business license.
Such application shall be made on forms provided by the City Recorder. There
shall be collected at the time of application a nonrefundable application fee
and the fee for the business license.
   (B)   The application shall include, but is not limited to, the following
information: name of the business, description of the type of business,
location, owner’s name, mailing address where mail for the business is
received, date of application, signature of the applicant, and other
information reasonably needed to issue a business license.
   (C)   For businesses renewing unexpired licenses, on or before January 1 of
each year, persons doing business in the city shall fill out a license
application form and pay the annual license fee for a license to engage in
business during the next year. No application fee shall be imposed for renewing
unexpired license applications.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.06 CERTIFICATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Recorder may withhold the issuance of a business license upon
a determination that the applicant’s proposed business or its proposed location
would not be in compliance with city ordinances; provided however that the
granting of the business license shall not be construed as a determination that
the proposed business or its location would be in compliance with city
ordinances.
   (B)   The license certificate is evidence of the applicant’s privilege to
conduct business in the city. The form of the license certificate shall be
prescribed by the City Council and shall specify the name of the business, name
of the licensee, type of business licensed, location of the business, the
amount of the fee paid, and shall bear the printed signature of the Mayor and
be countersigned by the Recorder.
   (C)   When the Recorder believes the application fails to meet the
requirements of this or any other applicable city ordinance, written notice
shall be mailed by regular mail to the address given by the applicant in the
application that the license application has been denied and the reason(s)
therefor. The applicant may appeal to the City Council by filing a written
appeal with the Recorder not later than ten days after the date of mailing the
notice of denial.
   (D)   The appeal shall recite the facts upon which the appeal is based and
shall be addressed to the City Council. Within 30 days after the date the
appeal is filed with the Recorder, the Council, shall hear the evidence and
arguments of the applicant and City Recorder. If the Council finds for the
applicant, it shall, by order, direct the Recorder to issue the license
certificate within 30 days of the date of the order. If the Council finds for
the Recorder, a license certificate shall not be issued.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.07 POSTING OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   At all times after the issuance of the business license certificate,
the licensee shall cause the certificate to be posted in a conspicuous place
upon the business premises, available for inspection by the public and by
employees of the business.
   (B)   Where the licensee has no office, business premises, or other
established place of business within the city, the license certificate or a
copy thereof shall be in the possession of the representative of the business
present within the city at all times during which business is being transacted
within the city or shall have a copy of the certificate on file with the City
Recorder.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.08 TRANSFERS; RELOCATIONS.
   (A)   In the event of transfer of ownership of any licensed business, the
applicable business license may be transferred by application to the City
Recorder. The City Recorder may approve or deny the transfer for the reasons
and by the procedure set forth in §
110.06 of this chapter. The transfer shall be for the balance of the year for
which the license was issued.
   (B)   In the event of a business relocation, the licensee shall apply to the
City Recorder to transfer the business location and pay the required
application fee. The City Recorder may approve or deny the transfer for the
reasons and by the procedure set forth in §
110.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.09 TWO OR MORE BUSINESS PREMISES; TWO OR MORE BUSINESSES ON SAME
PREMISES.
   (A)   The conducting of a business or businesses at two or more locations
shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed to be separate businesses,
and each business shall be subject to the license fees as set by Council
resolution and herein provided for.
   (B)   Any business activity lease under concession to or owned wholly or in
part by a different person or persons on the same premises must be separately
licensed unless otherwise exempted by this chapter.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   (1)   Any person transacting and carrying on business within the city
which is exempt from taxation by the city by virtue of the Constitution of the
United States, state, or by federal or state law including but not limited to
tax exempt organizations which have tax exempt status per I.R.C. § 501(C)(3),
being 26 U.S.C. § 501(C)(3), shall be exempt from the fees required by this
chapter.
      (2)   However, the business license application shall be accompanied by
proof of federal recognition of tax exempt status per I.R.C. § 501(C)(3);
   (B)   Persons engaging in commercial fishing unless they are selling
(wholesale or retail) fish products within the city;
   (C)   Any business paying a franchise fee under any city franchise
ordinance;
   (D)   Any person 16 years or younger who operates a business on a part-time
basis, which business has annual gross receipts of less than $1,500;
   (E)   Any person conducting judicial sales by executors or trustees under
court order, or sales being held for the lawful execution of government;
   (F)   Individual vendors at flea markets shall be exempt from the
requirement of obtaining a business license and paying any fee, provided the
operator of the flea market business has obtained a business license and paid
the applicable fees;
   (G)   Any person who is solely an “employee” for purposes of federal income
taxation and wage deductions, such as, employer income tax withholdings, social
security, and Medicare, shall not be deemed a person transacting business in
the city;
   (H)   Any activity conducted for which consideration is received but where
such consideration is not “gross income” under I.R.C. § 61, being 26 U.S.C. §
61; and
   (I)   The delivery of goods, provided that the delivery business does not
have a license to use or possess any real property nor lease, rent or own any
real property within the city.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
§ 110.11 MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY. A medical marijuana dispensary business required
to register with the Oregon Health Authority under O.R.S. 475B.450.
   RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES. A facility licensed by the State Liquor
Control Commissioner to produce, process, transport, sell, test, or deliver
marijuana for commercial recreational purposes.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   A medical marijuana facility and recreational marijuana facilities,
as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, may not be located within 1,000 feet of
Neighbors For Kids located at 634 S. Highway 101 and further described as Tax
Lot 7400 of Lincoln County Assessor Map 09-11-08CA.
      (2)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 475B.450stat, medical marijuana facilities and
recreational marijuana facilities, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, may
locate on lots within the Retail Commercial Zone (C-1), the Light Industrial
Zone (L-1), and the Marine Commercial Zone (M-C). Pursuant to O.R.S.
475B.450stat, medical marijuana facilities and recreational marijuana
facilities, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, may not be located within other
zones.
      (3)   Medical marijuana facilities and recreational marijuana facilities,
as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, may not be located on any lot or in any
building that also contains a residence or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Drive-through access. Drive-through access to a medical marijuana
facility and recreational marijuana facilities as required by O.R.S. Chapter
475B shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Business license required. In addition to all required local, state,
and/or federal licensing, an annual city business license shall be obtained and
maintained by a medical marijuana facility and recreational marijuana
facilities, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B. Notice of a business license
application for a medical marijuana facility and recreational marijuana
facilities, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, shall be provided in writing to
the applicant and to the owners of record of property on the most recent tax
assessment roll of the county within 1,000 feet of the subject property. The
business license fee for a medical marijuana facility and recreational
marijuana facilities, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, shall be established
by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Hours and rules of operation.
      (1)   A medical marijuana facility and recreational marijuana facilities,
as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, may be operated seven days a week,
including holidays, between 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (2)   No minors under the age of 21 are allowed within a medical
marijuana facility, recreational marijuana facilities, as required by O.R.S.
Chapter 475B, or premises during hours of operations.
      (3)   No marijuana or marijuana-infused product may be smoked, ingested,
or otherwise consumed on the premises, except as may be allowed pursuant to
applicable Oregon Health Authority administrative rules governing medical
marijuana facilities and recreational marijuana facilities, as required by
O.R.S. Chapter 475B.
      (4)   All products must be packaged in child-resistant safety packaging,
and may not be manufactured, packaged, or displayed in a manner that is
attractive to minors.
      (5)   No marijuana or consumption paraphernalia shall be displayed or
kept in a business so as to be readily visible from the exterior of the
licensed premises.
      (6)   Medical marijuana facilities and recreational marijuana facilities,
as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, shall employ reasonable measures and means
for preventing odors, debris, fluids, and other substances from exiting the
medical marijuana facility and recreational marijuana facilities, as required
by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, at all times.
   (F)   No city liability; indemnification.
      (1)   By accepting a medical marijuana facility and recreational
marijuana facilities, as required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, business licenses
issued pursuant to this section, the licensee waives and releases the city, its
officers, elected officials, employees, volunteers, and agents from any
liability for injuries, damages, or liabilities of any kind that result from
any arrest or prosecution of business owners, operators, employees, clients, or
customers for a violation of federal, state, or local laws and regulations.
      (2)   By accepting a license issued pursuant to this section, all
licensees, jointly and severally, if more than one, agree to indemnify, defend,
and hold harmless the city, its officers, elected officials, employees,
volunteers and agents, insurers, and self-insurance pool against all liability,
claims, and demands on account of any injury, loss, or damage, including,
without limitation, claims arising from bodily injury, personal injury,
sickness, disease, death, property loss or damage, or any other loss of any
kind whatsoever arising out of or in any manner connected with the operation of
the medical marijuana facility and recreational marijuana facilities, as
required by O.R.S. Chapter 475B, that is the subject of the license.
   (G)   Compliance with state laws and rules. Medical marijuana facilities
shall comply with all applicable state laws and state administrative rules
applicable to such facilities, including, but not necessarily limited to,
O.R.S. 475.300 through 475.346, O.R.S. Chapter 475B, O.A.R. 333-008-1000
through 333-008-1255, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the State
Liquor Control Commission related to recreational marijuana facilities.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-17-2015; Ord. 309, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 110.12 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fees and revisions of the fees for licensing businesses under this chapter
shall be set and updated periodically by City Council resolution.
(Res. 258, passed 12-1-1997)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person required by this chapter to obtain a business license who
shall engage in any business in the city without having first applied for a
license, paid the applicable fees, and obtained a business license certificate
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this chapter, punishable by a fine in a sum not less than double
the amount of the license fee as set by Council resolution nor more than ten
times the amount of the license fee. Each day of violation shall be a separate
offense. In addition to any fine, the court shall impose reasonable court
costs, including but not necessarily limited to reasonably attorney fees
incurred by the city in prosecuting the defendant. No license shall be issued
to any person convicted hereunder until the full amount of any fine imposed has
first been paid.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided above, and as separate and
concurrent causes of action or suit, the city may, in any court of competent
jurisdiction, sue any person, who has or is engaged in business in the city
without having complied with this chapter, for the amount of the license fee
payable; and also the city may in the same or separate suit seek an injunction
prohibiting such person from engaging in such business in the city in violation
of this chapter; and in any such action or suit the city shall, if it prevails,
recover in addition to its costs and disbursements a reasonable attorney’s fee
to be set by the court:
(Ord. 243, passed 11-17-1997)
CHAPTER 111: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and scope
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Automatic signaling devices; registration on keying
   
111.04   Duties of alarm users
   
111.05   Revocation of alarm user permits
   
111.06   Alarm equipment supplier and installer permits
   
111.07   Alarm equipment operational standards for suppliers and installers
   
111.08   Alarm monitoring service permit procedures
   
111.09   Revocation of permits issued to alarm equipment suppliers, installers,
and alarm monitoring services
   
111.10   Fees
   
111.11   Appeals
   
111.12   Coordination of permits
   
111.13   Nonliability of city
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect emergency services of city
from misuse associated with false alarms.
   (B)   This chapter governs fire, medical, burglar, and hazard-monitoring
systems; requires permits, establishes fees, and provides for revocation of
permits; and provides for enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM EQUIPMENT INSTALLER. Any person, firm, or corporation, including
employees, agents, and independent contractors, who install, maintain, repair,
alter, replace, or service any alarm equipment.
   ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER. Any person, firm, or corporation, including
employees, agents, and independent contractors who supply, sell, lease, or rent
any alarm equipment.
   ALARM MONITORING SERVICE. Any person, firm, or corporation, including
employees, agents, and independent contractors in the business of operating a
service whereby persons receive messages from automatic signaling devices,
report emergencies at stated locations, and relay such emergency messages to a
communications center, including, but not limited to, the city’s law
enforcement agency.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or system of interconnected devices, including
hardware and related accessories, designed to give warning of a fire, burglary,
robbery, medical emergency, or other hazardous condition occurring on the
protected premises.
   ALARM USER. A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
governmental unit, or organization of any kind in control or ownership of any
building, structure, or facility where an alarm system is maintained and in
operation.
   AUTOMATIC SIGNALING DEVICE. An electrically or mechanically operated
instrument that automatically signals or sends by any means, including, but not
limited to, direct or indirect connection to regular telephone lines, a unique
coded message from protected premises to a separate location upon receipt of a
stimulus from a sensory detection apparatus. These devices include any device
that activates any audible alarm or light signaling device attached to the
interior or exterior of protected premises. This definition includes devices
utilized to verify or confirm a signal generated by the protected premises.
   COMMUNICATION CENTER. The facility where a public safety agency or agencies
participate in dispatch or call transfer services, including receiving
emergency transmissions and general information from the public to be
dispatched to the respective entities utilizing the center.
   DIRECT LINE. A special telephone line, unavailable for use by the public at-
large, leading directly to the city’s law enforcement agency or communications
center from a single, specific location and designed to be used only to report
emergency messages and signals on a person-to-person basis.
   FALSE ALARM. An activation of an alarm system which results in the dispatch
of emergency personnel to the protected premises where emergency personnel are
unable to discover any evidence of an emergency condition, but does not include
a dispatch of emergency personnel pursuant to an alarm signal caused by violent
conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably
subject to control by the alarm use.
   KEY. To utilize a telephone line for transmitting a message.
   REGULAR PHONE LINE. A general telephone line leading to the city’s law
enforcement agency, communications center, or alarm monitoring service
available for use by the public at large.
   SENSORY DETECTION DEVICE. A mechanical or electrical device that is part of
any automatic signaling device which is designed for detection of any physical
force or condition inherently characteristic of fire, unauthorized intrusion
into or upon protected premises, or other emergency or hazardous condition,
which results in the dispatch of emergency personnel to the protected premises.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.03 AUTOMATIC SIGNALING DEVICES; RESTRICTIONS ON KEYING.
   (A)   Keying of automatic signaling devices in any manner so as to send a
prerecorded message directly over emergency telephone lines to the city’s law
enforcement agency or communications center is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   On or before January 1, 1993 and after reasonable notice to affected
alarm users, all automatic signaling devices presently keyed to send
prerecorded messages directly over telephone lines to the city’s law
enforcement agency or communications center shall have such keying function
disabled. In the event such keying function is not disabled, prerecorded
messages will no longer be acknowledged or answered by the city’s law
enforcement agency or communications center.
   (C)   On or before January 1, 1993, all existing automatic dialing devices
programmed to select an emergency number to the city’s law enforcement agency
or communication center shall be reprogrammed to select a designated trunk line
number at the communication center.
   (D)   After the effective date hereof, no one except a licensed alarm
equipment installer shall key any automatic signaling device to a licensed
alarm monitoring service.
   (E)   The Communications Director shall prescribe administrative rules for
the type and number of alarm receivers to be installed in the communication
center. No equipment shall be installed and no alarm signal shall be sent to
the communication center without the express permission of the Communications
Director. Said rules are to be maintained in a written file to be reasonable
available to the public for the purpose of inspection.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 DUTIES OF ALARM USERS.
   (A)   Every alarm user, including those utilizing an alarm monitoring
system, shall obtain a permit for each alarm system located within the city.
This section shall not apply to smoke alarms which are required by law and
which are not connected to a communications center by direct line.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of an alarm user utilizing any automatic
signaling device to arrange for the accomplishment of equipment alteration
prescribed in §
111.03 of this chapter.
   (C)   Every alarm user utilizing an alarm system with an automatic signaling
device shall be responsible for the maintenance of the device, and shall repair
any defective device within 48 hours after the alarm user learns or reasonably
should have learned that the device is defective. The automatic signaling
device shall be disconnected after the expiration of 48 hours if repairs cannot
be made within that time.
   (D)   Any alarm user required by federal, state, city, or municipal statute,
regulation, rule, or ordinance to install, maintain, and operate an alarm
system shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Permit application forms shall be made available to persons required
to have them through the city hall. Application and accompanying fees shall be
returned to the city hall for processing.
   (F)   Every permit application required by this section shall be signed by
the alarm user or his or her agent and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the alarm user. If the
applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the partners shall be
given; if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of its
principal officers and registered agent shall be given;
      (2)   Location of alarm system and type of system;
      (3)   Name of licensed installer and the installer’s state license
number, if applicable;
      (4)   Name of the person or company responsible for repair and/or
maintenance of the alarm system, if applicable;
      (5)   Statement by applicant on the application that he or she is aware
of the requirements of this chapter and the fees and penalties prescribed
herein; and
      (6)   Names and telephone number of persons at different locations who
may be authorized to respond to an emergency and enter or open the premises
where the device is installed.
   (G)   Information submitted to the city’s law enforcement agency pursuant to
this section shall remain confidential.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992; Ord. 184, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION OF ALARM USER PERMITS.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for revoking any alarm user permit:
      (1)   Any false or incomplete statement made on the permit application;
      (2)   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter; or
      (3)   Failure to pay a false alarm fee as prescribed in §
111.99 of this chapter within 30 days of demand.
   (B)   An alarm user shall immediately discontinue use of the alarm system
upon being notified by certified mail of the revocation of the permit.
   (C)   Any party whose permit has been revoked under division (A)(1) above
may appeal the revocation under the provisions of §
111.11 of this chapter.
   (D)   An application for a permit subsequent to a revocation of a prior
permit is considered an initial application and is subject to the fee
provisions of §
111.04(H) of this chapter.
   (E)   Each permit shall remain in effect for a period of five years from the
date of issuance unless the permit is suspended or revoked; or the alarm
equipment installer, supplier, or alarm monitoring service is discontinued; or
the person or persons, or organizations owning, leasing, renting, or in control
of the protected premises changes. In the event any of the above conditions
occur, the permit shall be null and void, and continued use of an alarm system
shall be deemed in violation of this chapter, subject to the penalties
provision of §
111.99 of this chapter.
   (F)   Each alarm user permit shall be available for inspection at reasonable
times by the city’s law enforcement agency or communications center.
   (G)   Within ten days following any change of circumstances which renders
obsolete any of the information submitted pursuant to §
111.04(F) of this chapter, the alarm user shall file an amendment to his or her
application setting forth the current accurate information. No additional fee
shall be required for this change in information.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER AND INSTALLER PERMITS.
   (A)   Any alarm equipment supplier or installer selling or leasing automatic
signaling devices for installation in or upon any premises in the city, or
installing or maintaining such devices, whether or not such devices are keyed
to a licensed alarm monitoring service, shall obtain a license from the city’s
law enforcement agency before engaging in such sale, lease, installation, or
maintenance.
   (B)   Each application shall be signed by the individual proprietor of such
business or by a partner or authorized corporate official and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the alarm equipment supplier
or installer; names of all persons authorized to enter protected premises on
behalf of the supplier of installer; and type of business organization
(individual proprietorship, partnership, or corporation). If a corporation, the
names and addresses of the principal officers and state where incorporated;
      (2)   A statement certifying that the availability of 24-hour service of
automatic signal devices has been provided to each customer to include a 24-
hour telephone number to obtain service;
      (3)   A statement that the applicant agrees to comply with the operation
standards listed within this chapter;
      (4)   A verification section to be signed by the applicant that all alarm
equipment installers employed by the applicant have an state limited energy
electrical license as required by O.R.S. 479.620. This section shall also
include a statement by the applicant and his or her agent that no alarm system
shall be installed, used, or maintained in violation of any of the requirements
of adopted provisions of the Uniform Fire Code, being O.A.R. 837-040-0001 et
seq., or of any applicable statute, law, or administrative regulation of the
state or the city;
      (5)   All alarm equipment suppliers or installers shall provide their
employees or agents, who actually install and/or maintain alarms, an
identification card designating the name of the person and the business name of
the supplier or installer. The applicant and persons required to have the
identification card shall carry the identification card and produce it upon
request;
      (6)   The City Recorder may refuse to issue a permit under this section
if an applicant or his or her agent(s) authorized to enter protected premises
have been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or any felony;
      (7)   The City Recorder shall provide application forms. Fees shall be
charged in accordance with §
111.04(H) of this chapter; and
      (8)   Each permit shall remain in effect as provided in §
111.05(E), (F), and (G) of this chapter.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.07 ALARM EQUIPMENT OPERATIONAL STANDARDS FOR SUPPLIERS AND
INSTALLERS.
   In addition to other requirements for issuance of permits imposed by §§
111.04 through
111.13 and 111.99 of this chapter, the city’s law enforcement agency, before
issuance of a permit, shall ensure that the following minimum operational
standards are met and agreed upon.
   (A)   An alarm equipment supplier or installer that sells, leases, or rents
automatic signaling devices for installation in or upon any premises in the
city or installs or maintains such device, whether or not such device is keyed
to a licensed monitoring service, shall furnish to the person for whom such
device is installed or service provided, complete instructions detailing the
operation of the device. These instructions shall include information as to how
the device may be disconnected.
   (B)   All licensed alarm equipment suppliers or installers shall provide the
city within 60 days of the sale, lease, rental, or installation of an alarm
system, or with respect to all automatic signaling devices previously sold,
leased, installed, or maintained, on or before January 1, 1993, a listing of
all automatic signaling device installations located in the city known to the
supplier or installer. This information shall include the requirements of §
111.04(F)(1), (F)(2), (F)(3), (F)(4), and (F)(6) of this chapter.
   (C)   When automatic signal devices sold, leased, installed, or maintained
by an alarm equipment supplier or installer have been keyed to a licensed alarm
monitoring service, information to be supplied to the city pursuant to division
(B) above, shall be provided in duplicate to the alarm monitoring service to
which the service has been keyed.
   (D)   At the time of sale, lease, or instillation of an alarm system, all
licensed alarm equipment suppliers and installers shall furnish to the person
for whom the automatic signaling device has been sold, leased, rented, or
installed written information as to how maintenance service from an installer
may be obtained on a 24-hour basis, including a 24-hour telephone number to
call for service.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.08 ALARM MONITORING SERVICE PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An alarm monitoring service or a telephone answering service that
desires to include in its service the receipt and relay of messages from
automatic signaling devices shall first obtain from the City Recorder a permit
application form. The application form, upon completion, shall be returned to
the City Recorder for approval and shall include the signature of the owner or
authorized representative of such business and shall include information as
required in §
111.04(F)(1), (F)(2), (F)(3), (F)(4), and (F)(6) of this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, an applicant shall provide the following:
      (1)   A statement that the applicant is willing to comply with the
operational standards contained in administrative rules promulgated by the
city’s law enforcement agency; and
      (2)   An agreement that the city’s law enforcement agency may conduct a
background check on the applicant and any of his or her employees at any time.
Each permit shall remain effective as provided for in §
111.05(E), (F), and (G) of this chapter.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.09 REVOCATION OF PERMITS ISSUED TO ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIERS, INSTALLERS,
AND ALARM MONITORING SERVICES.
   The following shall be grounds for revoking a permit issued to an alarm
equipment supplier, installer, or alarm monitoring service:
   (A)   Any false or incomplete statement made on the permit application;
   (B)   Failure to comply with any section of this chapter;
   (C)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or intentional false statement pertaining to
conduct of business authorized by such permit;
   (D)   The permit holder shall immediately discontinue activity authorized by
a permit upon receipt of notice of revocation by the City Recorder by certified
mail; and
   (E)   Any party whose permit has been revoked under this section may appeal
the revocation pursuant to the provisions of §
111.11 of this chapter.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.10 FEES.
   (A)   Fees shall be charged to cover the administrative costs of processing
applications and monitoring compliance with code provisions. The City Recorder
may propose fee increases to cover increased costs at a maximum of one time per
year. All fee increase proposals shall be approved by Council resolution to be
effective.
   (B)   Each permit is valid for five years from issuance. Alarm installer and
alarm monitoring permits are nontransferable. Alarm user permits are
transferable to new owners of the structure covered by the permit if the new
owner fills out and signs an application form required under §
111.04 of this chapter. Failure to file a signed application form shall not
waive the penalties prescribed under the public safety alarm code provisions.
   (C)   All fees collected by the City Recorder pursuant to this chapter shall
be deposited into the city general fund.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992; Ord. 184, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 111.11 APPEALS.
   Any person who has been assessed a false alarm penalty, had a permit revoked
or suspended, or suffered any other penalty as provided in this chapter, may
appeal to the City Council. A written notice of appeal of any assessment,
revocation, suspension, or other penalty shall be filed with the City Recorder
within ten days of the charge.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.12 COORDINATION OF PERMITS.
   If any alarm equipment supplier or installer also conducts an alarm
monitoring service, even though the business names may be different, it will be
necessary for the firm or firms involved to pay only the alarm installer permit
fee for the issuance of both permits. However, necessary forms will need to be
completed for each operation for the purposes of processing information and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.13 NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   Neither the city nor any official, agent, or employee thereof, including the
communications center and its employees, shall be liable for any damage
resulting from the malfunction or defective installation of any alarm system or
any alarm monitoring service or conduct of any personnel of any alarm supplier
or installer of alarm monitoring service as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   As a condition of any alarm system permit issued under the provisions
of this chapter, the alarm user shall pay to the city, within ten days of
invoice, fees for false alarms generated by the alarm user’s alarm system
according to the following schedule:
      (1)   First two alarms during each calendar year: no charge;
      (2)   For each false alarm thereafter: $100 per false alarm; or
      (3)   The alarm user’s permit shall be subject to revocation in the event
ten or more false alarms are generated within a calendar year.
   (B)   Violation of provisions of this chapter and any administrative rules
or regulations issued pursuant to this chapter by the City Recorder or city law
enforcement agency are punishable by revocation of the permit by the City
Recorder, and any other pertinent statues, rules and remedies at law, whether
common law or statutory law.
(Ord. 181, passed 9-8-1992)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
112.01   Generally
§ 112.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city follows the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the
basic service rates and charges for cable systems operating in the city.
   (B)   In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
   (C)   The City Recorder, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute on
behalf of the city and file with the FCC, such certification forms or other
instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations
in order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Res. 199, passed 5-20-1994)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Discharge of weapons
   
130.03   Fireworks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor shall be in or upon any street, highway, park, alley, or
other public place between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. of the
following morning, unless:
      (1)   Such minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person 18
years of age or over and authorized by the parent or by law to have care and
custody of the minor;
      (2)   Such minor is then engaged in a lawful pursuit or activity which
requires the presence of the minor in such public places during the hours
specified in this section; or
      (3)   The minor is emancipated pursuant to O.R.S. 419B550 through
419B558.
   (B)   No parent, guardian, or person having the care and custody of a minor
under the age of 18 years shall allow such minor to be in or upon any street,
highway, park, alley, or other public place within the hours specified in
division (A) above, except as otherwise provided in that section.
   (C)   Any minor who violates this section may be taken into custody as
provided by O.R.S. 419.569 and may be subject to further proceedings as
provided in O.R.S. 419.472 through 419.597, 419.800 through 419.839, and
419.990(2).
   (D)   This section may be enforced in the manner provided by Chapter 11 of
this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 157, passed 12-3-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   No person other than a peace officer shall fire or discharge a gun,
including spring or air-actuated pellet guns, air guns, or BB guns, or other
weapon which propels a projectile by use of gunpowder or other explosive, jet,
or rocket propulsion.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-2-1974) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The discharging , or causing to be discharged, of any fireworks
defined by O.R.S. 480.111 is prohibited within city limits.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to a fireworks display issued a
public display permit from the state fire marshal under O.R.S. 480.130 through
480.150 and has the City Council’s approval on the date and time of the event.
(Ord. 331-21, passed 12-7-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.01, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of an amount not
to exceed $500 for each separate offense. A failure to comply with any
provision from day to day shall be a separate offense for each such day. In
addition to any such fine, the court shall impose reasonable court costs,
including but not necessarily limited to reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by
the city in prosecuting the defendant. The City Council shall designate by
resolution or from time to time, the appropriate amount of bail to scheduled
for violation of §
130.01. Such bail, once scheduled, shall remain in effect until further action
by the Council.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of §
130.02 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $750, or by imprisonment not
to exceed six months, or by both.
      (2)   Each violation of a separate provision of §
130.02 shall constitute a separate offense, and each day that a violation of §
130.02 is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   The maximum penalty for a violation of §
130.02 shall not exceed the maximum penalty prescribed for violation of a
substantially similar offense proscribed by the Oregon Criminal Code of 1971,
being O.R.S. 161.005 et seq.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-2-1974; Ord. 157, passed 12-3-1990)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Fees and deposits for land use actions
   
150.02   Land use and development review fees for building permit applications
§ 150.01 FEES AND DEPOSITS FOR LAND USE ACTIONS.
   (A)   The filing fees and deposits for land use actions under
Chapter 152 of this title and property line adjustments shall be as set forth
below until such time as further amended by Council resolution.
   (B)   Upon the filing of an application for a land use action under
Chapter 152 of this title or property line adjustments, an applicant or
appellant shall pay the sum total of the pre-hearing filing fee, the hearing/
post-hearing filing fee, and deposit per the schedule set forth below.
   (C)   The filing fees are non-refundable, except under the following
circumstance: upon withdrawal of an application (by written notice of
withdrawal or by failure to respond to written request from city to provide
additional information to complete application or, in the case of appeal, the
action being appealed is withdrawn) prior to the date of the public meeting or
public hearing, the hearing/post-hearing filing fee may be refunded to
applicant or appellant.
   (D)   The deposit amount shall be the initial deposit by the applicant for
the purpose of reimbursing the city for costs incurred by the city in
processing and preparing the action. While the application is pending, if it
appears to the City Recorder that the deposit is insufficient to pay for all of
the city’s costs in processing the application or appeal, the City Recorder
shall demand such additional amount of deposit as in the City Recorder’s
opinion is necessary to assure additional funds available to pay anticipated
additional costs. The applicant may appeal the City Recorder’s decision to the
City Council. Until such time as any additional deposit is paid, following
demand by the City Recorder, the City Recorder shall notify the body hearing
the land use action that the action shall be suspended until such time as the
additional deposit is paid to the city.
   (E)   The City Recorder shall establish an appropriate account for the
purpose of holding the deposit of land use action or property line adjustment
applicants or appellants until such time as the actual costs to the city have
been ascertained, either upon conclusion of the action or from time to time,
and upon such determination of the actual costs, the City Recorder shall
transfer such portion of the deposit from the account to reimburse the city for
its costs and expenses. Upon conclusion of the action, and determination of all
actual costs, any remaining deposit shall be reimbursed to the applicant or
appellant.
Land Use Action Fees and Deposit Schedule
Action/Application Pre-Hearing Fee Hearing/Post Hearing Fee Deposit Total
Land Use Action Fees and Deposit Schedule
Action/Application      Pre-Hearing Fee Hearing/Post Hearing Fee Deposit Total
Annexation              $200            $270                     $2,000  $2,470
Appeal                  $130            $110                     $1,500  $1,740
Coastal shoreland       $130            $110                     $500    $740
overlay
Conditional use         $130            $110                     $500    $740
Geo-tech report review  $130            $110                     $500    $740
Land division/partition $170            $110                     $280    $560
Non-conforming use      $130            $110                     $400    $640
Other action not listed $170            $110                     $1,000  $1,280
Planned development,
amend planned           $200            $270                     $2,000  $2,470
development
Property line           $100            $30                      $160    $290
adjustment
Text amendment          $150            $270                     $2,000  $2,420
Variance                $130            $110                     $500    $740
Zone change             $150            $200                     $800    $1,150
 
(Res. 313, passed 12-4-2002)
§ 150.02 LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES FOR BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A fee shall be charged for the purpose of reviewing building permit
applications for compliance with city land use and development ordinances and
regulations.
   (B)   The fee(s) shall be annually established by resolution of the City
Council or such other period of time, as determined by the City Council. The
fee(s) shall be set in such amounts as the Council determines is reasonably
calculated to recover the cost of review of land use and development ordinances
and regulations, either based upon the average cost of review of the category
of building permit applications or for each individual application review, at
the discretion of the City Council.
   (C)   Fees are due and payable at the time the building permit application
is filed with the city by the applicant. The fee shall be non-refundable; a
determination that the building permit application does not comply with
applicable land use and development ordinances and regulations shall not
entitle the applicant to a refund. The fee shall be charged each time a
building permit application is submitted to the city for review notwithstanding
any prior review of building permit application(s) on the same parcel.
   (D)   In instances which reasonably require the city to obtain plan review
by an engineer or other professional to determine compliance with land use and
development ordinances and regulations, any such additional direct costs will
be paid to the city by the applicant, in addition to the fee as set above.
(Ord. 245, passed 10-20-1998)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Adoption
   
151.02   Permits
   
151.03   Application
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   General provisions and requirements
   
151.06   Building permit fees
   
151.07   Floodplain
   
151.08   Mobile homes
   
151.09   Building exterior uncovered
   
151.10   Temporary structures
   
151.11   Fire Zone designation
   
151.12   Violations
Building Nuisances Abatement
   
151.25   Definition
   
151.26   Nuisance
   
151.27   Initial action
   
151.28   Hearing; mailed notice
   
151.29   Published and posted notices
   
151.30   Council order; notice
   
151.31   Abatement by city
   
151.32   Suit for abatement
   
151.33   Attorneys’ fees, courts costs, and costs of publication
   
151.34   Assessment
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 ADOPTION.
   The State of Oregon Building Code, hereafter “Building Code,” being O.R.S.
455.040, latest edition, as revised every three years, which includes
electrical, mechanical, structural building codes, and any and all amendments,
is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
Nothing in this chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any of
the provisions of the State of Oregon Building Code; where this chapter
(containing the Structural Specialty Code, adopted as the Uniform Building
Code, Volume 1, and Standards thereto, 1973 Edition, and the Mechanical
Specialty Code of the city, adopted as the Uniform Mechanical Code, including
Appendices A, B, and C, of the 1973 Edition) and the State of Oregon Building
Code may conflict or overlap, the State of Oregon Building Code shall prevail.
§ 151.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall do any work within the city
covered under the scope of these regulations except as excluded herein without
first obtaining a permit and paying the appropriate fees to the authorized
permit issuing agency.
   (B)   The Building Official is hereby designated as the appropriate permit
issuing agency. The Building Official may double the permit fee if any work
requiring a permit is commenced prior to the issuance of a permit, except that
this provision will not apply to proven emergency work or work authorized to
proceed by the Building Official temporarily without a permit.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of the Building Code hereby adopted shall apply to structures
in the city, except that agricultural buildings as hereinafter defined are
hereby exempted from application of the code, provided, however, that this term
does not include farm dwellings.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure located on a farm and used in the
operation of such farm for the storage, maintenance, or repair of farm
machinery and equipment or for the raising, harvesting, and selling of crops or
in the feeding, breeding, management, and sale of, or the produce of livestock,
poultry, fur-bearing animals, or honey bees or for dairying and the sale of
dairy products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or animal
husbandry or any combination thereof including the preparation and storage of
products raised on such a farm for human’s use and animal use in disposal by
marketing or otherwise. Provided, AGRICULTURAL BUILDING does not include a
dwelling, or a structure which accommodates more than ten people assembled for
more than 12 hours a week, or a structure regulated by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to O.R.S. Chapter 476, or a place used by the public.
   APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The City Council of Depoe Bay, Oregon.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Depoe Bay Building Department.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official designated by the City Council as the
Building Official.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of volunteer fire departments, or fire departments
rural fire prevention districts, whichever department shall have jurisdiction
over the area involved, or to his or her regularly appointed deputy.
   MOBILE HOME. A trailer house not less than 32 feet in body length, exclusive
of hitch, which is designed and maintained for long-term permanent occupancy
and contains a flush toilet, and a tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities
with water and electrical systems connected to outside systems.
   MODULAR OR FACTORY-BUILT HOME. A building or structural unit which has been
in whole or substantial part manufactured at an off-site location to be wholly
or partially assembled on site; but provided that this term does not include a
mobile home, trailer, or recreational vehicle.
   STREET. As defined in the Building Code and to public roads of the city.
   TRAILER HOUSE; TRAVEL. A trailer house not more than eight feet in body
width or more than 32 feet in body length designed primarily for temporary
occupancy or for travel, recreational, and vacation uses.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.05 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The State Plumbing Code as contained in O.R.S. Chapter 447; the laws
pertaining to electrical wiring and equipment as contained in O.R.S. Chapter
479; and the State Fire Marshal laws as contained in O.R.S. Chapter 476 are
incorporated herein and hereby made an integral part of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Before a building permit is issued for a new building or
structure, or for substantial structural alteration which enlarges or moves any
existing building or structure, the applicant shall furnish a plot plan showing
dimensions of the property and the locations and size of the building proposed
and existing.
      (2)   This plot plan shall also show the location or proposed location of
any waste lines and waste disposal facilities.
   (C)   All plans submitted to the Building Inspector, and all construction
inspected shall conform to the above-cited state law and codes.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.06 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The State of Oregon Building Code, latest edition, is hereby amended by the
use of the following table.
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation                         Fee
$1 to $200                              $2.50
$201 to and including $500              $5
                                        $5 for the first $500, plus $1 for each
$501 to $2,000                          additional $100 or fraction thereof to
                                        and including $2,000
                                        $20 for the first $2,000, plus $4 for
$2,001 to $25,000                       each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                        thereof, to and including $25,000
                                        $112 for the first $25,000, plus $3 for
$25,001 to $50,000                      each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                        thereof, to and including $50,000
                                        $187 for the first $50,000, plus $2 for
$50,001 to $100,000                     each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                        thereof, to and including $100,000
                                        $287 for the first $100,000, plus $1.50
$100,001 to $500,000                    for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                        thereof, to and including $500,000
                                        $887 for the first $500,000, plus $1
$500,000 and up                         for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                        thereof
Mobile home or travel trailer placement $15
(individual) not in a mobile home park
Modular or prefabricated home placement $15
fee
 
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974; Ord. 25, passed 5-3-1976)
§ 151.07 FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   (1)   The Building Official shall require that all buildings used for
dwelling purposed (including trailers) to be built or placed in a flood hazard
area shall have a minimum floor elevation 12 inches above the greatest flood of
local recollection, the Christmas flood of 1964, or the January 1965 flood,
whichever is highest.
      (2)   Elevations may be revised to levels determined by the Corps of
Engineers to be less than the level of the above, but not less than a new 100-
year flood level as determined by the Corps of Engineers if a new dam
construction were to reduce the flood hazard.
   (B)   Locate public utilities and facilities on the site in a manner as to
be elevated and constructed to minimize and eliminate flood damage, such
utilities and facilities include sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems.
   (C)   The Building Official, when reviewing applications for building
permits in floodplain areas, shall determine if the proposed construction is
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage in the city, and shall
require that all construction in a flood hazard area be designed and anchored
so as to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the building, or
portions thereof, due to flooding, and shall require construction methods
consistent with good engineering practices that will minimize flood damage to
any building built under a permit in a flood hazard area, and shall require
adequate drainage to the lot when he or she deems it necessary to reduce the
exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.08 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   (1)   No mobile home intended to be occupied as a residence (abode),
not located in a duly-licensed mobile home park and located in an approved
mobile home park trailer space, shall be placed on any lot within the city
without prior approval by the Building Official, and a mobile home location
permit having been obtained from the building office, and such information as
may be reasonable required by the Building Official having been given.
      (2)   This provision shall apply each time a mobile home is located.
   (B)   (1)   Mobile homes shall be placed only on foundations designed by the
manufacturer and approved by the Mobile Home Division of the State Commerce
Department, along with stabilizing devices to sustain all horizontal and
vertical loads.
      (2)   Stabilizing devices shall be capable of preventing drag and uplift
torque due to a 15-per square foot load and shall be capable of transmitting
the loads from the mobile home to the tie-downs.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.09 BUILDING EXTERIOR UNCOVERED.
   No exterior surfaces of any building under construction in the city shall be
allowed to remain uncovered, and no building paper shall be exposed, and no
exterior walls left in a non-weather protected condition for more than 18
months after a building permit shall have been issued.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.10 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   Buildings of a temporary nature may be permitted if conditions of business
warrant such construction. When the Building Official shall find this condition
to exist, he or she may, in his or her discretion, grant a building permit,
which permit shall be limited to 90 days with a possibility of renewal of an
additional 90-day period. The fee for such permit shall be $5.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.11 FIRE ZONE DESIGNATION.
   In order to facilitate administration of this Building Code in the city, it
is found necessary to classify such areas in various fire zones. Therefore, it
is hereby provided that in all areas of the city for the purpose of this code
of ordinances, the Fire Zone shall be deemed to be Fire Zone No. 3, which is
the least restrictive of the fire zones.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
§ 151.12 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any provision of this subchapter is punishable upon conviction
as provided in O.R.S. 456.885.
   (B)   In addition, the location, erection, construction, maintenance,
repair, alteration, commencement, or use of a building or other structure in
violation of this subchapter or amendments hereto shall be deemed a nuisance.
   (C)   In case a building or other structure is proposed to be located,
constructed, maintained, repaired, altered, or used in violation of this
subchapter or amendments hereto, the governing body or City Attorney, or any
person whose interest in real property in the city is or may be affected by the
violation, may, in addition to other remedies provided by existing law,
institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate proceedings at
law or in equity to prevent, temporarily or permanently enjoin, abate, or
remove the unlawful location, construction, maintenance, repair, alteration, or
use.
   (D)   In the case of continuing violations, every day’s repeat continuation
of the above-defined violation is deemed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-3-1974)
Editor’s note:
   See O.R.S. 455.990, formerly O.R.S. 456.885(2); O.R.S. 455.990 was repealed
by 1995 c.553 § 16; 1995 c.675 § 6, see Synopsis, 1995 c.675 § 6 (“An ACT
Relating to penalty for violation of building codes; amending O.R.S. 447.097,
447.160, 455.895, 693.165 and 693.190; and repealing O.R.S. 455.990”).
BUILDING NUISANCES ABATEMENT
§ 151.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Includes:
      (1)   A structure which, for the want of proper repairs or by reason of
age and dilipidated condition by reason of poorly installed electrical wiring,
or equipment, defective chimney, defective gas connection, defective heating
apparatus, or for any other cause or reason, is especially liable to fire, and
which is so situated or occupied as to endanger any other building or property
or human life;
      (2)   A structure containing combustible or explosive material, rubbish,
rags, waste, oils, gasoline, or inflammable substance of any kind, especially
liable to cause fire or danger to the safety of such building, premises or to
human life;
      (3)   A structure which shall be kept or maintained or shall be in a
filthy or unsanitary condition, especially liable to cause the spread of
contagious or infectious disease or diseases;
      (4)   A structure in such weak or weakened condition, or dilapidated or
deteriorated condition, as to endanger any person or property by reason of
probability of partial or entire collapse; and
      (5)   A structure which because of its condition or because of lack of
doors or windows is an attractive nuisance and a danger to children or other
persons and/or a harbor for vagrants and criminals.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.26 NUISANCE.
   Every building or part thereof which shall be found by the City Council, to
be a dangerous building, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the
same may be abated either summarily or the procedure herein specified may be
followed, or a suit for abatement thereof may be brought by the city.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.27 INITIAL ACTION.
   Whenever the Mayor, Street Commissioner, Fire Chief, or any City Councilor,
shall find or be of the opinion that there is a dangerous building within the
city, it shall be his or her duty to report the same to the City Council.
Thereupon, the City Council shall, within a reasonable time, fix a time and
place for a public hearing thereon.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.28 HEARING; MAILED NOTICE.
   Notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of record of the premises whereon the building in
question is located, by the City Recorder, notifying the owner in general terms
that a hearing will be held concerning the nuisance character of the property,
and the time and place thereof. A copy of this notice shall also be posted on
the property. At said time and place, or at such other time or place as the
City Council may adjourn to, the hearing shall be held, and the City Council
shall determine by resolution whether or not the building is dangerous. The
City Council may, as a part of the hearing, inspect the building, and the facts
observed by the City Council at such inspection may be considered by it in
determining whether or not the building is dangerous. At the hearing, the owner
or other person interested in the property or building shall have the right to
be heard, if such owner or person requests the same. At such hearing, the City
Council shall have the power to order any building declared to be dangerous,
removed, and abated, if in its judgment such removal or abatement is necessary
in order to remove the dangerous condition, or the Council shall have the power
to order the building made safe and to prescribe what acts or things must be
done to render the same safe.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.29 PUBLISHED AND POSTED NOTICES.
   Ten days’ notice of any hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by posting thereof in three public places in the
city. If the last-mentioned notice be published or given as herein required, no
irregularity or failure to mail notices shall invalidate the proceedings. The
notices to be published, posted, and mailed giving notice of any hearing
required herein may be in the following form:
   LEGAL NOTICE
   “TO:   (Record Owner) of the premises known and described as
_______________________. You are hereby notified that (described building) on
the premises above mentioned has been identified and reported to the City
Council as a dangerous building. The City Council has scheduled a public
hearing on that issue on the _____________ day of ____, 20___ at _______. If
the City Council determines that the building is dangerous, it will have the
power to order the building removed and abated, or prescribe what acts or
things must be done to render it safe. All costs incurred will be borne by the
owner.
         You have a right to appear and be heard at this hearing.”
         ____________________
         City Recorder
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.30 COUNCIL ORDERS; NOTICE.
   Five days’ notice of findings made by the City Council at a hearing and any
orders made by the City Council shall be given to the owner of the building,
his or her agent, or other person controlling the same, and if the orders be
not obeyed and the building rendered safe within the time specified by the
order (being not less than five days), then the City Council shall have the
power and duty to order the building removed or made safe at the expense of the
property on which the same is situated.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.31 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   In the event that the City Council orders are not complied with, the City
Council must specify with convenient certainty the work to be done and shall
file a statement thereof with the City Recorder, and shall advertise for bids
or quotes for the doing of the work in the manner provided for soliciting or
advertising for bids and quotes as required by state public contracting laws
and rules and regulations. Bids and/or quotes shall be received, opened, and
the contract let.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.32 SUIT FOR ABATEMENT.
   In the event the City Council’s orders for abatement or repairs or
modifications as provided for in §
151.30 of this subchapter is not complied with, the City Council may, as an
alternative to the remedy provided for in §
151.31 of this subchapter, bring suit for abatement of the nuisance in the
county circuit court.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.33 ATTORNEYS’ FEES, COURT COSTS, AND COSTS OF PUBLICATION.
   The owner of any property which fails to comply with the City Council’s
orders made in conformance with §
151.30 of this subchapter shall thereafter be liable for all costs incurred by
the city, including attorneys’ fees, court costs, and costs of publication
incurred by the city in enforcing its orders. In the event that suit or action
is required in court, the owner shall additionally be required to pay the City
Attorney’s fees and costs incurred therein.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.34 ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall ascertain and determine the probable costs of
the work, and the City Attorney’s fees and other costs in enforcing its order
in accordance with §
151.30 of this subchapter, and shall assess the same against the property upon
which the building is situated.
   (B)   The assessment shall be declared by resolution and it shall be entered
in the docket of city liens, and shall thereupon become a lien against the
property.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall be the owner of, or shall be in possession of, or
in responsible charge of, any dangerous building within the city and who shall
knowingly suffer or permit the building to be or remain dangerous for as long
as ten days after receipt of the notice specified in §
151.30, shall be guilty of a violation of §§
151.25 through
151.34, and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not to exceed $500 or
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-13-1976)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Definitions
   
152.004   Compliance with chapter provisions
   
152.005   Classification of zones
   
152.006   Location of zones
   
152.007   Zoning maps
   
152.008   Zone boundaries
   
152.009   Interpretation
   
152.010   Remedies
Use Zones
   
152.025   Residential Zone R-1
   
152.026   Residential Zone R-2
   
152.027   Residential Zone R-3
   
152.028   Residential Zone R-4
   
152.029   Residential Zone R-5
   
152.030   Retail Commercial Zone C-1
   
152.031   Commercial Zone C-1
   
152.032   North Coast Avenue Limited Land Use Overlay Zone (NCA)
   
152.033   Light Industrial Zone L-I
   
152.034   Marine Commercial Zone M-C
   
152.035   Planned Marine and Recreation Zone M-P
   
152.036   Marine Waterway Zone M-W
   
152.037   Timber Conservation Zone T-C
   
152.038   Public Facility Zone P-F
   
152.039   Coastal Shorelands Overlay Zone C-S
   
152.040   Flood Hazard Overlay Zone
   
152.041   Limited Land Use Overlay Zone L-LU
   
152.042   Planned Development Zone P-D
Supplemental Regulations
   
152.055   Clear vision areas
   
152.056   Manager/owner/caretaker residence
   
152.057   Street vendor prohibited
   
152.058   Off-street parking and off-street loading requirements
   
152.059   Distance from property line
   
152.060   Exterior lighting
   
152.061   General provisions regarding accessory uses, fences, retaining walls,
hedges, and decks
   
152.062   Approval of City Inspector
   
152.063   Review of Fire Department
   
152.064   Building permit approvals
   
152.065   Development guidelines
   
152.066   Standards and requirements for condominiums and time shares
   
152.067   Temporary placement of a manufactured dwelling
   
152.068   Design features for single-family dwellings
   
152.069   Transient occupancy of dwelling units
   
152.070   Transient occupancy business registration/amortization of short-term
rentals of dwellings
   
152.071   Siting standards for manufactured homes
   
152.072   Protection of streams, ponds, wetlands, and riparian areas
   
152.073   Protection of publicly-owned lands
   
152.074   Protection of coastal headlands; areas of exceptional aesthetic
resources
   
152.075   Protection of historic and archeological sites
   
152.076   Clearing, filling, excavating, and grading
Signs
   
152.090   Purpose
   
152.091   Non-conforming signs
   
152.092   Scope
   
152.093   Definitions
   
152.094   Sign permits required
   
152.095   Residential and NCA Overlay Zone requirements
   
152.096   C-1, L-I, and M-P Zone requirements
   
152.097   M-W Zone requirements
   
152.098   Temporary signs
   
152.099   Exceptions
   
152.100   Maintenance and appearance of signs
   
152.101   Abandoned signs
   
152.102   Variances
   
152.103   Liability
Exceptions
   
152.115   Projections from buildings
   
152.116   General exceptions to lot size requirements
   
152.117   General exceptions to building height limitations
Conditional Uses
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Authorization to grant or deny conditional use permit
   
152.132   Building permit for an approved conditional use
   
152.133   Time limit on conditional use permit
   
152.134   Revocation of a conditional use permit
   
152.135   Reapplication limit
   
152.136   Standards governing conditional uses
Non-Conforming Uses
   
152.150   Purpose
   
152.151   Definitions
   
152.152   Continuation of non-conforming use or structure
   
152.153   Expansion or renovation of non-conforming use
   
152.154   Extension, expansion, enlargement, or renovation of non-conforming
structures
   
152.155   Change of non-conforming use
   
152.156   Maintenance and repairs of non-conforming uses and structures
   
152.157   Discontinuance of non-conforming use
   
152.158   Destruction of non-conforming structure
Variances
   
152.170   Authorization to grant or deny variances
   
152.171   Circumstances for granting a variance
   
152.172   Variance procedure
   
152.173   Time limit on a variance
Amendments
   
152.185   Authorization to initiate amendments
   
152.186   Amendment procedure
   
152.187   Limitation
   
152.188   Time limit on a zoning map amendment
Administrative Provisions
   
152.200   Administration
   
152.201   Application procedures
   
152.202   Survey requirements
   
152.203   Review categories
   
152.204   Review procedures
   
152.205   Amendment procedure standards for review
   
152.206   Notice of public hearing
   
152.207   Conduct of quasi-judicial public hearings
   
152.208   Appeals
   
152.209   Action fees
   
152.210   Land use action costs
Development Guidelines
   
152.225   Purpose
   
152.226   Weak foundation soils
   
152.227   Discharge of sediment or water
   
152.228   Affected areas
   
152.229   Geologic permit required
   
152.230   Permit procedures
   
152.231   Specific requirements for geologic hazard reports
   
152.232   Determination of compliance
   
152.233   Provisions for additional information
   
152.234   Calculation of coastal setbacks
   
152.235   Prohibited activities in coastal setbacks
Land Division
   
152.250   Purpose
   
152.251   Exceptions for planned developments
   
152.252   Approval of partitions
   
152.253   Approval of subdivisions
   
152.254   General requirements and minimum standards of development design
   
152.255   Transportation impact study (TIS)
   
152.256   Dedication of public streets application
   
152.257   Review
   
152.258   Approval
   
152.259   Procedure for ensuring completion of roads and/or utilities in
subdivisions and partitions
   
152.260   Street width in subdivisions and partitions
   
152.261   Street improvements in subdivisions and partitions
   
152.262   Procedure for subdividing, partitioning, or replatting land
   
152.263   Plat requirements
   
152.264   Standards and procedures for property line adjustments
   
152.265   Property line adjustments in subdivisions and partitions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Depoe Bay Zoning Ordinance of
1975, as amended.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to assist in carrying out the Comprehensive Plan for the
city.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. The way or means by which pedestrians and/or vehicles enter and
leave property.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure subordinate and normally
incidental to the main use of a property and located on the same lot as the
main use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate and normally incidental to the main use of
a property and located on the same lot as the main use.
   AIRPORT. A tract of land or water that is maintained for the landing and
take off of aircraft and for receiving and discharging passengers and cargo and
the repair, storage, and supplying of aircraft.
   ALLEY. A public way, providing a secondary means of access to property.
   ALTER. To change any of the supporting members of a building or structure,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of a decision.
   AQUACULTURE. The raising, feeding, planting, and harvesting of fish,
shellfish, or marine plants, including facilities necessary to engage in the
use.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
      (1)   A designated AO or AH Zone on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
Wherein base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly defined
channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
      (2)   AO is characterized as sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on maps always
includes the letter A or V.
   AUTOMOBILE.
      (1)   REPAIR GARAGE. A use providing for the major repair and maintenance
of motor vehicles and includes any mechanical and body work, straightening of
body parts, painting, welding, or storage of motor vehicles not in operating
condition.
      (2)   SERVICE STATION. Any premises used for supplying gasoline, oil,
minor accessories, and services, excluding body and fender repair, for
automobiles at retail direct to the customer.
      (3)   WRECKING YARD. Any property where two or more vehicles not in
running condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation; or any land, building, or structure used for the
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or the parts thereof.
   BASE FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which has less than one-half of its height
measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the
adjoining ground, and not deemed a story unless the ceiling is six feet or more
above the grade.
   BASEMENT (FLOOD HAZARD ZONE). Any area of the building having its floor
subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
   BLOCK. An area of land which contains one or more tax lots and which is
normally bounded on all sides by streets. A BLOCK must be bounded on at least
one side by a street, and may be bounded on the remaining sides by streets,
unsubdivided land, streams, the ocean, or any combination thereof.
   BOUNDARY LINE. The line defining the perimeter of a lot, parcel, area, or
tract of land.
      (1)   FRONT LINE. The BOUNDARY LINE separating the lot or parcel from the
street, other than an alley. In the case of a corner lot or parcel, the
shortest BOUNDARY LINE along a street, other than an alley, or in the case of a
lot or parcel which does not front directly upon a public street, that line
toward which most houses in the immediate area face.
      (2)   REAR LINE. A BOUNDARY LINE which is opposite and most distant from
the front line. In the case of an irregular, triangular, or other shaped lot or
parcel, a line which is a minimum of ten feet in length, parallel to and at
maximum distance from the front line, connecting at least two side lines.
      (3)   SIDE LINE. Any BOUNDARY LINE not a front or rear line.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not a part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. A structure built or assembled for the support, shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, or property.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.
      (1)   ESTABLISHING SETBACKS. The setback from structures to property
lines shall be based on the height of the building on the side in question. The
height of the side shall be measured from the lowest grade to the highest point
of the building.
      (2)   HEIGHT LIMITATION. On all lots, except those described in division
(3) below, the height of a building is the vertical distance above the lowest
finished grade measured to the highest point of the building.
      (3)   HEIGHT LIMITATION ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS WITH 20% SLOPE OR GREATER. On
residential lots where the average pre-construction elevation of the ground
within the building footprint slopes more than 20%, the height is measured from
the average finished grade around the building to the highest point of the
building, or the average pre-construction elevation of the land within the
building footprint to the highest point of the building, whichever results in
the lowest elevation for the top of the building. The property owner is
responsible for submitting documentation of pre-construction elevations.
   BUILT. Created by assembling basic elements such as foundations, floors,
walls, roofs, plumbing, and wiring systems, and the like, by following step-by-
step construction procedures.
   CAMPGROUND. A development providing for transient lodging accommodations and
similar needs resulting from the demand generated by outdoor recreation
activities, and which may include structural improvements, such as covered
cooking areas, lodges, or other group facilities, and cabin or travel trailer
sites designed for temporary occupancy.
   CARPORT. A covered shelter for an automobile open on two or more sides.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for CEMETERY purposes, including columbariums, crematories,
mausoleums, and mortuaries, when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
   CHILD CARE. The care, supervision, and guidance on a regular basis of a
child, unaccompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian, during a part of the
24 hours of the day, with or without compensation.
   CHRISTMAS TREES. Cultured trees:
      (1)   Grown on land used exclusively for that purpose, capable of
preparation by intensive cultivation methods, such as plowing or turning over
the soil;
      (2)   Of a species for which the Department of Revenue requires a “Report
of Christmas Trees Harvested” for purposes of ad valorem tax;
      (3)   Managed to produce trees meeting U.S. No. 2 or better standards for
Christmas trees as specified by the Agriculture Marketing Services of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture; and
      (4)   Evidencing periodic maintenance practices of shearing for Douglas
Fir and pine species, weed and brush control, and one or more of the following
practices: basal pruning, fertilizing, insect and disease control, stump
culture, soil cultivation, and irrigation.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for worship, and which building, together with its
accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. A triangular area at the street or highway corner of a
corner lot, or the alley-street intersection of a lot, the space being defined
by a line across the corner, the ends of which are on the street or alley
right-of-way lines at an equal and specified distance from the corner and
containing no planting, walls, structures, or temporary or permanent
obstruction exceeding three and one-half feet in height above the curb level.
   CLEARING. The removal of vegetation from a site wherein the root system of
the vegetation is disturbed. CLEARING does not include gardening activities.
   CLINIC. A building utilized by persons licensed by the state to treat or
analyze medical or surgical needs of humans on an out-patient basis.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. The area subject to high velocity water, including
but not limited to storm surge or tsunamis. The area is designated on the FIRM
as Zone V1-V30, VE, or V.
   COMMERCIAL FISHING GEAR. Crab traps, fish traps, fishing lures; ropes or
lines pertaining to crab or fish traps, including buoys and floats; plastic
totes or tubs used for storage of line and longline gear; rigging, which
includes poles, extensions, stays, and/or booms, or mast gear from salmon or
tuna fishing; and spools and winches (girdies, power blocks, and occasional
gill net reel), excluding drag nets or gear.
   COMMISSION. Depoe Bay Planning Commission.
   COMMON PROPERTY. A lot(s), parcel, or tract together with the improvements
thereon, the use and enjoyment of which are shared by owners and occupants of
individual building sites in a planned development or standard subdivision.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A facility owned and operated by a governmental agency or
a non-profit community organization, provided that the primary purpose of the
facility is for recreation, social welfare, community improvement, or public
assembly, and further provided that no permanent commercial eating or drinking
facilities shall be operated on the premises.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The adopted Comprehensive Plan for the city as defined
in the applicable latest state statute.
   CONDOMINIUMS. A form of ownership where buildings are subdivided into
individual units such that each owner only owns his or her own unit and the air
space occupied by it. The portion of land upon which the building is situated,
the surrounding grounds, party wails, corridors, services other than those
within independent units, such as electrical, water gas, sewers, and the like,
become joint responsibilities of all the owners. CONDOMINIUMS include any
properties subject to the Oregon Condominiums Act, the applicable statute of
the latest state statute, and being O.R.S. 100.005 et seq.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility accommodating fewer than 13 children for the
purposes of day care in the provider’s home or meeting the definition and
standards as contained in the applicable statute of the latest state statute.
The providers’ children are included for the purposes of this definition.
   DECK; ENCLOSED. A covered attached or unattached structure accessory to the
main use of the property, having no components necessary to the structural
support of the main use.
   DECK; UNENCLOSED. A non-covered attached or unattached structure accessory
to the main use of the property, having no components necessary to the
structural support of the main use.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units within a specified land area.
   DETRIMENTAL. Causing obvious and excessive harm or injury.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change or improvement involving buildings,
structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or
drilling.
   DEVELOPMENT (FLOOD HAZARD ZONE). Any human-made change to improved or
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, clearing, paving, excavation,
or drilling operations.
   DRAINAGEWAYS. The streams, channels, springs, lakes, ponds, reservoirs,
ponding areas, and wetlands indicated in the LWI and the storm water master
plan maps of existing facilities.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof which is owned or occupied in whole
or in part as a residence by one or more families but excluding tourist
accommodations.
   DWELLING; MULTI-FAMILY. A building consisting of three or more dwelling
units with a common roof and common foundation designed and used exclusively
for the occupancy of three or more families living independently of each other
and having housekeeping facilities for each family.
   DWELLING; SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed or used exclusively
for the occupancy of one family and having housekeeping facilities for one
family.
   DWELLING; TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A building consisting of two separate
dwelling units with a common roof, a common wall, or a common foundation
designed and used exclusively for the occupancy of two families living
independently of each other, and having housekeeping facilities for each
family.
   EASEMENT. A non-possessory interest in the real property of another granted
for a specific purpose.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement
of wind and water.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or legal guardianship, plus all foster children, living together as
one housekeeping unit using one kitchen, and providing meals and/or lodging to
not more than two additional persons; or a group of unrelated persons, living
together as one housekeeping unit using one kitchen.
   FAMILY DAY CARE PROVIDER. A day care provider who regularly provides day
care in the provider’s home in the family living quarters.
   FENCE. Consists of either a continuous fence, wall, evergreen planting, or
combination thereof, constructed or planted so as to effectively act as a
screening of view or for security.
   FILL. The deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FISH HABITAT. Wetland and riparian areas upon which fish depend in order to
meet their requirements for spawning, rearing, food supply, and migration.
   FLAG LOT. A lot, the major portion of which has access to a road or street
by means of a narrow strip of land called the “staff.”
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow in inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of run-off of surface waters
from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA; SPECIAL. Areas in the city identified by the Federal
Insurance Administration in the Flood Insurance Study for Depoe Bay, dated
July, 1978, with accompanying FIRM as amended and all other flood prone areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODING ANALYSIS; STEP-BACKWATER. An engineering analysis developed by the
Army Corps of Engineers to evaluate hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces within
the floodplain.
   FLOODING; SHALLOW.
      (1)   Areas where the base flood depth is between one to three feet, a
clearly defined channel does not exist and the path of flooding is not
determinable.
      (2)   Areas of SHALLOW FLOODING are identified on the FIRM as A-O Zones.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area shown on zoning maps for the city as being subject to
inundation by delineation of a base flood as determined by the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers or other means, or in absence of such delineation, subject to
inundation by the highest flood of record in the area as determined by the
city.
   FLOODPLAIN CROSS-SECTION. A profile of the ground surface perpendicular to
the center line of a stream or tidal estuary.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change or improvement involving
buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation,
or drilling that alters in any way the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside of the
designated floodway.
   FOREST PRODUCTS. Trees or any wood materials suitable for the production of
lumber, sheeting, pulp, firewood, or other commercial forest products, except
trees gown to be Christmas trees as defined in the applicable statute of the
latest state statute.
   FOREST PRODUCTS; PRIMARY USES OF. The use of a portable chipper or stud mill
or other similar methods of initial treatment of a forest product in order to
enable its shipment to market.
   FOREST USE. The use of land for the primary purpose of growing and
harvesting of forest tree species.
   FRACTIONAL OWNERSHIP. Real property where multiple (two or more) people or
entities share the ownership and typically gives the owners certain privileges,
such as a number of days or weeks when they can use the property. In
residential zones, a FRACTIONAL OWNERSHIP shall not be operated as a tourist
accommodation or for transient or short-term occupancy, such as, if the periods
of occupancy by any person are less than 30 consecutive days and the
arrangement provides consideration to the operator.
   GRADE (GROUND LEVEL). The average elevation of the finished ground elevation
at the centers of all walls of a building.
   GRADE; FINISHED. The finished surface of the ground at the building
perimeter once all grade alteration is completed.
   GRADING. The process of changing the topography of the ground surface.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for working, sleeping, eating, cooking,
recreation, or other living purpose.
   HARBOR COMMISSION. The Harbor Commission of the city.
   HARDSHIP. A situation or circumstance which creates or causes unusually hard
circumstances of conditions for the applicant or property owner and which do
not arise from the applicant’s or property owner’s own conduct.
   HIGH WATER LINE OR MARK. The high water elevation as shown on the County
Assessor’s records, or as determined by the County Surveyor, based upon the
line where normal high water elevation results in a pronounced change in
vegetation characteristics.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The regular or continuing use of a dwelling for business
purposes, which business use is incidental and subordinate to the residential
use of the dwelling and which is approved under §§
152.130 through
152.136 of this chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION; TRANSPARENT. The regular or continuing use of a dwelling
for business purposes, which business use is customarily incidental and
subordinate to the residential use of the dwelling, involving the sale of goods
and/or services, or creation of handicrafts, artwork, documents, or any other
form of work product, provided that the sale, service, or process of creation
of product meets the following standards:
      (1)   No business related vehicular or pedestrian traffic, including
customers or delivery persons (other than U.S. mail or package delivery
services);
      (2)   No on-premise sign identifying the business and no off-premise sign
identifying the street address of the business;
      (3)   No noise, lights, dust, smoke, odors, or electromagnetic
frequencies generated which interfere with surrounding residential or
commercial uses, such as, telephone, television, radio, or computer;
      (4)   No commercial vehicles, such as trucks, vans, or trailers parked on
the premises or within two blocks on the street which identifies the business;
      (5)   No storage or use of any materials which present an increased risk
of hazard or danger to the dwelling, the premises, or surrounding structures as
compared to domestic use products found within dwellings, such as, explosion,
pollution generation, and fire; and
      (6)   A city business license is obtained and maintained in good standing
for the location.
   HOMEOWNER’S ASSOCIATION. An incorporated organization operating under a
recorded land agreement through which each lot owner in a planned development
or other described land area is automatically a member, and each lot is
automatically subject to a charge for a proportionate share of the expenses for
the organization’s activities, such as maintaining a common property.
   HORTICULTURE. The cultivation of plants, garden crops, trees, and/or nursery
stock.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment which provides sleeping and eating facilities to
persons receiving medical, obstetrical, or surgical care with nursing service
on a continuous basis.
   JUNK YARD. Any property utilized for breaking up, dismantling, sorting,
storing, distributing, buying, or selling of any scrap waste material, junk, or
used equipment or machinery of any nature.
   KENNEL. A lot or building which provides for the keeping of four or more
dogs, cats, or animals at least four months of age where such animals are kept
commercially for board, propagation, training, or sale.
   LIVESTOCK. Domestic animals and fowl of types customarily raised or kept on
farms for profit or other purposes. This definition does not include household
pets, such as dogs or cats. For purposes of this chapter, the definition of
farm and farm use shall be as stated in the applicable statute of the latest
state statute.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot or parcel with a
building or use, or contiguous to a group of buildings or uses, for the
temporary parking of a vehicle while loading or unloading persons, merchandise,
or materials, and which space or berth abuts upon a street, alley, or other
appropriate means of access.
   LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces
as are herein required. LOTS shall have frontage on a public street or easement
approved by the city.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive
of streets or easements of access to other property. The staff portion of a
flag lot shall not be used in computing the size or area of the lot for zoning
or building purposes.
   LOT CORNER. A lot abutting on two or more streets other than an alley, at
their intersection. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be
considered a CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the
side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of
less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purposes of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to a street other than an
alley shall be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated
under yards in this section.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE; FRONT. The property line separating the lot from the street, other
than an alley. In the case of a corner lot, the shortest property line along a
street, other than an alley, or, in a case where the lot does not front
directly upon a public street, that lot line toward which most houses in the
immediate area face.
   LOT LINE; REAR. The lot line or lines opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular, or other shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot parallel to and at a maximum distance
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE; SIDE. Any lot line or lines not a front or rear lot line. An
interior SIDE LOT LINE is a lot line common to more than one lot or to the lot
and an alley; an exterior SIDE LOT LINE is not a lot line common to the lot and
a street other than an alley.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any unit of land created as follows:
      (1)   A lot in a platted subdivision;
      (2)   A lot created by minor or major land partitioning;
      (3)   A unit of land for which a survey was filed and which conformed to
all applicable regulations at the time of filing; or
      (4)   A unit of land described by a deed, or by metes and bounds,
provided, however, that contiguous units of land so created and under the same
ownership and not conforming to a minimum parcel size required by the current
zoning shall be considered one lot of record.
   LOT OF RECORD; NON-CONFORMING. A parcel of land which lawfully existed as a
lot in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time of
creation, but which, because of the application of a subsequent zoning
ordinance, no longer conforms to the lot dimension requirements for the zoning
district in which it is located.
   LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
measured perpendicular to a line connecting the mid points of the front and
rear lot lines.
   LOT; INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOT; THROUGH. An interior lot abutting on streets, other than an alley, or
both of the opposite, exterior lot lines.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for the
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements.
   MANAGER/OWNER/CARETAKER RESIDENCE. A residence, secondary to the main use of
the property, for the sole purpose of providing living quarters for the owner,
operator, or caretaker of a new or on-going commercial or industrial
enterprise.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
      (1)   As defined by the applicable state statute.
         (a)   MOBILE HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed between January 1, 1962, and June 15, 1976, and met the
construction requirements of Oregon Mobile Home Law in effect at the time of
construction.
         (b)   RESIDENTIAL TRAILER. A structure constructed for movement on the
public highways that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes, and
that was constructed before January 1, 1962.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not mean any building or structure
subject to the Structural Specialty Code adopted pursuant to O.R.S. 455.100 to
455.450 or any unit identified as a recreational vehicle by the manufacturer or
qualifying as a “recreational vehicle” as defined by state law, O.R.S. 446.003.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes, and that was
constructed in accordance with the federal manufactured housing construction
and safety standards regulations in effect at the time of construction.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (FLOOD HAZARD ZONE). A structure, transportable in one or
more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities. For floodplain management purposes, MANUFACTURED HOME also includes
park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (M.S.L.) The average height of the surface of the sea for all
stages of the tide.
   MINE (QUARRY). Premises from which any rock, sand, gravel, stone, topsoil,
clay, mud, peat, or other mineral is removed or excavated as an industrial or
commercial operation, and exclusive of excavating and grading for streets and
roads and the process of grading a lot preparatory to the construction of a
building for which a permit has been issued by a public agency.
   MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK. A facility where four or more
manufactured dwellings are located within 500 feet of one another on a lot,
tract, or parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which
is to rent space or keep space for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid
or to be paid for the rental or use of facilities or to offer space free in
connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person. MOBILE HOME/
MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK does not include a lot or lots located within a
subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by no more than one
manufactured dwelling per lot if the subdivision or partition was approved by
the city.
   MOBILE VENDING STAND. A structure, cart, trailer, or stand which is movable
from place to place, and is used for the purpose of selling foods, soft drinks,
and other non-alcoholic beverages to the public directly or indirectly and is
equipped to dispense food or beverage and/or prepare the food or beverage for
consumption. A MOBILE VENDING STAND does not contain space for customers to
enter the stand to purchase or consume products.
   NATIVE PLANTS; NATIVE VEGETATION. Plant species that grow and propagate
themselves in coastal shoreland areas along the central Oregon coast through
natural processes, are adapted to the weather, soils, and hydrology of the
area, and which have evolved in the area or been introduced to the area by
natural causes. These plant species are to be distinguished from plant species
which have been deliberately or accidentally imported or introduced from other
areas by humans or human activities.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures with respect to which the START OF CONSTRUCTION
has commenced.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Structure or land, or structure and land in
combination, which was lawfully established in compliance with all applicable
ordinances and laws, but which because of the application of a subsequent
zoning ordinance, no longer conforms to the setback, height, maximum lot
coverage or size, or other building development requirements of this chapter.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Use of structure or land, or structure and land in
combination which was lawfully established in compliance with all applicable
ordinances and laws, but which, because of the application of subsequent zoning
ordinance, no longer conforms to the use requirements for the zoning district
in which it is located.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION ACTIVITY. Includes fishing, camping, swimming, clam
digging, hunting, boating, hiking, horseback riding, and similar uses which
require few, if any, related structural improvements.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION DEVELOPMENT. Includes those private structural or other
improvements customarily found in connection with outdoor recreation
activities. Such improvements may include picnic or campground improvements,
riding stables, or organization recreation facilities. Such development
excludes commercial amusement uses, such as miniature golf course, go-cart
tracks, and similar uses.
   OWNER. The OWNER of record of real property as shown on the tax rolls of the
county, or a person who is purchasing a parcel of property under contract.
   PARCEL. A unit of land that is created by division of land.
   PARK. A tract of land set apart and devoted for the purposes of pleasure,
recreation, and open space for the general public.
   PARKING AREA. A designated area containing four or more parking spaces that
has access and provides maneuvering area external of the road right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. An off-street enclosed or unenclosed surfaced area meeting
minimum ordinance requirements exclusive of maneuvering and access area,
permanently reserved for the temporary storage of one automobile, connected
with a street or alley which affords access for automobiles.
   PARTITION. Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land
partitioned as defined in the applicable statute of the latest state statute.
   PARTITION LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into two or three parcels
within a calendar year, but does not include:
      (1)   A division of land resulting from a lien foreclosure, foreclosure
of a recorded contract for sale of real property, or the creation of cemetery
lots;
      (2)   An adjustment of a property line by the relocation of a common
boundary where an additional unit of land is not created and where the existing
unit of land as reduced in size by the adjustment complies with this chapter;
or
      (3)   A sale or grant by a person to a public agency or public body for
state highway, county road, city street, or other right-of-way purposes
provided that such road or right-of-way complies with the Comprehensive Plan
and the applicable state statute.
   PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT. A form of security (such as, bond, letter of credit,
real property security instrument, or security interest in personal property)
acceptable to the city to ensure completion of the conditions of construction,
as required under this chapter.
   PERMIT. A written and approved authorization for any department.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators; or
assigns, or a form of business entity recognized under state law, its heirs or
successors or assigns; or the agent of any of the aforesaid, or any political
subdivisions, agency, board, or bureau of the state.
   PIER. A fixed moorage facility constructed outward from the shoreline.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (P-D). A development in which the applicable subdivision
and zoning restrictions apply to the development as a whole rather than to each
individual lot, and which is approved under §
152.042 of this chapter.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLAT. A final map and other writing containing all the descriptions,
locations, specifications, provisions, and information concerning a partition
or subdivision.
   POND. A small body of intermittent or perennial standing water that is a
persistent feature of the landscape.
   PRE-FABRICATED OR MODULAR DWELLING. A building or sub-assembly which has
been in whole or substantial part manufactured or assembled using closed
construction at an off-site location to be wholly or partially assembled on-
site and constructed in accordance with the State Building Specialty Codes as
defined by state statute, but does not include a manufactured dwelling,
trailer, or recreational vehicle.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The intended and primary use of a structure or parcel of
land.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any corporation, company, individual, association of
individuals, or its lessees, trustees, or receivers, that owns, operates,
manages, or controls all or any part of any plant or equipment for the
conveyance of telephone messages with or without wires, for the transportation
as common carriers or for the production, transmission, delivery, or furnishing
of heat, light, water, or power, directly or indirectly to the public.
   RECREATION VEHICLE (RV). A temporary shelter for travel and recreation
purposes, which is licensed as a motor home, camper, or travel trailer.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A development designed primarily for transient
service in which travel trailers, pick-up campers, tent trailers, and self-
propelled motorized vehicles are parked and used for the purpose of supplying
to the public a temporary location while traveling, vacationing, or recreating.
   REPLAT. A map of the reconfiguration of lots and easements of a recorded
subdivision or partition or partition plat and other writing containing all the
descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications, and provisions and
information concerning a recorded subdivision.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land one-foot in width abutting a road for the
purpose of controlling access.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Facility licensed by or under the authority of the
Department of Human Resources under the applicable state statute.
   RESIDENTIAL HOME. A residence, except nursing homes, operated as a group
home for mentally or physically handicapped persons which may require the
assistance of on-site caregivers.
   RESORT. Any area of land or water used for open-land commercial or private
recreation where tourist accommodation and related tourist services are
provided in conjunction with such recreational use.
   RETAIL SERVICES. Personal or business service establishments. such as a
barber or beauty shop, laundry or dry cleaning establishment, tailor shop, or
similar establishment.
   RETAINING WALL. A wall constructed for the purpose of holding back soil. The
height of such a wall is measured from the base of the footing to the top of
the wall.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land reserved to allow access through or to a
parcel of land for purposes such as roads, paths, drainage, and utilities.
   RIPARIAN AREA. The area adjacent to a river, lake, or stream, consisting of
the area of transition from an aquatic ecosystem to a terrestrial ecosystem.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. Includes the water areas, fish habitat, adjacent riparian
areas, and wetlands within the riparian area boundary.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR BOUNDARY.
      (1)   An imaginary line that lies 50 feet inland (or upland), measured on
the horizontal, from the top of the bank of an inland stream, or where no bank
is discernible, that lies 50 feet inland from the outer edge of non-aquatic
vegetation.
      (2)   Where a wetland or pond is contiguous to a stream, the riparian
area shall be measured 50 feet inland (or upland) from the upland edge of the
wetland or pond. Where a wetland or pond is not contiguous to a stream, the
riparian area shall be measured 25 feet inland (or upland) from the upland edge
of the wetland or pond.
   RIPARIAN VEGETATION ZONE (OCEAN AND ESTUARY). The area between the point of
mean higher high water and 50 feet landward measured on the horizontal.
   ROAD (STREET). A public or private way created to provide vehicular access
to one or more lots, parcels, areas, or tracts of land, excluding a private way
that is created to provide access to such land in conjunction with its use for
forestry, mining, or agricultural purposes and excluding pedestrian pathways
less than eight feet in width.
      (1)   ARTERIAL OR MAJOR HIGHWAY. A street designed to carry traffic from
one community to another, to carry traffic to and from major traffic
generators, and to carry through traffic.
      (2)   COLLECTOR OR SECONDARY STREET. A street designed to carry traffic
between minor streets and the arterial system, to function as primary traffic
carriers within a neighborhood, to carry traffic to local traffic generators,
and in commercial and industrial areas, provide access to commercial and
industrial properties.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC OR DEAD-END STREET. A minor street with only one outlet
which provides a vehicular turn-around.
      (4)   FOREST ROAD. A road being used or maintained in conjunction with
forest use.
      (5)   MINOR STREETS. A street designed to provide access to abutting
residential property with only incidental service to through traffic.
      (6)   PRIVATE ROAD. A road created by easement.
      (7)   PUBLIC ROAD. A road dedicated for public use.
      (8)   RURAL ROAD. A road that provides general access to a large area
serving rural, residential, farming, forestry, and recreational needs.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. The disposal of refuse by a method of compaction approved
by the Department of Environmental Quality and covering at the end of each
day’s operation with earth to prevent hazards to the public health and safety
and to prevent the creation of nuisances.
   SCHOOL. Any institution for learning, whether public or private, meeting
state accreditation standards.
   SETBACK. Is the horizontal distance measured perpendicularly from the lot
line to the nearest point of any structure on the lot or parcel.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure,
or land, and which directs attention a product, place, activity, person,
institution, or business. Each display surface of a SIGN other than two
surfaces parallel and back to back on the same structure shall be considered a
SIGN.
   SKIRT. A durable all-weather material having a finished exterior surface
surrounding a mobile home and effectively screening the under-carriage from
view.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided
that actual START OF CONSTRUCTION or substantial improvement, repair,
reconstruction, placement, or other improvement occurs within 180 days of the
permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION requires at least the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, or the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation. START OF CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; the installation of streets and/or walkways;
excavation for basement, footing, piers, or foundation, or the erection of
temporary forms; or the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
   STORY. The portion of a building including between a floor and the ceiling
next above it, exclusive of a basement.
   STREAM. A channel, such as a river or creek that carries flowing surface
water, including perennial streams and intermittent streams with defined
channels, and excluding human-made irrigation and drainage channels.
   STREET. See ROAD.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person who travels from street to street on public
rights-of-way, streets, or other public property with food, beverages, flowers,
balloons, or other similar items and offers them for sale.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a building
including foundations, bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams, or
girders, or any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Something constructed or built and having a fixed base on, or
fixed connection to, the ground or another structure.
   STRUCTURE (FLOOD HAZARD ZONE). A walled and roofed building (including a gas
or liquid storage tank) that is above ground.
   SUBDIVIDE LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots
within a calendar year when such an area or tract of land exists as a unit or
contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the beginning of a year.
   SUBDIVISION. An area or tract of land divided into four or more lots within
a calendar year.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE (FLOOD HAZARD ZONE). Damage sustained by a structure from
any cause as a result of which the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the fair market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure which exceeds 50% of the assessed value of the structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT (FLOOD HAZARD ZONE).
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the assessed value of the structure as
determined by a licensed appraiser, either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or State Inventory of Historic Places.
   TENTATIVE PLAN. A preliminary diagram showing the design of a proposed
partition or subdivision, together with any writing and information that may be
required.
   TIME-SHARE INTEREST.
      (1)   Any interest, direct or indirect, in a time-share project. For the
purposes of determining whether property, or any part thereof, has been divided
into 11 or more undivided interests, and shall thereby constitute a time-share
project, there shall be included in the determination of the number of such
interests outstanding every person having any form of right, contractual or
otherwise, pursuant to which the holder shall have the right to use or
possession such portion of such real property or of any improvement thereon,
including any interest in any lot, parcel, condominium, or leasehold, whether
or not such interest shall constitute an undivided interest in real property or
whether the same shall be styled a membership, leasehold, or other contractual
agreement whereby a right to possession is created.
      (2)   For the purposes hereof, an interest held in common by more than
one person or entity shall not be deemed to constitute more than one separate
interest unless the holders thereof shall have the right, directly or
indirectly, whether by written or oral agreement, to use, possess, or enjoy
such interest at separate times, or by one of the common owners of such
interests. Any interest held solely by a husband and wife as tenants by the
entirety, or which is held as joint tenants with right of survivorship solely
by brothers and sisters, or solely by husband and wife and their children shall
be presumed to constitute but a single interest; interests held in common by
other persons shall be presumed to constitute separate interests, which
prescription may be rebutted by evidence that the holders of such interests
have and enjoy a common right of possession, and do not have the right to
possession or use of the premises at separate times or to the exclusion of
other holders of such interest.
   TIME-SHARE PROJECT.
      (1)   Any real property and/or improvements upon real property which are
subject to any plan or arrangement such that the right to the use and
possession of one or more dwelling units thereof shall have been divided into
11 or more interests whereby the holder of such an interest shall have a right
to the possession of all or part of one part of the premises subject to such
interest, to the exclusion of persons holding other interests therein during
any period, whether annually recurring or not.
      (2)   TIME-SHARE PROJECTS shall include any written or oral, whereby 11
or more common owners shall divide the right to the use or possession of said
premises such that each such owner shall have a period during which such owner
shall have the right to the use of such premises to the exclusion of others,
whether or not such right shall be expressly designated as a separate ownership
interest, and shall also include all such real property and improvements or
interests therein as any part of which may be owned or possessed by a single
entity, such as a corporation or partnership, if such entity shall hold title
in trust or otherwise subject to an agreement or arrangement whereby 11 or more
possesory interests are created.
      (3)   TIME-SHARE PROJECT shall not include a tenancy in common, as such a
tenancy exists at common law, if unmodified by any restrictive covenants or
other agreement whereby such common tenants have or may claim or exercise the
right to exclusive use, occupancy, or possession of the premise to the
exclusion of other tenants as, for instance, where such tenants in common may
hold property for business or investment purposes.
   TIME-SHARE PROJECT; PRE-EXISTING. A time-share project, the outstanding
interests in which have already been created, or with respect to which a notice
of intent (such as currently required by the applicable state statute) as
required by law or by administrative regulations disclosing the nature and
number of the interest to be created therein has been filed with the State Real
Estate Division on or prior to the effective date of the adoption of this
chapter. Such a PRE-EXISTING TIME-SHARE PROJECT shall not authorize the
creation of additional interests or the subdivision of any existing interests
or the expansion of such project beyond that which existed or was so disclosed
at or prior to the effective date of the adoption of this chapter, except and
unless the same shall conform and comply with all applicable requirements of
this chapter and any other applicable ordinances, regulations, or statutes.
   TOURIST ACCOMMODATION.
      (1)   A structure or building, or part of a structure or building,
occupied or designed for occupancy by transients for lodging or sleeping,
regardless of whether or not non-lodging goods, services, or meals are included
as a part of the occupancy, and for which the transient lodging within the
structure:
         (a)   Is for the direct or indirect compensation of the owner, lessee,
or operator of the structure;
         (b)   Is intended to result in the pecuniary benefit to the owner,
lessee, or operator of the structure; or
         (c)   Requires the owner, lessee, or operator of the structure to
either obtain a city business license or collect transient room taxes under
city ordinances.
      (2)   TOURIST ACCOMMODATION shall include the use and terms “bed and
breakfast establishment,” “hotel,” “motel,” “inn,” “vacation rental,” or any
other form of transient or short-term occupancy of a structure.
   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY. The use of a structure or building, or part of a
structure or building, by a transient.
   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY BUSINESS. The carrying on, operation, or suffering the
use of a structure or building, by a transient for lodging or sleeping
purposes, regardless of whether or not non-lodging goods, services, or meals
are included as a part of the occupancy, and for which the transient lodging
within the structure:
      (1)   Is for the direct or indirect compensation of the owner, lessee, or
operator of the structure;
      (2)   Is intended to result in the pecuniary benefit to the owner,
lessee, or operator of the structure; or
      (3)   Requires the owner, lessee, or operator of the structure to either
obtain a city business license or collect transient room taxes under city
ordinances.
   TRANSIENT OR SHORT-TERM OCCUPANCY. Any person who occupies or is entitled to
occupy a structure or building, or portion thereof, for a period of less than
30 calendar days, counting portions of days as full days, and the person gives
direct or indirect compensation to the owner, lessee, or operator of the
structure for the occupancy or for which the occupancy is intended to assist in
producing or results in the pecuniary benefit to the owner, lessee, or operator
of the structure. CONSIDERATION means compensation, money, rent, or other
bargained for consideration given in return for occupancy, possession, or use
of real property.
   UNIT OF OWNERSHIP. An area or tract of land described by a deed or by metes
and bounds as a single entity.
   USE. The purpose for which a structure is designed, arranged, or intended,
or for which land is maintained or occupied.
   VACATION RENTAL DWELLING. A building or portion thereof which is owned or
occupied in whole or in part as a primary or secondary residence and is used by
transients for lodging or sleeping, and for which the transient lodging within
the structure:
      (1)   Is for the direct or indirect compensation of the owner, lessee, or
operator of the structure;
      (2)   Is intended to result in the pecuniary benefit to owner, lessee, or
operator of the structure; or
      (3)   Requires the owner, lessee, or operator of the structure to either
obtain a city business license or collect transient room taxes under city
ordinances.
   VEGETATION. Plants of all types, including grasses, ground cover, flowers,
bushes, shrubs, and trees.
   WATER AREA. The area between the banks of a lake, pond, river, perennial, or
fish bearing intermittent stream, excluding human-made farm ponds.
   WATER-DEPENDENT. A use or activity which can be carried out only on, in, or
adjacent to water areas because the use requires access to the waterbody for
water-borne transportation, recreation, energy production, or source of water.
   WATER-RELATED. Uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a
waterbody but which provide goods or services that are directly associated with
water-dependent land or waterway use, and which, if not located adjacent to
water, would result in a public loss of quality in the goods or services
offered. Except as necessary for water-dependent or WATER-RELATED uses or
facilities, residences, parking lots, spoil and dump sites, roads and highways,
restaurants, businesses, factories, and trailer parks are not generally
considered dependent on or related to water location needs.
   WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground upward,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   FRONT. A YARD between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the FRONT lot line from the FRONT lot line to the nearest point
of a building. Any yard meeting this definition and abutting on a street other
than an alley, shall be considered a FRONT yard.
      (2)   REAR. A YARD between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the REAR lot line from the REAR lot line, or the mean high
water line when applicable, to the nearest part of the main building.
      (3)   SIDE. A YARD between the front and rear yard measured horizontally
and at right angles  from the SIDE lot line to the nearest point of the main
building.
      (4)   STREET SIDE. A YARD adjacent to a street between the front yard and
the rear lot line measured horizontally and at right angles from the side lot
line to the nearest point of a building.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 130, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 178, passed
6-1-1992; Ord. 185, passed 12-22-1992; Ord. 187, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 234,
passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 236, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 261, passed 1-6-2003; Ord.
256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 257, passed 5-4-2010; Ord. 268, passed 11-2-2004;
Ord. 278, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010; Ord. 327-21, passed 4-
20-2021)
§ 152.004 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A lot may be used and a structure or part of a structure may be
constructed, altered, occupied, or used only as this chapter permits.
   (B)   No lot area, yard, off-street parking or loading area, or other open
space existing on or after the effective date of this chapter shall be reduced
below the minimum required for it by this chapter.
   (C)   No lot area, yard, off-street parking or loading area, or other
required open space for one use shall be used as the required yard, off-street
parking or loading area, or other required open space for another use.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.005 CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following are hereby established in
the city.
Zones Abbreviated Designation Map Designation
Zones                                  Abbreviated Designation Map Designation
   Residential
Residential Zone R-1                   R-1                     R-1
Residential Zone R-2                   R-2                     R-2
Residential Zone R-3                   R-3                     R-3
Residential Zone R-4                   R-4                     R-4
Residential Zone R-5                   R-5                     R-5
   Commercial Zones
Retail Commercial C-1                  C-1                     C-1
   Industrial Zones
Light Industrial Zone L-I              L-I                     L-I
   Marine Zones
Marine Commercial Zone M-C             M-C                     M-C
Planned Marine and Recreation Zone M-P M-P                     M-P
Marine Waterway Zone M-W               M-W                     M-W
   Natural Resource Zones
Timber Conservation Zone T-C           T-C                     T-C
   Planned Development Zones
Planned Development Zone P-D           P-D                     P-D
 
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980)
§ 152.006 LOCATION OF ZONES.
   (A)   The boundaries for the zones listed in this chapter are marked as such
with the area or areas of every zone indicated on maps entitled “Exhibit B,
Depoe Bay, Oregon, Zoning,” the original of which is on file in the office of
the City Recorder, in a book or place kept for that purpose and open to public
inspection and counterparts of which the map is on file in the city hall and
bears the same date as the passage of this chapter and the number of this
chapter and said map having endorsed thereon the signatures of the Mayor and
the City Recorder, and said map and any other information pertaining thereto,
such as symbols, indications, notations, references, and other information
which appear on said map are hereby incorporated into and made a part of this
chapter as much as if said matters and information set forth on and by said
maps were fully described herein.
   (B)   Zone boundaries, zone modifications, additions, and reclassifications
may be made at subsequent times and shall be made by amendment to this chapter,
in accordance with the provisions of the chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980)
§ 152.007 ZONING MAPS.
   Maps of the zones or amendments to the location of zones adopted pursuant to
§
152.006 of this subchapter shall be prepared by the authority of the Planning
Commission or by a modification by the City Council to the map amendment so
prepared. The map or amendment shall be dated with the effective date of the
ordinance that adopts the amendment, together with the signatures of the Mayor,
City Recorder, and the ordinance number of the ordinance which made the
modification. A certified print of the said original map and any subsequent map
shall be maintained without change in the office of the City Recorder in the
book or place kept for that purpose; provided, however, that when an ordinance
amends a previous ordinance so as to change the area of the zone on a map
previously filed, the original map may be noted in the margin to show that a
change was made, together with the date of change and the map number or
designation and amending ordinance number.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.008 ZONE BOUNDARIES.
   Unless otherwise specified, zone boundaries are section lines, subdivision
lines, lot lines, center lines of street or railroad rights-of-way or such
lines extended, or other similar lines.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.009 INTERPRETATION.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of this
chapter or of any other ordinances, resolution, or regulation, the provisions
which are more restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.010 REMEDIES.
   In case a structure is, or is proposed to be, located, constructed,
maintained, repaired, altered, or used, or land is, or is proposed to be, used
in violation of this chapter, the structure or land thus in violation shall
constitute a nuisance. The city may, as an alternative to other remedies that
are legally available for enforcing this chapter, institute injunction,
mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate proceedings to prevent, enjoin,
temporarily or permanently, abate, or remove the unlawful locations,
construction, maintenance, repair, alteration, or use.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
USE ZONES
§ 152.025 RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-1.
   In an R-1 Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-1 Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable:
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Manufactured home;
      (3)   Pre-fab heated or modular dwelling;
      (4)   A temporary manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle used for
dwelling purposes during the construction of a permitted use for which a
building permit has been issued, provided the temporary manufactured dwelling
or recreational vehicle:
         (a)   Is located during the time the construction is underway; and
         (b)   Will not remain more than one year from date of placement or 30
days following substantial completion, whichever is earlier.
      (5)   Agricultural use of land provided that no livestock shall be raised
or kept on the premises and provided further that no commercial structure shall
be constructed or maintained on the premises;
      (6)   Recreational vehicle (unoccupied) or boat, stored on a lot in
combination with an approved building;
      (7)   Residential homes;
      (8)   Family day care provider;
      (9)   Transparent occupation; and
      (10)   Commercial fishing gear storage at the gear owner’s dwelling or
adjacent lot under the same ownership. The gear must be stored in a neat and
orderly manner and must be non-toxic, non-hazardous, and cause no odor off-
site.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an R-1 Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable:
      (1)   Cemetery;
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Day nursery, nursery school, kindergarten, or similar facility;
      (5)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (6)   Home occupation;
      (7)   Golf course or country club, but excluding golf driving range,
miniature golf course, or similar facility;
      (8)   Private non-commercial recreation club, such as tennis, swimming,
or archery club, but excluding commercial amusement or recreation enterprises;
      (9)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (10)   Public school or private school offering curricula similar to
public school;
      (11)   Public or private utility facility;
      (12)   Radio or television transmitter or tower; and
      (13)   Solid waste disposal transfer station.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136, in an R-1 Zone, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Lot size and dimension. The minimum lot size and dimension in an R-
1 Zone shall be as follows:
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square feet;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front lot line shall be 50 feet for
an interior lot and 55 feet for a corner lot, except flag lots. The staff of a
flag lot shall have a minimum width and frontage of not less than 25 feet;
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet; and
         (d)   Lot area for ocean front lots or lots with intervening ownership
which does not prevent coastal erosion from progressive deterioration of the
property shall be determined by the amount of area from the line of mean high
water to the landward extent of the property.
      (2)   Yards. The minimum yard requirements in the R-1 Zone shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet;
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of either five feet or one
foot for each three feet of building height, whichever is the greater;
         (c)   The street side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet except this
may be reduced by one foot for each foot the average lot width is less than 60
feet, however, no street side yard shall be less than ten feet (see LOT WIDTH
in §
152.003 of this chapter for method of calculation);
         (d)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet, except that on a
corner lot, it shall be a minimum of either five feet or one foot for each
three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the greater; and
         (e)   No structure shall be located closer than 60 feet from the
centerline of any state highway.
      (3)   Building height. No building in the R-1 Zone shall exceed a height
of 30 feet.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 187, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 236, passed
12-16-1996; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 268, passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 287,
passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999 
§ 152.026 RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-2.
   In an R-2 Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-2 Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136 where applicable:
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Manufactured home;
      (3)   A temporary manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle used for
dwelling purposes during the construction of a permitted use for which a
building permit has been issued, provided the temporary manufactured dwelling
or recreational vehicle:
         (a)   Is located during the time the construction is underway; and
         (b)   Will not remain more than one year from date of placement or 30
days following substantial completion, whichever is earlier.
      (4)   Agricultural use of land provided that no livestock shall be raised
or kept on the premises and provided further than no commercial structure shall
be constructed or maintained on the premises;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle (unoccupied) or boat, stored on a lot in
combination with an approved building;
      (6)   Two-family dwelling;
      (7)   Pre-fab heated or modular dwelling;
      (8)   Residential homes;
      (9)   Family day care provider;
      (10)   Transparent occupation; and
      (11)   Commercial fishing gear storage at the gear owner’s dwelling or
adjacent lot under the same ownership. The gear must be stored in a neat and
orderly manner and must be non-toxic, non-hazardous, and cause no odor off-
site.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an R-2 Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable.
      (1)   Cemetery;
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Day nursery, nursery school, kindergarten, or similar facility;
      (5)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (6)   Home occupation;
      (7)   Golf course or country club, but excluding golf driving range,
miniature golf course, or similar facility;
      (8)   Private non-commercial recreation club, such as tennis, swimming,
or archery club, but excluding commercial amusement or recreation enterprises;
      (9)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (10)   Public school or private school offering curricula similar to
public school;
      (11)   Public or private utility facility;
      (12)   Radio or television transmitter or tower; and
      (13)   Solid waste disposal transfer station.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136 in an R-2 Zone, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Lot size and dimension. The minimum lot size and dimensions in an
R-2 Zone shall be as follows:
         (a)   The lot area shall be 5,000 square feet for a one-family
dwelling and 10,000 square feet for a two-family dwelling;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front lot line shall be 50 feet for
an interior lot and 55 feet for a corner lot, except flag lots. The staff of a
flag lot shall have a minimum width and frontage of not less than 25 feet;
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet; and
         (d)   Lot area for ocean front lots or lots with intervening ownership
which does not prevent coastal erosion from progressive deterioration of the
property shall be determined by the amount of area from the line of mean high
water to the landward extent of the property.
      (2)   Yards. The minimum yard requirements in the R-2 Zone shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet;
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of either five feet or one
foot for each three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the
greater;
         (c)   The street side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet. except this
may be reduced by one foot for each foot the average lot width is less than 60
feet, however, no street side yard shall be less than ten feet (see LOT WIDTH
in §
152.003 of this chapter for method of calculation);
         (d)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet, except that on a
corner lot, it shall be a minimum of either five feet or one foot for each
three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the greater; and
         (e)   No structure shall be located closer than 60 feet from the
center line of any state highway.
      (3)   Building height. No building in the R-2 Zone shall exceed a height
of 30 feet.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 187, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 236, passed
12-16-1996; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 268, passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 287,
passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.027 RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-3.
   In an R-3 Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-3 Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Manufactured home, including single-wide mobile homes;
      (3)   A temporary manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle used for
dwelling purposes during the construction of a permitted use for which a
building permit has been issued, provided the temporary manufactured dwelling
or recreational vehicle:
         (a)   Is located during the time the construction is underway; and
         (b)   Will not remain more than one year from date of placement or 30
days following substantial completion, whichever is earlier.
      (4)   Agricultural use of land provided that no livestock shall be raised
or kept on the premises and provided further that no commercial structure shall
be constructed or maintained on the premises;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle (unoccupied) or boat, stored on a lot in
combination with an approved building;
      (6)   Pre-fabricated or modular dwelling;
      (7)   Two-family dwelling;
      (8)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (9)   Condominiums;
      (10)   Residential facility;
      (11)   Residential homes;
      (12)   Family day care provider;
      (13)   Transparent occupation; and
      (14)   Commercial fishing gear storage at the gear owner’s dwelling or
adjacent lot under the same ownership. The gear must be stored in a neat and
orderly manner and must be non-toxic, non-hazardous, and cause no odor off-
site.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an R-3 Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076, 152.115 through 152.117, 152.130 through 152.136, and 152.225 through
152.235 where applicable:
      (1)   Cemetery;
      (2)   Church, non-profit religious, or philanthropic institution;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Day nursery, nursery school, kindergarten, or similar facility;
      (5)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (6)   Home occupation;
      (7)   Golf course or country club, but excluding golf driving range,
miniature golf course, or similar facility;
      (8)   Private non-commercial recreation club, such as tennis, swimming,
or archery club, but excluding commercial amusement or recreation enterprises;
      (9)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (10)   Public school or private school offering curricula similar to
public school;
      (11)   Public or private utility facility;
      (12)   Radio or television transmitter or tower;
      (13)   Solid waste disposal transfer station;
      (14)   Mobile home park/manufactured dwelling park; and
      (15)   Recreation vehicles on individual lots.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136 in an R-3 Zone, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Lot size and dimensions. The minimum lot size and dimensions in an
R-3 Zone shall be as follows:
         (a)   The lot area shall be 5,000 square feet for a one-family
dwelling. The minimum lot area shall be 3,750 square feet per dwelling unit for
a multi-family dwelling;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front lot line shall be 50 feet for
an interior lot and 55 feet for a corner lot, except flag lots. The staff of a
flag lot shall have a minimum width and frontage of not less than 25 feet;
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet; and
         (d)   Lot area for ocean front lots with intervening ownership which
does not prevent coastal erosion from progressive deterioration of the property
shall be determined by the amount of area from the line of mean high water to
the landward extent of the property.
      (2)   Yards. The minimum yard requirements in the R-3 Zone shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet;
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of either five feet or one
foot for each three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the
greater;
         (c)   The street side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet, except this
may be reduced by one foot for each foot the average lot width is less than 60
feet, however, no street side yard shall be less than ten feet (see LOT WIDTH
in § 152.003 of this chapter for method of calculation);
         (d)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet, except that on a
corner lot, it shall be a minimum of either five feet or one foot for each
three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the greater; and
         (d)   No structure shall be located closer than 60 feet from the
center line of any state highway.
      (3)   Building height. No building in the R-3 Zone shall exceed a height
of 30 feet.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 130, passed 4-6-
1987; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed
12-2-1991; Ord. 187, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 236, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 256,
passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 268, passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.028 RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-4.
   In an R-4 Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-4 Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable:
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Manufactured home;
      (3)   A temporary manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle used for
dwelling purposes during the construction of a permitted use for which a
building permit has been issued, provided the temporary manufactured dwelling
or recreational vehicle:
         (a)   Is located during the time the construction is underway; and
         (b)   Will not remain more than one year from date of placement or 30
days following substantial completion, whichever is earlier.
      (4)   Agricultural use of land provided that no livestock shall be raised
or kept on the premises and provided further than no commercial structure shall
be constructed or maintained on the premises;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle (unoccupied) or boat, stored on a lot in
combination with an approved building;
      (6)   Pre-fabricated or modular dwelling;
      (7)   Two-family dwelling;
      (8)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (9)   Condominiums;
      (10)   Residential facility;
      (11)   Residential homes;
      (12)   Family day care provider;
      (13)   Transparent occupation; and
      (14)   (a)   Commercial fishing gear storage at the gear owner’s dwelling
or adjacent lot under the same ownership.
      (b)   The gear must be stored in a neat and orderly manner and must be
non-toxic, non-hazardous, and cause no odor off-site.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an R-4 Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable:
      (1)   Cemetery;
      (2)   Church, non-profit religious, or philanthropic institution;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Day nursery, nursery school, kindergarten, or similar facility;
      (5)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (6)   Home occupation;
      (7)   Golf course or country club, but excluding golf driving range
miniature golf course, or similar facility;
      (8)   Private non-commercial recreation club, such as tennis, swimming,
or archery club, but excluding commercial amusement or recreation enterprises;
      (9)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (10)   Public school or private school offering curricula similar to
public school;
      (11)   Public or private utility facility;
      (12)   Radio or television transmitter or tower;
      (13)   Solid waste disposal transfer station;
      (14)   Mobile home park/manufactured dwelling park;
      (15)   Retirement home; and
      (16)   Parking area, meeting the requirements of §
152.058 of this chapter.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136 in an R-4 Zone, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Lot size and dimensions. The minimum lot size and dimensions in an
R-4 Zone shall be as follows:
         (a)   The lot area shall be 5,000 square feet for a one-family
dwelling. The minimum lot area for dwelling unit shall be 2,500 square feet for
multi-family dwellings;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front lot line shall be 50 feet for
an interior lot and 55 feet for a corner lot, except flag lots. The staff of a
flag lot shall have a minimum width and frontage of not less than 25 feet;
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet; and
         (d)   Lot area for ocean front lots or lots with intervening ownership
which does not prevent coastal erosion from progressive deterioration of the
property shall be determined by the amount of area from the line of mean high
water to the landward extent of the property.
      (2)   Yards. The minimum yard requirements in the R-4 Zone shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet;
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of either five feet or one
foot for each three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the
greater;
         (c)   The street side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet, except this
may be reduced by one foot for each foot the average lot width is less than 60
feet, however, no street side yard shall be less than ten feet (see LOT WIDTH
in §
152.003 of this chapter for method of calculation);
         (d)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet, except that on a
corner lot, it shall be a minimum of either five feet or one foot for each
three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the greater; and
         (e)   No structure shall be located closer than 60 feet from the
center line of any state highway.
      (3)   Building height. No building in the R-4 Zone shall exceed a height
of 35 feet.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 130, passed 4-6-
1987; Ord. 145, passed 1-3-1989; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed
10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 186, passed 12-22-1992; Ord. 187,
passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 236, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord.
268, passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.029 RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-5.
   In an R-5 Zone, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-5 Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Manufactured home;
      (3)   A temporary manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle used for
dwelling purposes during the construction of a permitted use for which a
building permit has been issued, provided the temporary manufactured dwelling
or recreational vehicle:
         (a)   Is located during the time the construction is underway; and
         (b)   Will not remain more than one year from date of placement or 30
days following substantial completion, whichever is earlier.
      (4)   Agricultural use of land, provided that no livestock shall be
raised or kept on the premises and provided further that no commercial
structure shall be constructed or maintained on the premises;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle (unoccupied) or boat, stored on a lot in
combination with an approved building;
      (6)   Pre-fabricated or modular dwelling;
      (7)   Two-family dwelling;
      (8)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (9)   Retirement home;
      (10)   Condominiums;
      (11)   Residential facility;
      (12)   Transparent occupation; and
      (13)   Commercial fishing gear storage at the gear owner’s dwelling or
adjacent lot under the same ownership. The gear must be stored in a neat and
orderly manner and must be non-toxic, non-hazardous, and cause no odor off-
site.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an R-5 Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable.
      (1)   Cemetery;
      (2)   Church, non-profit religious, or philanthropic institution;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Day nursery, nursery school, kindergarten, or similar facility;
      (5)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (6)   Home occupation;
      (7)   Golf course or country club, but excluding golf driving range,
miniature golf course, or similar facility;
      (8)   Private non-commercial recreation club, such as tennis, swimming,
or archery club, but excluding commercial amusement or recreation enterprises;
      (9)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (10)   Public school or private school offering curricula similar to
public school;
      (11)   Public or private utility facility;
      (12)   Radio or television transmitter or tower;
      (13)   Solid waste disposal transfer station; and
      (14)   Mobile home park/manufactured dwelling park.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136 in an R-5 Zone, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Lot size and dimensions. The minimum lot size and dimensions in an
R-5 Zone shall be as follows:
         (a)   The lot area shall be 5,000 square feet for a one-family
dwelling. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 1,250 square feet for
multi-family dwellings;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front lot line shall be 50 feet for
an interior lot and 55 feet for a corner lot, except flag lots. The staff of a
flag lot shall have a minimum width and frontage of not less than 25 feet;
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet; and
         (d)   Lot area for ocean front lots or lots with intervening ownership
which does not prevent coastal erosion from progressive deterioration of the
property shall be determined by the amount of area from the line of mean high
water to the landward extent of the property.
      (2)   Yards. The minimum yard requirements in the R-5 Zone shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet;
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of either five feet or one
foot for each three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the
greater;
         (c)   The street side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet, except this
may be reduced by one foot for each foot the average lot width is less than 60
feet, however, no street side yard shall be less than ten feet (see LOT WIDTH
in § 152.003 of this chapter for method of calculation);
         (d)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet, except that on a
corner lot, it shall be a minimum of either five feet or one foot for each
three feet of building height, whichever requirement is the greater; and
         (e)   No structure shall be located closer than 60 feet from the
center line of any state highway.
      (3)   Building height. No building in the R-5 Zone shall exceed a height
of 40 feet.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 130, passed 4-6-
1987; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed
12-2-1991; Ord. 187, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 236, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 256,
passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 268, passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.030 RETAIL COMMERCIAL ZONE C-1.
   In a C-1 Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In a C-1 Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235 where applicable:
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Manufactured dwelling;
      (3)   A temporary manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle used for
dwelling purposes during the construction of a permitted use for which a
building permit has been issued, provided the temporary manufactured dwelling
or recreational vehicle:
         (a)   Is located during the time the construction is underway; and
         (b)   Will not remain more than one year from date of placement or 30
days following substantial completion, whichever is earlier.
      (4)   Agricultural use of land provided that no livestock shall be raised
or kept on the premises;
      (5)   Recreational vehicle (unoccupied) or boat, stored on a lot in
combination with an approved building;
      (6)   Pre-fabricated or modular dwelling;
      (7)   Two-family dwelling;
      (8)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (9)   Retail store or shop, such as food store, gift shop, drug store,
apparel store, hardware store, furniture store, or similar establishment;
      (10)   Repair shop for the type of goods offered for sale in those retail
trade establishments permitted in a C-1 Zone provided all repair shall occur
entirely within an enclosed building;
      (11)   The manufacture, fabrication, and/or assembly of those goods
offered for sale on the premises, provided all manufacturing, fabricating,
assembling, and storage not exceed 50% of the total floor area of the
establishment, and provided further that it shall occur within an enclosed
building;
      (12)   Personal or business service establishment, such as barber or
beauty shop, laundry or dry cleaning establishment, tailor shop, or similar
establishment;
      (13)   Clinic;
      (14)   Club, lodge, or fraternal organization;
      (15)   Financial institution;
      (16)   Indoor commercial amusement or recreation establishment, such as a
bowling alley, theater, pool hall, or aquarium;
      (17)   Mortuary;
      (18)   Newspaper office or print shop;
      (19)   Office;
      (20)   Private museum, art gallery, or similar facility;
      (21)   Restaurant, bar, or tavern;
      (22)   Home occupation;
      (23)   Automobile service station, including minor repair, provided it is
conducted entirely within an enclosed building;
      (24)   Laundromat;
      (25)   Retail sale of sporting goods or bait;
      (26)   Condominiums;
      (27)   Public or private parking lots;
      (28)   Residential facility;
      (29)   Time share project;
      (30)   Tourist accommodation or resort; and
      (31)   Commercial fishing gear storage in the part of the zone adjacent
to the harbor (Tax Map 09-11-08 AB, tax lots 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100,
1101, 1200, 1201, 7900, 8000, 8100, 8200, 90000, 90001, 90002, and 90003).
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In a C-1 Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Church, non-profit religious, or philanthropic institution;
      (2)   Community center;
      (3)   Day nursery, nursery school, kindergarten, or similar activity;
      (4)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (5)   Mobile vending stand;
      (6)   Private non-commercial recreation club, such as tennis, swimming,
or archery club;
      (7)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (8)   Public school or private school offering curricula similar to
public school;
      (9)   Public or private utility facility;
      (10)   Radio or television transmitter or tower;
      (11)   Solid waste disposal transfer station;
      (12)   Recreational vehicle park;
      (13)   Outdoor commercial amusement or recreation establishment, such as
miniature golf course or drive-in theater, but not including uses, such as race
track or automobile speedway;
      (14)   Hospital and/or nursing home;
      (15)   Drive-in services, such as a drive-in restaurant;
      (16)   Billboards;
      (17)   Kennel;
      (18)   Animal hospital;
      (19)   Automobile repair garage, provided all repair shall be conducted
entirely within an enclosed building;
      (20)   Boat or marine equipment sales, service, storage, or rental; boat
or marine equipment minor repair, provided all such repair be conducted
entirely within an enclosed building;
      (21)   Lumber or building materials, sales, and storage;
      (22)   Warehouse or storage area; and
      (23)   Child care.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136, in any C-1 Zone, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   All yards abutting a lot in a residential zone shall be a minimum
of ten feet;
      (2)   No building in the C-1 Zone shall exceed a height of 35 feet;
      (3)   Outdoor storage shall be screened with a sight-obscuring fence; and
      (4)   Kennels shall be located:
         (a)   No closer than 75 feet from a residential zone; and
         (b)   No closer than 20 feet from a property line.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 130, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 186, passed 12-22-1992; Ord. 187, passed
2-16-1993; Ord. 217, passed 4-17-1995; Ord. 234, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 268,
passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 279, passed - -2007; Ord. 327-21, passed 4-20-2021)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.031 COMMERCIAL ZONE C-1.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to §
152.030 of this subchapter. The provisions of this section shall override any
conflicts between provisions of this section and §
152.030 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any structure lawfully permitted which is made non-conforming by
adoption or amendment of this chapter is a non-conforming structure. Existing
structure non-conformities may continue indefinitely (grandfathered). Normal
maintenance and repairs are permitted that do not result in the alteration of
the footprint, volume, or height of the structure.
   (B)   General information.
      (1)   In the Commercial Zone C-1 on arterials (specifically Highway 101),
these commercial guidelines help create a vibrant pedestrian environment by
slowing traffic down, providing a storefront business friendly character to the
street, and especially by encouraging walking for the enjoyment of residents
and visitors. To create a social and approachable streetscape, the setback
standards are flexible to encourage public spaces between sidewalks and
building entrances (such as, extra-wide sidewalks, plazas, squares, outdoor
dining areas, and pocket parks). The addition of these pedestrian amenities
serves as informal gathering places for socializing, resting, and enhanced
enjoyment of the city commercial district.
      (2)   The standards encourage the formation of solid blocks of commercial
and mixed-use buildings for individual walkable districts that are tied to the
overall business district.
      (3)   Along Highway 101, frontage, landscaping, building setbacks, and
other pedestrian amenities sustain the feel of a small community located
between two state parks and vegetated corridors. These amenities will
distinguish the city from many cities and towns that have arterial development
dominated by pavement, parking lots, and stark building facades immediately
adjacent to narrow sidewalks.
      (4)   Higher density residential uses, such as multi-family buildings and
attached townhomes, are permitted to encourage permanent housing near
employment, shopping, and services, and to encourage affordable, amiable
housing for families that desire to play and live in the city.
   (C)   Building setbacks.
      (1)   Generally. These setback standards shall apply to primary
structures, as well as accessory structures on arterials (Highway 101). The
standards may be modified only by approval of a variance in accordance with §§
152.170 through
152.173 of this chapter.
      (2)   Front yard setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum setback. There is no minimum front yard setback
required.
         (b)   Maximum setback. There is no maximum front yard setback
required, but a usable public space with pedestrian amenities (such as, plaza,
pocket park, managed landscaping, outdoor dining area, or town square with
seating) shall be provided in the entire area between the building and front
property line (see also divisions (G) and (H) below).
      (3)   Rear yard setbacks. There is no minimum rear yard setback.
      (4)   Side yard setbacks. There is no minimum side yard setback required
but in the case of a side yard on a corner lot, a usable public space with
pedestrian amenities (such as, extra-wide sidewalk, plaza, pocket park, managed
landscaping, outdoor dining area, or town square with seating) shall be
provided in the entire area between the building and side property line (see
also divisions (G) and (H) below).
      (5)   Clear vision standards. All buildings shall conform to the clear
vision standards in §
152.055 of this chapter and the applicable fire and building codes for attached
structures, fire walls, and related requirements.
   (D)   Lot coverage of buildings on arterials (Highway 101).
      (1)   There is no maximum or minimum lot coverage requirement.
      (2)   All buildings on arterials (Highway 101) shall have a minimum 1,000
square feet.
   (E)   Building orientation on arterials (Highway 101).
      (1)   Buildings shall have their primary entrance(s) oriented to (facing)
Highway 101, except as noted below.
         (a)   Building entrances may include entrances to individual units,
lobby entrances, entrances oriented to pedestrian plazas, or breezeway/
courtyard entrances (such as, to a cluster of units or commercial spaces).
         (b)   Alternatively, a building may have its entrance facing a side
yard when a direct pedestrian walkway not exceeding 20 feet in length is
provided between the building entrance and the street right-of-way.
         (c)   On corner lots, buildings entrances may be oriented to the
street corner.
      (2)   Developments may be configured to provide a driveway or interior
parking court. If interior parking courts are created, then pedestrian pathways
shall be provided between buildings from the street right-of-way to interior
parking courts, to ensure reasonably safe, direct, and convenient access to
building entrances and off-street parking.
      (3)   Off-street parking, driveways, or other vehicular circulation shall
not be placed between a building and Highway 101.
   (F)   Building height on arterials (Highway 101).
      (1)   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed a height of 35 feet.
      (2)   (a)   Building height shall be measured at the front of the
building from the lowest point from the adjacent sidewalk, or the existing
paved street elevation where a sidewalk does not currently exist. For corner
lots and through lots, the front shall be along the major street.
         (b)   The one exception to the above is on the west side of Highway
101 from Sunset Street to the bridge where building height is measured in
accordance with §
152.003 of this chapter.
   (G)   Building architectural standards.
      (1)   This section applies to all building types on arterials (Highway
101).
      (2)   All buildings along Highway 101 shall contribute to the storefront
character and visual relatedness of the city’s C-1 Zone buildings. This
criterion shall be met by providing architectural features as listed in
divisions (G)(2)(a) through (G)(2)(d) below, in the front or “main street”
facade or elevation, as applicable. Buildings situated on corners shall include
the stated criteria in the side street elevation or facade as well. Buildings
on through-lots (lots that face a street along the front and rear of the
property) shall treat the secondary street facade in a manner similar to that
as the main street facade is treated. Additionally, if the architectural
character along the secondary street is other than commercial, that facade
should be compatible with the architectural character of that neighborhood as
much as possible while maintaining the architectural integrity of the main
building.
         (a)   Fenestration and decoration. Appropriately spaced and/or shaped
windows with window hoods, cornices, and/or canopies or special trim at all
windows on all building stories. Windows shall be of a design that is
consistent with the architectural character of the building and as described in
this section.
         (b)   Display windows. Large display windows shall be provided on the
ground floor and shall be set off by extended mullions, applied columns, or a
storefront cornice to separate the ground floor from upper stories. Street
ground floor exterior walls shall contain a minimum of 50% of either display
windows or entrance area measured across the length of the exterior wall.
Display windows are not required for residential or tourist accommodation uses.
For all building types and uses, floors facing streets shall not have less than
25% window area measured across the length of the exterior wall. Proportion of
windows shall conform to general architectural standards.
         (c)   Decoration. Decorative cornices and/or fascias on street facades
at top of building (flat roof), or eaves on buildings with pitched roofs and/or
expressions of roof structure, such as projected roof trusses or decorative
roof overhangs.
         (d)   Additional design features. A minimum of two of the following
design features are required:
            1.   Cedar shake shingle appearance for the roof and siding;
            2.   A steeply pitched roof with gable ends;
            3.   Multiple dormers;
            4.   Shutters by windows;
            5.   Window boxes;
            6.   Pilasters surrounding doors; and
            7.   Bright white trim.
      (3)   Other than receptacles for the public use, trash containers
(including recyclables and garbage) shall not be located along Highway 101,
unless they are non-conforming (“grandfathered”), and shall be obscured by a
fence or similar, or otherwise hidden from view.
      (4)   A minimum 15% of C-1 properties with Highway 101 frontage north of
Bradford Street and south of Evans Street shall be landscaped with native
vegetation including a mix of trees, shrubs, and ground cover. Properties shall
contain at least one tree indigenous to the northwest.
   (H)   Pedestrian amenities in the C-1 Zone.
      (1)   Pedestrian sidewalks shall be provided on all street sides of
buildings, parking areas, and the like in the entire C-1 zoned area. These
sidewalks shall have a minimum eight-foot width along Highway 101, and minimum
five-foot width elsewhere. Sidewalks shall be concrete with a city-approved
surface material that is consistent with adjacent and nearby sidewalks. All
sidewalks shall be ADA compliant to meet current laws.
      (2)   Every building and development on arterials (Highway 101) shall
provide one or more of the “pedestrian amenities” listed below:
         (a)   A managed landscaped plaza, courtyard, square, or recessed area
next to the building;
         (b)   Sitting space, such as dining area, benches, or sitting ledges
(minimum of 16 inches in height and 30 inches in width) between the building
and sidewalk;
         (c)   Building canopy, awning, pergola, or similar weather protection
(minimum projection of four feet over a sidewalk or other pedestrian space, and
minimum eight-foot above the sidewalk or other pedestrian space); or
         (d)   Multi-family housing and tourist accommodations that do not have
a majority (greater than 75%) of retail on the ground floor shall have a
minimum of eight feet of landscaped grounds between the building(s) and
sidewalk.
   (I)   Special standards for certain uses in the C-1 Zone.
      (1)   Common areas. All common areas (such as, walkways, drives,
courtyards, private alleys, parking courts, landscaped areas, and any otherwise
unused right-of-way areas between the property line and developed road, and the
like) and building exteriors shall be maintained by the property owner. Copies
of any applicable covenants, restrictions, and conditions shall be recorded by
the applicable agency and provided to the city prior to building permit
approval.
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures.
         (a)   An accessory structure shall not be allowed before or without a
primary use.
         (b)   Accessory structures on arterial (Highway 101) property shall
comply with the setback standards herein, except that the maximum setback
provisions shall not apply.
         (c)   Accessory structures on arterial (Highway 101) property shall
comply with division (G) above.
         (d)   A structure shall not be placed over an easement that prohibits
such placement. No structure shall encroach into the public right-of-way
without prior written approval by the applicable agency.
         (e)   The owner may be required to remove an accessory structure as a
condition of land division approval when removal of the structure is necessary
to comply with setback standards.
         (f)   No accessory use structure shall be viewable from Highway 101.
   (J)   Parking, garages, and driveways in the C-1 Zone.
      (1)   Parking requirements within the C-1 Zone shall conform to §
152.058 of this chapter. Parking-related provisions of this section shall
supersede provisions of §
152.058 of this chapter that are expressly contrary to this section. The
required size of parking spaces, aisles, driveways, and similar design features
are set forth in Diagram A below. Due to the increased length of vehicles,
longer parking spaces are highly recommended. No “compact” sized spaces are
allowed.
      (2)   If an existing commercial building is presently non-conforming in
regards to parking (“grandfathered”), increasing the square footage of the
building will not require the building owner/developer to fulfill the existing
non-conforming portion of the parking space requirement. The owner/developer
will be required to fulfill any additional parking requirement relating to the
increased square footage.
      (3)   (a)   All off-street paved vehicle areas along arterials (Highway
101), including surface lots, driveways, parking areas, and garages, shall be
accessed from alleys or a side or back street, and shall be located in areas
located behind or to the side of a building.
         (b)   They may be placed in structures above the ground floor.
         (c)   Side yards on corner lots shall not be used for surface parking.
         (d)   Parking areas on the side of a building shall be limited to one
row of diagonal parking maximum.
         (e)   All garage entrances facing a street (such as, structured
parking) shall be recessed behind the front elevation by a minimum of four
feet.
         (f)   On corner lots, garage entrances and driveways shall be oriented
to a side street (such as, away from Highway 101 when vehicle access cannot be
provided from an alley).
         (g)   Parking areas or parking spaces shall not be placed in front of
a building on arterials (Highway 101), other than the public parking spaces
provided within the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any day, no individual who works
or resides in the C-1 Zone shall park a vehicle on Highway 101 north of the
Depoe Bay Bridge while in their place of employment or in their place of
residence, except for vehicles with authorized disabled placards. One exception
is on the west side of Highway 101 from Sunset Street south to Whale Park
Memorial Wall (Bradford Street). Tourist transients are also excluded. No
structure in the applicable area shall be considered non-conforming or
(“grandfathered”) from this specific standard.
      (5)   Driveways, alleyways, and any other vehicle access shall be hard-
surface paved and shall be at the existing road grade level at the point the
driveway meets the public right-of-way. In cases where the current developed
road is not the full width of the public right-of-way, the vehicle access shall
be at the elevation the road grade level would be as if the road were expanded
to the edge of the public right-of-way.
      (6)   Regardless of use, all parking lots, parking areas, parking courts,
and parking spaces shall be hard-surface paved and striped for individual
parking spaces. The parking spaces along the outer boundaries of a lot or
parking area shall contain a curb or bumper rail at least four inches high and
set back four feet from the front of the space. At least 5% of parking areas
over six stalls shall be landscaped.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-1-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.032 NORTH COAST AVENUE LIMITED LAND USE OVERLAY ZONE (NCA).
   (A)   Location. The NCA includes 12 oceanfront properties located west of
Coast Avenue between Ellingson Street and Graham Street identified on Lincoln
County Assessor’s Map 9-11-8 BA as Tax Lots 5300, 5400, 5500, 5600, and Map 9-
11-8 BD as Tax Lots 6500, 6600, 6700, 6800, 6900, 7000, 7100, and 7200.
   (B)   Purpose. The NCA is in recognition of the property owner’s desire to
limit the commercial uses of their properties to those that would maintain the
outer appearance of their neighborhood as homes on single lots and that would
be compatible with the capability of those lots to handle such commercial uses.
These standards and provisions are in addition to city ordinances and federal
and state laws and regulations.
   (C)   General requirements for establishing a limited land use overlay zone.
The NCA Limited Land Use Overlay Zone is established in that the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The area is unique in the C-1 Zone by its residential character and
its utility for vacation rental dwelling uses;
      (2)   There is 100% approval of the limited land use overlay from the
property owners within the NCA and 71% approval from those property owners
within 250 feet of the boundaries of the NCA;
      (3)   The 12 properties in the NCA are contiguous;
      (4)   Special standards are provided for the NCA in division (C)(5)
below; and
      (5)   The reasons asserted as a basis for the NCA limited land use
overlay application do not arise from a violation of this chapter.
                              -
   (D)   Uses permitted outright. In the NCA Zone, the following uses are
permitted subject to the applicable provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235:
      (1)   A single-family dwelling built on the site;
      (2)   Vacation rental dwelling (within a single-family dwelling);
      (3)   Home occupation; and
      (4)   Transparent occupation.
   (E)   Standards. In addition to the underlying zone standards, the following
standards apply in the NCA Zone.
      (1)   Yards. Minimum yard setback requirements in the NCA shall comply
with R-1 Zone standards.
      (2)   Building height. Maximum building height shall comply with R-1 Zone
standards.
      (3)   Nuisance control. No noise, lights, dust, smoke, odors, or
electromagnetic frequencies generated on-site in excess of the amounts normally
associated with residential uses shall emanate off-site or interfere with
surrounding residential or commercial uses.
      (4)   Lighting. Outside lighting shall be restricted to low voltage
lighting and/or motion sensor lighting for security.
      (5)   Off-street parking. For vacation rental dwelling uses, off-street
parking space requirements are one space for each bedroom and shall be located
on the same lot or on spaces specifically designated by the applicant within
250 feet (as measured by a direct line from the nearest property lines). Any
new or substantially improved structure shall be required to provide the
minimum required parking spaces on-site in accordance with §§
152.055 through
152.076 of this chapter.
      (6)   Solid waste disposal. For vacation rental dwelling uses, adequate
garbage receptacles must be provided and weekly solid waste pick-up is required
during all months of the year.
      (7)   State law compliance. It is the property owner’s responsibility to
ensure that a vacation rental dwelling use remains in substantial compliance
with state regulations for the following: health, safety, Building Code, Fire
Code, tourist accommodation statutes, and Uniform Housing Code.
      (8)   Occupancy. Vacation rental dwellings shall not exceed two persons
per bedroom plus one additional person per dwelling.
      (9)   Signage. Vacation rental dwelling uses shall only have one on-site
sign which must be four square feet in area. The sign shall identify the site
as a vacation rental business, identify the local contact person, and state
that the local contact person is available 24 hours each day, seven days a week
to handle rentals and complaints.
      (10)   Local responsible party. For vacation rental dwelling uses, a
local responsible party within the local telephone calling area must be
identified by the owner. The owner shall provide the telephone number of the
local contact person to the city, along with authorization of that person to
take action in place of the owner.
      (11)   Business license. For vacation rental dwelling, home occupation,
and transparent occupation uses, a city business license is required. In
addition, for vacation rental dwelling uses, transient room tax ordinance
provisions shall apply.
   (F)   Revocation. Any violation of the requirements or standards of this
overlay zone or any other city ordinance may result in revocation of business
license.
   (G)   Zoning map. The NCA Overlay Zone is identified on the city zoning map
with the symbol (NCA) in addition to the underlying C-1 Zone.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-6-2003) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.033 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE L-I.
   In an L-I Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an L-I Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (2)   Retail store or shop, such as food store, gift shop, drug store,
apparel store, hardware store, furniture store, or similar establishment;
      (3)   Repair shop for the type of goods offered for sale in those retail
trade establishments permitted in a C-1 Zone, provided all repair shall occur
entirely within an enclosed building;
      (4)   The manufacture, fabrication, and/or assembly of those goods
offered for sale on the premises, provided all manufacturing, fabrication,
assembling, and storage not to exceed 50% of the total floor area of the
establishment;
      (5)   Personal or business service establishment, such as barber or
beauty shop, laundry or dry cleaning establishment, tailor shop, or similar
establishment;
      (6)   Clinic;
      (7)   Club, lodge, or fraternal organization;
      (8)   Financial institution;
      (9)   Indoor commercial amusement or recreation establishment, such as
bowling alley, theater, or pool hall;
      (10)   Mortuary;
      (11)   Newspaper office or print shop;
      (12)   Office;
      (13)   Private museum, art gallery, or similar facility;
      (14)   Restaurant, bar, or tavern;
      (15)   Automobile service station, including minor repairs;
      (16)   Laundromat;
      (17)   Retail sale of sporting goods or bait;
      (18)   Automobile, truck or trailer sales, service, storage, rental, or
repair;
      (19)   Boat or marine equipment sales, service, storage, rental, or
repair;
      (20)   Cabinet or similar woodworking shop;
      (21)   Cold storage or ice processing plant;
      (22)   Feed or seed store;
      (23)   Implement, machinery, or heavy equipment sales, service, storage,
or rental;
      (24)   Laboratory for experiment or research;
      (25)   Lumber or building materials sales and storage;
      (26)   Machine, welding, sheet metal, or similar metal working shop;
      (27)   Plumbing, heating, electrical, roofing, or paint contractors,
storage, repairs, or sales shop;
      (28)   Tire sales, repair, re-treading, or vulcanizing;
      (29)   Truck terminal or freight depot;
      (30)   Warehouse or storage area;
      (31)   Wholesale establishment;
      (32)   Time share projects;
      (33)   Condominiums;
      (34)   Public or private parking lots;
      (35)   Manager/owner/caretaker residence;
      (36)   Parking area or meeting requirements of §
152.058 of this chapter;
      (37)   Tourist accommodation or resort; and
      (38)   Commercial fishing gear storage.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an L-I Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses may be permitted subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Community center;
      (2)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (3)   Public park, playground, or swimming pool;
      (4)   Public or private utility facility;
      (5)   Radio or television transmitter or tower;
      (6)   Solid waste disposal transfer station;
      (7)   Recreational vehicle park;
      (8)   Drive-in services, such as a drive-in restaurant;
      (9)   Billboards;
      (10)   Kennel;
      (11)   Animal hospital;
      (12)   A use involving manufacture, research, repair, assembly,
processing, fabricating, packing, distribution, warehousing, wholesaling, or
storage, provided that the use does not create a public nuisance or an
unreasonable hazard to health or property because of excessive noise, smoke,
odor, or dust or because it constitutes a fire, explosion, or other physical
hazard;
      (13)   Mobile vending stand;
      (14)   Except that the following uses are prohibited in an L-I Zone:
         (a)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture;
         (b)   Explosives storage or manufacture;
         (c)   Fertilizer manufacture;
         (d)   Gas manufacture;
         (e)   Glue manufacture;
         (f)   Petroleum or petroleum products refining;
         (g)   Pulp mill;
         (h)   Rendering plant;
         (i)   Slaughterhouse or stock yard;
         (j)   Smelting or refining of metallic ore; and
         (k)   Other uses similar to the above.
      (15)   Churches and religious organizations, subject to the following
special, supplemental requirements:
         (a)   The proposed location is suitable, considering:
            1.   The size, design, and operating characteristics of the
proposed use;
            2.   The adequacy of transportation access to the proposed
location; and
            3.   The natural and physical features of the site, such as general
topography, natural hazards, natural resource values, and other features.
         (b)   The proposed use is compatible with exiting and projected uses
on surrounding lands, considering the factors in division (B)(15)(a) above;
         (c)   No adverse impact to existing and projected surrounding
properties and uses shall occur due to on-street parking upon compliance with
the off-street parking requirements in §
152.058 of this subchapter; if an adverse impact is found to exist
notwithstanding compliance with the off-street parking requirements in §
152.058 of this chapter, the off-street parking requirements shall be increased
to one parking space for each three persons, as determined by the maximum
occupancy by the Fire Marshal, in the assembly area;
         (d)   All off-street parking shall be located on the same lot or on
lot(s) immediately adjacent to the church or religious organization, provided
however that no off-street parking shall be located across a state highway or
arterial, or commercial or industrial street (as defined by the Comprehensive
Plan or its successor, or resolution of the City Council); and
         (e)   A waiver of remonstrance, recognizing the rights of property
owners within the L-I Zone to use their property for the purposes permitted
within the L-I Zone, to be recorded with the County Clerk.
      (16)   Child care.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in this section and in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235, the standards which apply in the C-1 Zone shall apply in the L-I Zone.
      (1)   All yards abutting a lot in a residential zone shall be a minimum
of 20 feet.
      (2)   Outdoor storage abutting or facing a street or highway or a lot in
a residential zone shall be screened with a sight-obscuring fence.
      (3)   No building in the L-I Zone shall exceed a height of 40 feet.
      (4)   Kennels shall be located:
         (a)   No closer than 75 feet from a residential zone; and
         (b)   No closer than 20 feet from a property line.
      (5)   All uses allowed either outright or conditionally in the L-I Zone
involving manufacture, repair, assembly, processing, or fabricating shall be
conducted entirely within an enclosed building. The manufacture or repair of
boats shall be exempted from this requirement.
(Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 130, passed 4-6-
1987; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 186, passed
12-22-1992; Ord. 234, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 237, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 268,
passed 11-2-2004; Ord. 327-21, passed 4-20-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.034 MARINE COMMERCIAL ZONE M-C.
   In an M-C Zone, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an M-C Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Automobile service station;
      (2)   Moorage facility, marine, and/or boat charter services;
      (3)   Boat or marine equipment sales, service, storage, rental, or
repair;
      (4)   Manufacture of boats;
      (5)   Restaurant, bar, or tavern;
      (6)   Retail services, sales, and office space;
      (7)   Manufacture, assembly, processing, and/or packing of sea products;
and
      (8)   Manager/owner/caretaker residence.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an M-C Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses may be permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Governmental structure or use of land;
      (2)   Marine laboratory for experiment or research;
      (3)   Public park, playground, or similar recreation area;
      (4)   Public or private utility facility;
      (5)   Any use permitted in the M-C Zone involving filling and/or
construction, addition, or reconstruction of piers, docks, bulkheads,
boathouses, or similar facilities; and
      (6)   Mobile vending stand.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136, there shall be no limitations pertaining to fencing of outdoor storage
areas, the standards which apply in the C-1 Zone shall apply in the M-C Zone.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 139, passed 3-24-1988; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 178, passed 6-1-
1992) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.035 PLANNED MARINE AND RECREATION ZONE M-P.
   In an M-P Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an M-P Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Bait and tackle shop;
      (2)   Boat launching and marine ways;
      (3)   Moorage facilities;
      (4)   Marina;
      (5)   Marine fuel sales;
      (6)   Boat charter services;
      (7)   Dry dock facilities for boat repair and maintenance;
      (8)   Laboratory for experiment or research of marine life;
      (9)   Manufacture, assembly, processing and/or packing of sea products;
      (10)   Marine loading and unloading facilities;
      (11)   Marine supply sales; and
      (12)   Commercial fishing gear storage.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an M-P Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses may be permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235, where applicable:
      (1)   Restaurant;
      (2)   Seafood market;
      (3)   Boat storage; and
      (4)   Public park, playground or similar recreation area.
   (C)   Standards. Except as provided in §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.130 through
152.136, the standards which apply in the M-C Zone shall apply in the M-P Zone.
   (D)   Special standards. In allowing a building permit for any use allowed
outright in the M-P Zone, the city must establish through a process of
administrative review, which may at the City Council’s direction be vested with
the City Recorder, the Planning Commission, the Harbor Commission, the City
Council, or any other body appointed by the City Council, that:
      (1)   The use or activity that is being proposed can only be carried out
on, in, or adjacent to the water because the use physically or economically
requires access to the waterbody for water-borne transportation, recreation,
energy production, or source of water; and
      (2)   The plan for development will assure the creation of an attractive
environment and protect all present and potential development from any possible
blighting effects.
   (E)   Special standards in allowing a conditional use. In an M-P Zone, the
allowance of a conditional use may only be granted when it is found that the
conditional use will not preempt any water-dependent uses allowed outright in
the M-P Zone from direct access to the estuarine waters.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 268, passed 11-2-
2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.036 MARINE WATERWAY ZONE M-W.
   In an M-W Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an M-W Zone, the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235, and to the estuarine plan, where applicable: a use permitted outright
as indicated in the permitted use matrix of the estuarine plan, specific to the
estuarine management unit within which the use is proposed.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. In an M-W Zone, the following uses and
their accessory uses may be permitted, subject to the applicable provisions of
§§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235, and the estuarine plan. A conditional use as indicated in the
permitted use matrix of the estuarine plan, specific to the estuarine
management unit within which the use is proposed.
   (C)   Standards. All uses permitted outright or as conditional are subject
to the estuarine standards of the estuarine plan. In addition to the
requirements of this chapter, a conditional use within the M-W Zone may be
allowed only when findings in accordance with the provisions of the estuarine
plan (conditional uses) are made.
(Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982)
§ 152.037 TIMBER CONSERVATION ZONE T-C.
   In a T-C Zone, the following uses are permitted and shall be governed by the
provisions of the Oregon Forest Practices Act, being O.R.S. 527.610 through
527.810, and the applicable statute of the latest state statutes. Uses not
expressly mentioned are not allowed.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses are permitted in T-C Zone,
subject to obtaining a permit from the Oregon Department of Forestry and
subject to applicable siting criteria, other applicable provisions of this
section, and applicable provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter:
      (1)   Forest operations or forest practice including, but not limited to,
reforestation of forest land, road construction and maintenance, harvesting of
a forest tree species, application of chemicals, and disposal of slash;
      (2)   Temporary on-site structures which are auxiliary to and used during
the term of a particular forest operation. As used in this division (A)(2),
AUXILIARY means a use or alteration of a structure or land which provides help
or is directly associated with the conduct of a particular forest practice. An
“auxiliary structure” is located on-site, temporary in nature, and is not
designed to remain for the forest’s entire growth cycle from planting to
harvesting. An auxiliary use is removed when a particular forest practice has
concluded;
      (3)   Physical alterations to the land auxiliary to forest practices,
including but not limited to, those made for purposes of exploration, mining,
commercial gravel extraction, and processing, landfills, dams, reservoirs, road
construction, or recreational facilities;
      (4)   Uses to conserve soil, air, and water quality, and to provide for
wildlife and fisheries resources;
      (5)   Farm use as defined in the applicable statute of the latest state
statutes;
      (6)   Local distribution lines, such as electric, telephone, and natural
gas, and accessory equipment, such as electric distribution transformers,
poles, meter cabinets, terminal boxes, pedestals, or equipment which provides
service hookups, including water service hookups;
      (7)   Temporary portable facility for the primary processing of forest
products. The facility shall not be placed on a permanent foundation and shall
be removed at the conclusion of the forest operation requiring its use;
      (8)   Temporary forest labor camps limited to the duration of the forest
operation requiring the use;
      (9)   Exploration for, and production of, geothermal, gas, oil, and other
associated hydrocarbons, including the placement and operation of compressors,
separators, and other customary production equipment for an individual well
adjacent to the well head as defined in the applicable statute of the latest
state statutes;
      (10)   Caretaker residences for public parks and fish hatcheries;
      (11)   Private hunting and fishing operations without any accommodations;
      (12)   Exploration for mineral and aggregate resources as defined in the
applicable statute of the latest state statutes;
      (13)   Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection;
      (14)   Widening of roads within existing rights-of-way in conformance
with the transportation element of acknowledged comprehensive plans, including
public road and highway projects as described in the applicable statute of the
latest state statutes;
      (15)   Water intake facilities, canals, and distribution lines for farm
irrigation and ponds;
      (16)   Uninhabitable structures accessory to fish and wildlife
enhancement; and
      (17)   (a)   Alteration, restoration, or replacement of a lawfully
established dwelling that has:
            1.   Intact exterior walls and roof structure;
            2.   Indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet, and
bathing facilities connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
            3.   Interior wiring or interior lights; and
            4.   A heating system.
         (b)   In the case of replacement, the original building is to be
removed, demolished, or converted to a permitted non-residential use within 90
days of completion of the replacement dwelling.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses may be permitted
subject to the provisions of division (C) below and applicable provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136, and
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter:
      (1)   Temporary log scaling and weigh station;
      (2)   Parks and campgrounds;
      (3)   Television, microwave, and radio communication facilities and
transmission towers;
      (4)   Fire stations for rural fire protection;
      (5)   Aids to navigation and aviation;
      (6)   Water intake facilities, related treatment facilities, pumping
stations, and distribution lines for uses other than farm use;
      (7)   Reservoirs and water impoundments;
      (8)   New electric transmission lines with right-of-way widths of up to
100 feet as specified in the applicable statute of the latest state statute.
New distribution lines, such as gas, oil, and geothermal, with rights-of-way 50
feet wide or less in width;
      (9)   Temporary asphalt and concrete batch plants as accessory uses to
specific highway projects;
      (10)   Public road and highway projects as described in the applicable
statute of the latest state statute; or
      (11)   Forest management research and experimentation facilities as
defined by the applicable statute of the latest state statute or where
accessory to forest operations;
   (C)   Limitations on conditional uses. The City Planner or Planning
Commission shall determine whether a use authorized by division (B) above meets
the following requirements. These requirements are designed to make the use
compatible with forest operations and agriculture, and to conserve values found
on forest lands:
      (1)   The proposed use will not force a significant change in, or
significantly increase the cost of, accepted farming or forest practices on
agriculture or forest lands;
      (2)   The proposed use will not significantly increase fire hazard,
significantly increase fire suppression costs, or significantly increase risks
to fire suppression personnel; and
      (3)   A written statement is recorded with the deed or a written contract
is made with the city or its equivalent, in which the land owner recognizes the
rights of adjacent and nearby land owners to conduct forest operations
consistent with the Forest Practices Act, being O.R.S. 527.610 through 527.810,
and divisions (B)(1), (B)(10), and (B)(11) above.
   (D)   Lot size standards. The minimum lot size shall be 80 acres.
   (E)   General requirements for all buildings. In addition to the other
applicable requirements of this section, all buildings authorized in the T-
C Zone shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The property owner shall submit a stocking survey report to the
County Assessor and the Assessor shall verify that the minimum stocking
requirements have been met by the time required by Department of Forestry
rules. The Assessor shall inform the Department of Forestry in cases where the
property owner has not submitted a stocking survey report or where the survey
report indicate that minimum stocking requirements have not been met;
      (2)   Upon notification by the Assessor, the Department of Forestry shall
determine whether the tract meets minimum stocking requirements of the Forest
Practices Act, being O.R.S. 527.610 through 527.810. If the Department
determines that the tract does not meet those requirements, the Department
shall notify the owner and the Assessor that the land is not being managed as
forest land. The Assessor shall then remove the forest land designation
pursuant to the applicable statute and impose the additional tax pursuant to
the applicable state statute; and
      (3)   The applicant shall provide evidence to the city that the domestic
water supply is from a source authorized in accordance with the Water Resources
Department’s administrative rules for the appropriation of ground water or
surface water and not from a Class II stream as defined in the Forest Practices
Rules, O.A.R. 629, 2003 Edition. For purposes of this division (E)(3), evidence
of a domestic water supply means verification from a water purveyor that the
use described in the application will be served by the purveyor under the
purveyor’s rights to appropriate water.
   (F)   Siting and fire protection standards for buildings. The following
siting and fire protection standards shall apply to all new buildings:
      (1)   (a)   Buildings and structures shall be sited on the subject lot or
parcel so that:
            1.   They have the least impact on nearby or adjoining forest
lands;
            2.   Adverse impacts on forest operations and accepted farming
practices on the tract will be minimized;
            3.   The amount of forest land used to site access roads, service
corridors, the building and structures is minimized; and
            4.   The risks associated with wildfire are minimized.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may impose conditions on any building
approval which are deemed necessary to ensure conformance with the standards
contained in this division (F)(1)(a) above including, but not limited to,
requiring increased setbacks from adjoining properties, siting on that portion
of a property least suitable for growing trees, or clustering near existing
buildings or roads.
      (2)   Buildings shall have fire retardant roofs conforming to the
requirements of § R 221.4.2.1 of the State of Oregon One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Specialty Code, 1993 Edition;
      (3)   Buildings shall be sited on slopes of 40% or less;
      (4)   A primary fire break no less than 30 feet wide shall be provided
and maintained. The primary firebreak may include a lawn, ornamental shrubbery,
or individual or groups of trees separated by a distance equal to the diameter
of the crowns adjacent to each other, or 15 feet, whichever is greater. All
trees shall be pruned to at least eight feet in height. Dead fuels shall be
removed;
      (5)   A secondary firebreak cleared of all dead fuels shall be provided
and maintained. The size of the secondary firebreak shall be:
         (a)   On slopes of less than 10%, 50 feet beyond the primary
firebreak;
         (b)   On slopes of 11% to 25%, 75 feet beyond the primary firebreak;
         (c)   On slopes of 26% to 40%, 100 feet beyond the primary firebreak;
or
         (d)   On slopes greater than 40%, 150 feet beyond the primary
firebreak.
      (6)   All chimneys shall be equipped with a spark arrester;
      (7)   If a building is to be located on a parcel that is within a fire
protection district, the applicant shall provide evidence that the applicant
has asked to be included in such district;
      (8)   If a building is to be located on a lot or parcel that is not
within a fire protection district, the applicant shall either:
         (a)   Provide evidence that residential fire protection is provided to
the property by contract and that such contracted service is comparable to that
generally provided by fire protection districts in the rural areas of the
county; or
         (b)   On site fire protection means are provided. Such means shall
consist of:
            1.   Fire sprinkling system or systems;
            2.   On-site water storage and pumping equipment. Such a water
supply shall consist of a swimming pool, pond, lake, or similar body of water
that at all times contains at least 4,000 gallons or a stream with a minimum
flow of one CFS. Road access shall be provided to within 15 feet of the water’s
edge for fire fighting equipment and shall provide a turnaround for fire
fighting equipment; or
            3.   Other methods which provide at least a comparable level of
protection to that contained in division (F)(8)(b)1. and 2. above, and which
are reasonable given site conditions.
      (9)   No building shall exceed a height of 30 feet except for fire
towers.
   (G)   Fire safety design standards for roads. The following standards apply
to all roads and driveways which access uses permitted under divisions (A) and
(B) above, except for private roads accessing only commercial forest uses.
      (1)   Width. Access roads serving three or fewer buildings shall have a
12-foot improved width and a 20-foot horizontal clearance. Access roads serving
more than three buildings shall have a 16-foot improved width and a 20-foot
horizontal clearance.
      (2)   Construction.
         (a)   Access roads must be improved with an all weather surface.
Roads, bridges, and culverts shall be designed and maintained to support a
minimum gross vehicle weight (GVW) of 50,000 pounds.
         (b)   If bridges or culverts are involved in the construction of a
road or driveway, written verification of compliance with the 50,000 pound GVW
standard shall be provided by a professional engineer, registered in the state.
      (3)   Vertical clearance. Access roads shall have an unobstructed
vertical clearance of not less than 13.5 feet.
      (4)   Turnarounds. Dead-end roads over 150 feet in length shall provide a
turnaround adequate for emergency vehicles with a design approved by the Fire
Chief or Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Turnouts. Access roads greater than 400 feet in length shall have
turnouts at a maximum spacing of one-half the length of the access road or 400
feet, whichever is less. Turnouts shall be an all weather surface at least ten
feet wide and 40 feet long.
      (6)   Road grade.
         (a)   Road grades shall not exceed 12%, except that a maximum of 15%
may be permitted on pitches less than 200 feet long.
         (b)   Variations from these standards may be granted by the fire
service having responsibility for the area when topographic conditions make
these standards impractical and where the local fire protection district states
that their fire fighting equipment can negotiate the proposed road grades.
      (7)   Certification. The applicant shall provide an as-built
certification stamped by a licensed professional engineer registered in the
state verifying that road safety design standards set forth in this section
have been met.
(Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-
2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Water Protection Rules: Purpose, Goals, Classification, and Riparian
Management Areas, see Department of Forestry, O.A.R. 629, Division 635
   Water Protection Rules: Protection Measures for “Other Wetlands,” Seeps, and
Springs, see Department of Forestry, O.A.R. 629, Division 655
   Water Protection Rules: Riparian Management Areas and Protection Measures
for Lakes, see Department of Forestry, O.A.R. 629, Division 650
   Water Protection Rules: Riparian Management Areas and Protection Measures
for Significant Wetlands, see Department of Forestry, O.A.R. 629, Division 645
   Water Protection Rules: Specific Rules for Operations, see Department of
Forestry, O.A.R. 629, Division 660
   Water Protection Rules: Vegetation Retention along Streams, see Department
of Forestry, O.A.R. 629, Division 642
§ 152.038 PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE P-F.
   In a P-F Zone, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In a P-F Zone, the following uses are
permitted subject to the applicable provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter:
      (1)   Public parks and playgrounds, swimming pools, golf courses, or
similar recreation facility intended for use by the public;
      (2)   Public schools and associated facilities;
      (3)   Hospitals;
      (4)   Government use; and
      (5)   Solid waste disposal facility.
   (B)   Conditional uses permitted. Expansion of existing facilities that
would substantially increase overall capacity or the conversion of one outright
use to another may be permitted when authorized in accordance with the
provisions of §§
152.055 through
152.076, 152.115 through 152.117, 152.130 through 152.136, and 152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter:
      (1)   Expansion of public park and playground, golf course, swimming
pool, or similar recreation facility;
      (2)   Expansion of public schools and associated facilities;
      (3)   Expansion of hospitals;
      (4)   Expansion of government use;
      (5)   Expansion of solid waste disposal facility; and
      (6)   Conversion of one outright use to another outright use.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.039 COASTAL SHORELANDS OVERLAY ZONE C-S.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Coastal Shorelands Overlay Zone is to recognize
the value of coastal shorelands for protection and maintenance of water
quality, fish and wildlife habitat, water-dependent uses, economic resources,
recreation, and aesthetics.
      (2)   The C-S Zone, in conjunction with various underlying zones,
implements the coastal shorelands policies contained in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Application. The provisions of the C-S Zone shall apply to all areas
identified as within the coastal shorelands boundary on the shorelands boundary
map. The provisions of the C-S Zone are to be applied in conjunction with the
provisions of the underlying zone. Where the provisions of the C-S Zone and the
underlying zone conflict, the more restrictive provisions shall apply. For the
purposes of this section, coastal shorelands are those areas identified on the
shorelands boundary map and identified on the zoning map overlays located at
city hall. Coastal shorelands areas generally include one or more of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Subject to ocean flooding and lands within 100 feet of the ocean
shore, or within 50 feet of the estuary;
      (2)   Where the geologic instability is related to or will impact a
coastal waterbody;
      (3)   Natural or human-made riparian resources, especially vegetation
necessary to stabilize the shoreline and to maintain water quality and
temperature necessary for the maintenance of fish and wildlife habitat;
      (4)   Areas of significant shoreland and wetland biological habitats
whose habitat quality is primarily derived from or related to the association
with coastal water areas;
      (5)   Areas necessary for water-dependent and water-related uses,
including areas of recreational importance which utilize coastal water or
riparian resources, areas appropriate for navigation and port facilities,
dredge material disposal and mitigation sites, and areas having characteristics
suitable for aquaculture;
      (6)   Areas of exceptional aesthetic or scenic quality, where the quality
is primarily derived from or related to the association with coastal water
areas; and
      (7)   Coastal headlands.
   (C)   Permitted uses. In a C-S Overlay Zone, any of the outright or
conditional uses authorized in the underlying zone may be permitted, subject to
the applicable provisions of §§
152.040,
152.055 through
152.076,
152.115 through
152.117,
152.130 through
152.136,
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter, and the additional provisions of this section.
   (D)   Procedure. Applicants requesting approval for any development action
within the areas subject to the provisions of the C-S Zone shall submit, along
with any application, a detailed site plan and/or written statement
demonstrating how the proposed activities will conform to each of the
applicable standards contained in the C-S Zone. The Planning Commission shall
review the application to determine if each of the applicable criteria are met.
Planning Commission review of such applications shall proceed in accordance
with the applicable provisions of §§
152.130 through
152.136,
152.150 through
152.158,
152.170 through
152.173,
152.185 through
152.188,
152.200 through
152.210, and
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter. Building permit applications that do not enlarge or
extend existing structures nor have any ground disturbing activities are exempt
from Planning Commission review.
   (E)   Standards. The following standards will be applied in reviewing an
application for a development action in the C-S Zone.
      (1)   Riparian vegetation.
         (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            NATIVE PLANTS; NATIVE VEGETATION. Plant species that grow and
propagate themselves in coastal shoreland areas along the central Oregon coast
through natural processes, are adapted to the weather, soils, and hydrology of
the area, and which have evolved in the area or been introduced to the area by
natural causes. These plant species are to be distinguished from plant species
which have been deliberately or accidentally imported or introduced from other
areas by humans or human activities.
            ZONE OF RIPARIAN VEGETATION.
               a.   OCEAN AND ESTUARY. The area between the point of mean
higher high water and 50 feet landward measured on the horizontal.
               b.   STREAMS. Riparian vegetation is defined and shall be
protected subject to the standards in §
152.072 of this chapter.
         (b)   Protection. Ocean/estuary riparian vegetation shall be protected
except as provided for below:
            1.   Removal of riparian vegetation is permitted only in
conjunction with a use which requires direct access to water;
            2.   Removal of non-native vegetation to be replaced with native
vegetation is permitted subject to a re-vegetation plan approved by the city
which specifies temporary stabilization methods and the method and timing of
permanent re-vegetation with native species; and
            3.   Temporary removal of riparian vegetation may be permitted
where there exists no viable alternatives to disturbing the riparian area to
allow development on a lot. Such removal is subject to a revegetation plan
approved by the city which specifies temporary stabilization methods, and the
method and timing of permanent revegetation with native species, and subject to
the additional requirements below:
               a.   The riparian disturbance area (such as, for equipment
access or utility placement) shall be a single pathway of the minimum size and
length necessary and in no case be wider than 12 feet in width. The pathway
shall also be oriented in a manner to minimize riparian area disturbance (such
as, oriented perpendicular to the riparian area, not along it);
               b.   The disturbance pathway is chosen to avoid, to the maximum
extent possible, any trees that are six inches or greater in diameter as
measured four and one-half feet above the ground or large shrubs on the site.
Any site plan proposing a temporary disturbance to the riparian area must show
the location of all these trees, and all shrubs over five feet in height, in
relationship to this pathway; and
               c.   Temporary exclusionary fencing must be erected prior to the
start of construction at the outer boundaries of the disturbance pathway and
must remain in place until that phase of the construction is completed to
assure that no damage to areas outside of the access pathway occur.
         (c)   Except as provided for in division (E)(1)(b) above, no
development or development activities which could result in permanent
destruction of riparian vegetation shall be located within the zone of riparian
vegetation; and
         (d)   Degraded riparian areas (such as, with little or no native
vegetation) shall be restored and enhanced when development or redevelopment
occurs.
      (2)   Historic and archaeological sites. Sites subject to this section
are identified in the Comprehensive Plan inventory “open spaces, scenic and
historic areas, and natural resources.” Development in these areas shall not
diminish the values of such sites as historic or archaeological resources.
These sites are protected subject to requirements found in §
152.075 of this chapter.
      (3)   Exceptional aesthetic resources. Development in areas of
exceptional aesthetic resources or coastal headlands shall not substantially
alter the existing visual character of the area. Sites subject to this section
are identified in the Comprehensive Plan inventory “open spaces, scenic and
historic areas, and natural resources.” Standards for protecting such resources
are found in §
152.074 of this chapter.
      (4)   Protection of coastal access.
         (a)   Application. This section applies to public access sites
identified in the “Comprehensive Plan inventory” open spaces, scenic and
historic areas, and natural resources” and to others that become established
and added to the inventory (such as, under division (E)(4)(b) below). These
access sites provide physical or visual access to the ocean or bay. Other
public rights-of-way, easements, and ownerships may be discovered over time,
and/or legally obtained, or become a part of the city through annexation.
         (b)   Standards. Existing public ownerships, rights-of-way, and
similar public easements within the coastal shorelands which provide visual or
physical access to or along coastal waters shall be retained or replaced if
sold, exchanged, or transferred. Rights-of-way may be vacated to permit
redevelopment of shoreland areas provided public access across the affected
site of at least equivalent access value is retained.
(Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1985; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-
2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.040 FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY ZONE.
   (A)   Statutory authority, findings of fact, purpose, and methods.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The state has in O.R.S. 197.175 delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the city does ordain the following section.
      (2)   Findings of fact.
         (a)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health, and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
         (b)   These flood losses may be caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in special flood hazard areas which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, cause damage in other areas.
         (c)   Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise
protected from flood damage also contribute to flood loss.
      (3)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flooding in flood hazard areas by provisions designed to:
         (a)   Protect human life and health;
         (b)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
         (c)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         (d)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
         (e)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and
bridges located in special flood hazard areas;
 
         (f)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood hazard areas so as to minimize blight areas caused by
flooding;
         (g)   Notify potential buyers that the property is in a special flood
hazard area;
         (h)   Notify those who occupy special flood hazard areas that they
assume responsibility for their actions; and
         (i)   Participate in and maintain eligibility for flood insurance and
disaster relief.
      (4)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its
purposes, this section includes methods and provisions for:
         (a)   Restricting or prohibiting development which is dangerous to
health, safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result
in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
         (b)   Requiring that development vulnerable to floods, including
facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time
of initial construction;
         (c)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
         (d)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development
which may increase flood damage; and
         (e)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers
which will unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of
this section or a request for a variance.
      AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO
on a community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It
is shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) as Zone A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE,
A99, AR, V, VO, V1-30, or VE. “Special flood hazard area” is synonymous in
meaning and definition with the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation to which floodwater is
anticipated to rise during the base flood.
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
      BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
      COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
off-shore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      FLOOD or FLOODING.
         (a)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
            1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
            2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or run-off of surface
waters from any source; and
            3.   Mudslides (such as, mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding as defined this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
         (b)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in this definition.
      FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (such as, mudflow)
and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of a community, on
which the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM
that has been made available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate
map (DFIRM).
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
      FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate risk
of flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. Also referred to as “regulatory floodway.”
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.
         (a)   A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is
located or carried out in close proximity to water.
         (b)   The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that
are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
building and ship repair facilities, and does not include long-term storage or
related manufacturing facilities.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this section.
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not include a recreational vehicle and is
synonymous with MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured dwelling lots for rent
or sale.
      MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for
which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by the city and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement; the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days from the date of the permit. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured dwelling.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the city from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
      VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this section is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which this section applies. This section shall apply to
all special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the city.
      (2)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator in a
scientific and engineering report entitled the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for
Lincoln County, Oregon and Incorporated Areas, dated October 18, 2019, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) 41041C0229E, 41041C0233E,
41041C0237E, and 41041C0241E are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be
a part of this section. The FIS and FIRM panels are on file at the city hall,
570 SE Shell Avenue, Depoe Bay, OR.
      (3)   Coordination with State Specialty Codes. Pursuant to the
requirement established in O.R.S. Chapter 455 that the city administers and
enforces the State Specialty Codes, the city does hereby acknowledge that the
State Specialty Codes contain certain provisions that apply to the design and
construction of buildings and structures located in special flood hazard areas.
Therefore, this section is intended to be administered and enforced in
conjunction with the State Specialty Codes.
      (4)   Compliance and penalties for noncompliance.
         (a)   Compliance. All development within special flood hazard areas is
subject to the terms of this section and required to comply with its provisions
and all other applicable regulations.
         (b)   Penalties for noncompliance. No structure or land shall
hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full
compliance with the terms of this section and other applicable regulations.
Violations of the provisions of this section by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a penalty per §
152.999 of this chapter.
      (5)   Abrogation and severability.
         (a)   Abrogation. This section is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or
impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where
this section and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
         (b)   Severability. This section and the various parts thereof are
hereby declared to be severable. If any section clause, sentence, or phrase of
the section is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the
remaining portions of this section.
      (6)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
section, all provisions shall be:
         (a)   Considered as minimum requirements;
         (b)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
         (c)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
      (7)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
         (a)   Warning. The degree of flood protection required by this section
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This section
does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
         (b)   Disclaimer of liability. This section shall not create liability
on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
Insurance Administrator for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
section or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The City Planner and
their designee is hereby appointed to administer, implement, and enforce this
section by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The Floodplain Administrator may delegate authority to implement
these provisions.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties
of the Floodplain Administrator, or their designee, shall include, but not be
limited to the following.
         (a)   Permit review. Review all development permits to determine that:
            1.   The permit requirements of this section have been satisfied;
            2.   All other required local, state, and federal permits have been
obtained and approved;
            3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in a floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the floodway provisions of this section in division (E)(2)(d) below are met;
and
            4.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in an area where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
available either through the flood insurance study (FIS) or from another
authoritative source. If BFE data is not available, then ensure compliance with
the provisions of division (E)(1)(g) below;
            5.   Provide to building officials the base flood elevation (BFE)
and elevation of lowest floor, including basement, applicable to any building
requiring a development permit;
            6.   Review all development permit applications to determine if the
proposed development qualifies as a substantial improvement as defined in
division (B) above;
            7.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development activity is a watercourse alteration. If a watercourse alteration
is proposed, ensure compliance with the provisions in division (E)(1)(a) below;
and
            8.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development activity includes the placement of fill or excavation.
         (b)   Information to be obtained and maintained. The following
information shall be obtained and maintained and shall be made available for
public inspection as needed:
            1.   Obtain, record, and maintain the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basements) and all attendant
utilities of all new or substantially improved structures where base flood
elevation (BFE) data is provided through the flood insurance study (FIS), flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or obtained in accordance with division (E)(1)(g)
below;
            2.   Obtain and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the natural grade of the building site for a structure prior to the
start of construction and the placement of any fill and ensure that the
requirements of divisions (D)(2)(a)2., (E)(2)(d), and (E)(3)(a)6., are adhered
to;
            3.   Upon placement of the lowest floor of a structure (including
basement) but prior to further vertical construction, obtain documentation,
prepared and sealed by a professional licensed surveyor or engineer, certifying
the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement);
            4.   Where base flood elevation data are utilized, obtain as-built
certification of the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) prepared and sealed by a professional licensed
surveyor or engineer, prior to the final inspection;
            5.   Maintain all elevation certificates (EC) submitted to the
city;
            6.   Obtain, record, and maintain the elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) to which the structure and all attendant utilities were
floodproofed for all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures
where allowed under this section and where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided through the FIS, FIRM, or obtained in accordance with division (E)(1)
(g) below;
            7.   Maintain all floodproofing certificates required under this
section;
            8.   Record and maintain all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance;
            9.   Obtain and maintain all hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed as required under division (E)(2)(d) below;
            10.   Record and maintain all substantial improvement and
substantial damage calculations and determinations as required under division
(D)(2)(d) below; and
            11.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this section.
         (c)   Requirement to notify other entities and submit new technical
data.
            1.   Community boundary alterations. The Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed authority or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area, to ensure that all
flood hazard boundary maps (FHBM) and flood insurance rate maps (FIRM)
accurately represent the community’s boundaries. Include within such
notification a copy of a map of the community suitable for reproduction,
clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for which the
community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority.
            2.   Watercourse alterations. 
               a.   Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Land
Conservation and Development, and other appropriate state and federal agencies,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration. This notification
shall be provided by the applicant to the Federal Insurance Administration as a
letter of map revision (LOMR) along with either:
                  i.   A proposed maintenance plan to assure the flood-carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse is
maintained; or
                  ii.   Certification by a registered professional engineer
that the project has been designed to retain its flood-carrying capacity
without periodic maintenance.
               b.   The applicant shall be required to submit a conditional
letter of map revision (CLOMR) when required under division (D)(2)(d) below.
Ensure compliance with all applicable requirements in divisions (D)(2)(d) and
(E)(1)(a) below.
            3.   Requirement to submit new technical data.
               a.   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or
decrease resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon
as practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with 44
C.F.R. § 65.3. The community may require the applicant to submit such data and
review fees required for compliance with this section through the applicable
FEMA letter of map change (LOMC) process.
               b.   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional
letter of map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit
for:
                  i.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base
flood elevation; and
                  ii.   Proposed development which increases the base flood
elevation by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
               c.   An applicant shall notify FEMA within six months of project
completion when an applicant has obtained a conditional letter of map revision
(CLOMR) from FEMA. This notification to FEMA shall be provided as a letter of
map revision (LOMR).
               d.   The property owner shall be responsible for preparing all
technical data to support the LOMR application and paying any processing or
application fees associated with the LOMR.
The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the community
acknowledgment form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the
applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of
this code and all applicable state and federal laws.
         (d)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage assessments and
determinations. Conduct substantial improvement (SI) (as defined in division
(B) above) reviews for all structural development proposal applications and
maintain a record of SI calculations within permit files in accordance with
division (D)(2)(b) above. Conduct substantial damage (SD) (as defined in
division (B) above) assessments when structures are damaged due to a natural
hazard event or other causes. Make SD determinations whenever structures within
the special flood hazard area (as established in division (C)(2) above) are
damaged to the extent that the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.
      (3)   Establishment of development permit.
         (a)   Floodplain development permit required.
            1.   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area horizontally within the special flood hazard
area established in division (C)(2) above.
            2.   The development permit shall be required for all structures,
including manufactured dwellings, and for all other development, as defined in
division (B) above, including fill and other development activities.
         (b)   Application for development permit. Application for a
development permit may be made on forms furnished by the Floodplain
Administrator and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn
to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically the
following information is required:
            1.   In riverine flood zones, the proposed elevation (in relation
to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant
utilities of all new and substantially improved structures; in accordance with
the requirements of division (D)(2)(b) above;
            2.   In coastal flood zones (V Zones and coastal A Zones), the
proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the bottom of the lowest
structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings and columns) of all
structures, and whether such structures contain a basement;
            3.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
non-residential structure will be floodproofed;
            4.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or
architect licensed in the state that the floodproofing methods proposed for any
non-residential structure meet the floodproofing criteria for non-residential
structures in division (E)(2)(c)3. below;
            5.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated;
            6.   Base flood elevation data for subdivision proposals or other
development when required per division (D)(2)(a) above and (E)(1)(f) below;
            7.   Substantial improvement calculation for any improvement,
addition, reconstruction, renovation, or rehabilitation of an existing
structure; and
            8.   The amount and location of any fill or excavation activities
proposed.
      (4)   Variance procedure. The issuance of a variance is for floodplain
management purposes only. Flood insurance premium rates are determined by
federal statute according to actuarial risk and will not be modified by the
granting of a variance.
         (a)   Conditions for variances.
            1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, in conformance with the provisions of divisions (D)
(4)(a)3. and (D)(4)(a)5., and (D)(4)(b) below. As the lot size increases beyond
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing a variance
increases.
            2.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
            3.   Variances shall not be issued within any floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
            4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing laws or ordinances; and
               d.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction
and substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the
conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that the criteria of division
(D)(4)(a)2. through (D)(4)(a)4. above are met, and the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
         (b)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is
granted shall be given written notice that the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance and that such construction below the base
flood elevation increases risks to life and property. Such notification and a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance
shall be maintained in accordance with division (D)(2)(b) above.
   (E)   Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
      (1)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
standards shall be adhered to the following.
         (a)   Alteration of watercourses. Require that the flood-carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse is
maintained. Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse to ensure that the flood-carrying
capacity is not diminished. Require compliance with divisions (D)(2)(c)2. and
(D)(2)(c)3. above.
         (b)   Anchoring.
            1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
            2.   All manufactured dwellings shall be anchored per division (E)
(2)(c)4. below.
         (c)   Construction materials and methods.
            1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
            2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (d)   Utilities and equipment.
            1.   Water supply, sanitary sewer, and on-site waste disposal
systems.
               a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
               b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharge from the systems into flood waters.
               c.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with
the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
            2.   Electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and other equipment.
Electrical, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and
other equipment and service facilities shall be elevated one foot or more above
the base flood level or shall be designed and installed to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components and to resist hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of flooding. In addition, electrical, heating, ventilating, air-
conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and other equipment and service
facilities shall:
               a.   If replaced as part of a substantial improvement, shall
meet all the requirements of this section; and
               b.   Not be mounted on or penetrate through breakaway walls.
         (e)   Tanks.
            1.   Underground tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement under conditions of the base flood.
            2.   Above-ground tanks shall be installed one foot or more above
the base flood level or shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement under conditions of the base flood.
            3.   In coastal flood zones (V Zones or coastal A Zones) when
elevated on platforms, the platforms shall be cantilevered from or knee braced
to the building or shall be supported on foundations that conform to the
requirements of the State Specialty Code.
         (f)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed developments.
            1.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals, base flood elevation data.
            2.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
shall:
               a.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
               b.   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage; and
               c.   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
         (g)   Use of other base flood data.
            1.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in
accordance with division (C)(2) above, the local Floodplain Administrator shall
obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available
from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer this division
(E). All new subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured dwelling parks and subdivisions) must
meet the requirements of division (E)(1)(f) above.
            2.   Base flood elevations shall be determined for development
proposals that are five acres or more in size or are 50 lots or more, whichever
is lesser in any A Zone that does not have an established base flood elevation
proposals in compliance with State Specialty Codes, with the exception of
development proposals located within a riverine unnumbered A Zone.
            3.   Development proposals located within a riverine unnumbered A
Zone shall be reasonably safe from flooding; the test of reasonableness
includes use of historical data, high water marks, FEMA provided base level
engineering data, and photographs of past flooding, and the like, where
available.
            4.   The reasonably safe elevation standard for residential
structures is at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade. Failure to
elevate at least two feet above grade in these zones may result in higher
insurance rates.
         (h)   Structures located in multiple or partial flood zones. In
coordination with the State Specialty Codes:
            1.   When a structure is located in multiple flood zones on the
community’s flood insurance rate maps (FIRM), the provisions for the more
restrictive flood zone shall apply; and
            2.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood
hazard area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new
construction and substantial improvements.
      (2)   Specific standards for riverine (including all non-coastal) flood
zones. These specific standards shall apply to all new construction and
substantial improvements in addition to the general standards contained in
division (E)(1) above.
         (a)   Flood openings. All new construction and substantial
improvements with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) are subject to the following requirements. Enclosed areas below the
base flood elevation, including crawl spaces shall:
            1.   Be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on walls by allowing for the entry and exist of floodwaters;
            2.   Be used solely for parking, storage, or building access;
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed all of the following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings;
               b.   The total net area of non-engineered openings shall be not
less than one square inch for each square foot of enclosed area, where the
enclosed area is measured on the exterior of the enclosure walls;
               c.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
               d.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they shall allow the automatic flow of
floodwater into and out of the enclosed areas and shall be accounted for in the
determination of the net open area; and
               e.   All additional higher standards for flood openings in the
State Residential Specialty Code § R322.2.2 shall be complied with when
applicable.
         (b)   Garages.
            1.   Attached garages may be constructed with the garage floor slab
below the base flood elevation (BFE) in riverine flood zones, if the following
requirements are met:
               a.   If located within a floodway, the proposed garage must
comply with the requirements of division (E)(2)(d) below;
               b.   The floors are at or above grade on not less than one side;
               c.   The garage is used solely for parking, building access,
and/or storage;
               d.   The garage is constructed with flood openings in compliance
with division (E)(2)(a) above to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater;
               e.   The portions of the garage constructed below the BFE are
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
               f.   The garage is constructed in compliance with the standards
in division (E)(1) above; and
               g.   The garage is constructed with electrical, and other
service facilities located and installed so as to prevent water from entering
or accumulating within the components during conditions of the base flood.
            2.   Detached garages must be constructed in compliance with the
standards for appurtenant structures in division (E)(2)(c)6. below for non-
residential structures in division (E)(2)(c)3. below depending on the square
footage of the garage.
         (c)   For riverine (non-coastal) special flood hazard areas with base
flood elevations. In addition to the general standards listed in division (E)
(1) above, the following specific standards shall apply in riverine (non-
coastal) special flood hazard areas with base flood elevations (BFE): Zones A1-
A30, AH, and AE.
            1.   Before regulatory floodway. In areas where a regulatory
floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial improvement,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM), unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
            2.   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to one-foot or more above the base flood elevation (BFE).
Enclosed areas below the lowest floor shall comply with the flood opening
requirements in division (E)(2)(a) above.
            3.   Non-residential construction.
               a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any
commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure shall:
                  i.   Have the lowest floor, including basement elevated to
one foot or more above the base flood elevation (BFE) or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities;
                  ii.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
                  iii.   Have structural components capable of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
                  iv.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting provisions of this section based on
their development and/or review of the structural design, specifications, and
plans.
                  v.   Such certifications shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in division (D)(2)(b) above.
               b.   Non-residential structures that are elevated, not
floodproofed, shall comply with the standards for enclosed areas below the
lowest floor in division (E)(2)(a) above.
               c.   Applicants floodproofing non-residential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one-foot
below the floodproofed level (such as, a building floodproofed to the base
flood level will be rated as one-foot below.
            4.   Manufactured dwellings.
               a.   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings
supported on solid foundation walls shall be constructed with flood openings
that comply with division (E)(2)(a) above;
               b.   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam shall be
at or above base flood elevation;
               c.   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement during the
base flood. Anchoring methods may include, but are not limited to, use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors (reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home
Installation in Flood Hazard Areas guidebook for additional techniques); and
               d.   Electrical cross-over connections shall be a minimum of 12
inches above base flood elevation (BFE).
            5.   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites
are required to:
               a.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
               b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels
or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
               c.   Meet the requirements of division (E)(2)(c)4. above,
including the anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured dwellings.
            6.   Appurtenant (accessory) structures. Relief from elevation or
floodproofing requirements for residential and non-residential structures in
riverine (non-coastal) flood zones may be granted for appurtenant structures
that meet the following requirements:
               a.   Appurtenant structures located partially or entirely within
the floodway must comply with requirements for development within a floodway
found in division (E)(2)(d) below;
               b.   Appurtenant structures must only be used for parking,
access, and/or storage and shall not be used for human habitation;
               c.   In compliance with State Specialty Codes, appurtenant
structures on properties that are zoned residential are limited to one-story
structures less than 200 square feet, or 400 square feet if the property is
greater than two acres in area and the proposed appurtenant structure will be
located a minimum of 20 feet from all property lines. Appurtenant structures on
properties that are zoned as non-residential are limited in size to 120 square
feet;
               d.   The portions of the appurtenant structure located below the
base flood elevation must be built using flood resistant materials;
               e.   The appurtenant structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy,
during conditions of the base flood;
               f.   The appurtenant structure must be designed and constructed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls and comply with the
requirements for flood openings in division (E)(2)(a) above;
               g.   Appurtenant structures shall be located and constructed to
have low damage potential;
               h.   Appurtenant structures shall not be used to store toxic
material, oil, or gasoline, or any priority persistent pollutant identified by
the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality unless confined in a tank
installed in compliance with division (E)(1)(e) above; and
               i.   Appurtenant structures shall be constructed with
electrical, mechanical, and other service facilities located and installed so
as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of the base flood.
         (d)   Floodways. Located within the special flood hazard areas
established in division (C)(2) above are areas designated as floodways.
            1.   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of the floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and
erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
            2.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless:
               a.   Certification by a registered professional civil engineer
is provided demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed
in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment
shall not result in any increase in flood levels within the community during
the occurrence of the base flood discharge; or
               b.   A community may permit encroachments within the adopted
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations,
provided that a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is applied for and
approved by the Federal Insurance Administrator, and the requirements for such
revision as established under Volume 44 of C.F.R. § 65.12 are fulfilled.
            3.   If the requirements of division (E)(2)(d)1. above are
satisfied, all new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development shall comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction
provisions of this division (E).
         (e)   Standards for shallow flooding areas.
            1.   Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMs as AO Zones with depth
designations or as AH Zones with base flood elevations. For AO Zones, the base
flood depths range from one to three feet above ground where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is usually characterized as
sheet flow.
            2.   For both AO and AH Zones, adequate drainage paths are required
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
               a.   Standards for AH Zones. Development within AH Zones must
comply with the standards in division (E)(1), (E)(2), and (E)(2)(e)1. above.
               b.   Standards for AO Zones. In AO Zones, the following
provisions apply in addition to the requirement in division (E)(2)(e)1. above.
                  i.   New construction and substantial improvement of
residential structures and manufactured dwellings within AO Zones shall have
the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one-foot or more above the
highest grade adjacent to the building. For manufactured dwellings, the lowest
floor is considered to be the bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam.
                  ii.   New construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures within AO Zones shall either:
                     A.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
one-foot or more above the highest adjacent grade of the building site; or
                     B.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be completely floodproofed to or one-foot or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM, so that any space below that level is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is used, compliance
shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as stated
in division (E)(2)(c)3.a.iv below.
                  iii.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO Zones
on the community’s flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) shall either:
                     A.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
                     B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
                     C.   Meet the requirements of (insert citation) above,
including the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured dwellings.
                  iv.   In AO Zones, new and substantially improved appurtenant
structures must comply with the standards in division (E)(2)(c)6. above.
                  v.   In AO Zones, enclosed areas beneath elevated structures
shall comply with the requirements in division (E)(2)(a) above.
      (3)   Specific standards for coastal high hazard flood zones. Located
within special flood hazard areas established in division (C)(2) above are
coastal high hazard areas, designated as Zones V1-V30, VE, V, or coastal A
Zones as identified on the FIRMs as the area between the limit of moderate wave
action (LiMWA) and the Zone V boundary. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with high velocity waters from surges and, therefore, in addition to
meeting all provisions of this section and the State Specialty Codes, the
following provisions shall apply in addition to the general standards
provisions in division (E)(1) above.
         (a)   Development standards.
            1.   All new construction and substantial improvements in Zones V1-
V30 and VE, V, and coastal A Zones (where base flood elevation data is
available) shall be elevated on pilings and columns such that:
               a.   The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated a minimum of
one foot above the base flood level; and
               b.   The pile or column foundation and structure attached
thereto is anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement due to
the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building
components. Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood. Wind loading values used shall be those specified by the State Specialty
Codes.
            2.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
or review the structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction to
be used are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the
provisions of this section.
            3.   Obtain the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
bottom of the lowest structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings
and columns) of all new and substantially improved structures and whether or
not such structures contain a basement. The local Floodplain Administrator
shall maintain a record of all such information in accordance with division (D)
(2)(b) above.
            4.   Provide that all new construction and substantial improvements
have the space below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed
with non-supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work, or insect
screening intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing
collapse, displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of
the building or supporting foundation system.
            5.   For the purpose of this section, a breakaway wall shall have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds
per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading
resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required
by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions:
               a.   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from water load less
than that which would occur during the base flood;
               b.   If breakaway walls are utilized, such enclosed space shall
be useable solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Such
space shall not be used for human habitation; and
               c.   Walls intended to break away under flood loads shall have
flood openings that meet or exceed the criteria for flood openings in division
(E)(2)(a) above.
            6.   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). Maximum water loading
values to be used in this determination shall be those associated with the base
flood. Maximum wind loading values used shall be those specified by the State
Specialty Codes.
            7.   Prohibit the use of fill for structural support of buildings.
            8.   All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of
mean high tide.
            9.   Prohibit human-made alteration of sand dunes which would
increase potential flood damage.
            10.   All structures, including but not limited to residential
structures, non-residential structures, appurtenant structures, and attached
garages shall comply with all the requirements of division (E)(3)(a) above.
Floodproofing of non-residential structures is prohibited.
         (b)   Manufactured dwelling standards for coastal high hazard zones.
All manufactured dwellings to be placed or substantially improved within
coastal high hazard areas (Zones V, V1-30, VE, or Coastal A) shall meet the
following requirements:
            1.   Comply with all of the standards within division (E)(3) above;
            2.   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam shall be
elevated to a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE); and
            3.   Electrical cross-over connections shall be a minimum of 12
inches above the BFE.
         (c)   Recreational vehicle standards for coastal high hazard zones.
Recreational vehicles within coastal high hazard areas (Zones V, V1-30, VE, or
Coastal A) shall either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements of division (D) above and the
requirements for manufactured homes in division (E)(3)(b) above.
         (d)   Tank standards for coastal high hazard zones. Tanks shall meet
the requirements of division (E)(1)(e) above.
(Ord. 320, passed 10-15-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.041 LIMITED LAND USE OVERLAY ZONE L-LU.
   (A)   Purpose. To define the uses allowable and/or standards on a specific
area of land more narrowly than allowed by the underlying zone.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   The Limited Land Use Overlay Zone shall be applied for, or amended,
using the procedures for ordinance and Comprehensive Plan amendments set forth
in §§
152.185 through
152.188 of this chapter.
      (2)   A Limited Land Use Overlay Zone may be enacted on lands with
respect to any area within any zoning category within the city zoning
jurisdiction.
      (3)   The Limited Land Use Overlay Zone cannot allow a land use not
otherwise allowed in the underlying zone.
      (4)   A Limited Land Use Overlay Zone shall comply with all provisions of
the Comprehensive Plan and state statutes.
      (5)   The development standards of the underlying zone shall continue to
apply to lands designated as a Limited Land Use Overlay Zone except when
specifically made more restrictive.
      (6)   Lands within a Limited Land Use Overlay Zone shall be used only for
the specific use or uses, or special standards of the overlay zone.
   (C)   General requirements for establishing a limited land use overlay zone.
In addition to the provisions of division (B) above, a Limited Land Use Overlay
Zone must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The area is unique and there are reasons why the limited land use
overlay is needed that do not generally apply elsewhere in the city;
      (2)   There is a minimum of 100% approval of the limited land use overlay
from the property owners within the proposed limited land use area and minimum
60% approval from those owners within 250 feet;
      (3)   The area must be composed of multiple, contiguous properties;
      (4)   Special standards are required, in addition to limiting the uses,
to maintain the character of the area. The Planning Commission may impose such
additional standards as may be required for the particular area for which an
overlay zone is requested; and
      (5)   The reasons asserted as a basis for the limited land use
application do not arise from a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Official zoning map. Concurrent with the adoption of an ordinance
establishing a Limited Land Use Overlay Zone, the official zoning map shall be
amended to indicate the subject property is subject to a Limited Land Use
Overlay Zone designation.
   (E)   Review of section. No earlier than the thirtieth month and no later
than the thirty-fifth after the date of adoption of this section, this section
shall be reviewed by the City Council at two public hearings scheduled for the
purpose. The hearings shall be held on two separate days at least 30 days apart
from each other. The hearings shall be conducted to determine the desirability
of continuing the Limited Land Use Overlay Zone and shall follow any procedure
determined to be appropriate by the City Council, if the Council for any reason
fails to conduct the hearings described in this section, this section shall
nevertheless continue in full force and effect.
   (F)   Repeal of section. In the event that this section is repealed, any
Limited Land Use Overlay Zone adopted prior to such repeal shall continue as a
permitted use.
(Ord. 260, passed 12-3-2002) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.042 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ZONE (P-D).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the planned development procedure is to
encourage and promote creativity and innovation in site planning, design, and
development through the application of flexible land development standards.
Application of the planned development procedure is intended to:
      (1)   Allow for and encourage development designs which provide suitable
recognition of the physical, topographic, cultural, historical, and natural
resource values and constraints present on a particular site;
      (2)   Respect the surrounding context and enhance community character;
      (3)   Provide open space;
      (4)   Provide pedestrian and bicycle facilities, such as sidewalks in
commercial and high density areas, hiking trails, and bicycle trails;
      (5)   Permit greater flexibility in the siting of buildings and other
physical improvements, and in the mixing of housing types, in order to
accomplish desirable design objectives;
      (6)   Provide adequate, structurally sound public and private streets and
utilities;
      (7)   Ensure that development occurs in a manner consistent with the
intent and purpose of the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan;
      (8)   Ensure the safety of the residents of the city and visitors to the
city;
      (9)   Allow logical, efficient development or redevelopment of adjacent
properties within the P-D and properties adjacent to the P-D;
      (10)   Supersede the provisions of §§
152.250 through
152.265 of this chapter when the latter are expressly contrary to a specific
provision of this section, or upon application to and approval by the Planning
Commission, provided such approval is consistent with the purpose of this
section; and
      (11)   Allow for flexibility of land uses, such as allow tourist
accommodations in residential zones with standards and ensure the developer
and/or management company is responsible for all management of the tourist
accommodation, including but not limited to responding to noise, trash,
overcrowding, and parking complaints. The intent is to place all responsibility
on the developer, management, HOA, or property owner, provide the public with
easily-accessible management contact, and minimize city time and expense
related to the tourist accommodation use.
   (B)   General requirements. The following general requirements shall govern
planned developments.
      (1)   A planned development may be established in any zone other than the
T-C Zone.
      (2)   On land subject to an approved planned development, only those
uses, structures, and other forms of development, which have been set forth and
authorized in a development plan approved in accordance with the provisions of
this section, or accessory use to such forms of development, may be
established.
      (3)   (a)   A planned development may include any uses permitted outright
or conditionally in the underlying zone. Where the underlying zone is
residential, any uses permitted in R-1 through R-5 Zones may be permitted when
compatible with each other and harmonious with adjacent uses.
         (b)   The one exception to division (B)(3)(a) above is the possible
approval of short-term rentals (tourist accommodations per § 152.003 of this
chapter and including time shares) to the planned development. The total area
of the development that may be allocated to tourist accommodations in
residential zoned areas shall be equal to or less than 15% of the total land
area of the underlying R-1 through R5 Zones. A planned development with tourist
accommodations in residential zones shall have a minimum of five contiguous
acres. Tourist accommodations in residential zones shall be limited to single-
family and two-family dwellings with a maximum number of five bedrooms. The
tourist accommodation area shall be contiguous, cohesive, compatible with the
entire development (use, architectural, traffic, and the like), buffered
(space, sight, and sound buffered) from all adjacent uses other than commercial
uses, and buffered from adjacent properties that are outside of the P-D. The
following city standards shall apply, and the management entity may establish
additional standards. These following standards shall be part of the tourist
accommodation area CC&Rs.
            1.   Nuisance control. No noise, lights, dust, smoke, odors, and
electromagnetic frequencies generated on-site in excess of the amounts normally
associated with residential uses shall emanate off-site or interfere with
surrounding residential or commercial uses.
            2.   Lighting. Outside lighting shall be restricted to low voltage
lighting and/or motion sensor lighting for security.
            3.   Off-street parking. For tourist accommodation dwelling uses,
off-street parking space requirements are:
               a.   A single-family or two-family dwelling shall have one on-
site parking space for each bedroom. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be
provided per dwelling;
               b.   A multi-family dwelling shall have one parking space for
each bedroom located immediately adjacent to the unit. A minimum of two parking
spaces shall be provided per dwelling;
               c.   A parking lot for overflow vehicles, consisting of one
additional space per dwelling unit, that shall be in the immediate area of the
tourist accommodations; and
               d.   If a dwelling unit is a residence plus a tourist
accommodation, two additional spaces are required on the same property.
            4.   Solid waste disposal. For tourist accommodation dwelling uses,
a minimum 96-gallon vessel shall be provided for each unit, and the unit shall
have “carry-out”/“valet” (no need to put vessels at curb) service. A multi-unit
dumpster type unit may be substituted, it must be enclosed to the sight-line.
Weekly solid waste pick-up is required during all months of the year.
            5.   State law compliance. It is the property owner’s
responsibility to ensure that a tourist accommodation dwelling use remains in
substantial compliance with state regulations for the following: health,
safety, Building Code, Fire Code, tourist accommodation statutes, and the
Uniform Housing Code.
            6.   Occupancy. Tourist accommodation dwellings shall not exceed
two persons per bedroom plus one additional person per dwelling.
            7.   Signage. The management entity shall only have one exterior
on-site sign for the tourist accommodation area. The sign shall identify the
site as a tourist accommodation area; identify a local contact person; state
that the local contact person is available 24 hours each day, seven days a week
to handle rentals and complaints; and identify the local contact person’s
business license number. An interior sign with this same information shall be
placed inside each tourist accommodation in a noticeable location, such as,
near the front door or in the kitchen.
            8.   Business license. For a tourist accommodation dwelling, the
property owner and property management company are required to have a city
business license. In addition, for tourist accommodation dwelling uses,
transient room tax ordinance provisions shall apply.
            9.   Revocation. Any violation of the requirements or standards of
this P-D Zone or any other city ordinance may result in revocation of the
transient rental unit business license.
      (4)   Overall residential density shall be as provided for in the
underlying zone or zones. Density shall be computed based on the total gross
land area of the subject property, excluding area devoted to commercial or
other non-residential uses allowed in the underlying zone and resources
protected under Goal 5, but including common areas.
      (5)   No building shall exceed the height allowed in the underlying zone.
      (6)   Yards, setbacks, lot area, lot coverage, and similar dimensional
requirements may be reduced, adjusted, or otherwise modified upon application
to, and approval by the Planning Commission, consistent with the design
objectives of the proposed development.
      (7)   In the event of a conflict between any applicable use zone
provision and the allowances, limitations, or requirements of an approved
preliminary plan, the approved preliminary plan shall control.
      (8)   A planned development shall have a minimum of two contiguous acres,
exclusive of street right-of-way. A planned development with tourist
accommodations in residential zones shall have a minimum of five contiguous
acres.
      (9)   Excluding streets and parking, at least 35% of the land will be
dedicated or reserved for outdoor recreation, park, or natural land.
      (10)   Paved concrete sidewalks shall be provided in commercial areas and
along Highway 101. The exception to this is the Highway 101 right-of-way and
the adjacent 40-foot wide designated forested corridor on both sides of Highway
101 right-of-way from south point street south to the city limits which shall
instead include a four-foot wide walking/biking path (§
152.074(B)(3) of this chapter applies). The planned development shall also
include a connected pedestrian system/network.
      (11)   Parking shall conform to §
152.058 and Diagram A of §
152.031, with the exception that all parking areas shall be paved.
      (12)   A minimum 5% of a parking area shall be landscaped. Landscaping in
parking and common open space areas shall be installed according to plans
approved by the city. Landscaping shall be installed in all yards adjacent to a
public or private street prior to final building inspections.
      (13)   Natural existing landscaping may be used to meet landscaping
requirements. Landscape design and landscaping areas shall serve their intended
functions and shall not adversely impact surrounding areas. Required
landscaping shall include a mix of vertical elements (trees) and horizontal
elements (grass, shrubs, ground cover, and the like). Section
152.074 of this chapter applies. Landscaped areas and open space shall be
maintained. Invasive plant materials, as identified by the USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service state listed noxious weeds shall be removed and
shall not be planted.
   (C)   General approval process. At a minimum, a preliminary plan and lastly
a final plan shall be submitted for approval for all planned developments. Once
the preliminary plan is approved and the final engineered plans are reviewed
and approved by the city, work on the development’s infrastructure may proceed.
The final plan is primarily an as-built of the streets and infrastructure, and
no building permits shall be approved until the effective date of the final
approval of the plan. If the planned development is to be developed in a number
of individual sections or phases, each which is developed separate from the
others (a phased planned development), a master plan shall first be submitted
for approval. Once the master plan for the entire development is approved, each
phase (section) of the development shall follow the standard preliminary plan
and final plan process.
      (1)   If the planned development is a phased planned development, the
initial step is the submission of the master plan for the entire development,
which shall be submitted for approval as per division (D) below.
         (a)   The master plan is the over-arching plan of the entire
development and of all phases. The primary purpose of a master plan is to
propose and establish the development’s overall concept, overall planning, and
the integration of all phases. Master plan approval does not permit development
or construction to occur.
         (b)   If a master plan for a phased development is approved, the
applicant or its successor shall obtain separate preliminary and final
approvals for each phase. For each individual phase, a preliminary plan shall
be submitted for approval as per division (E) below prior to any work starting
on the infrastructure of that phase.
         (c)   If a preliminary plan for an individual phase impacts the master
plan, an updated master plan shall be submitted with that preliminary plan.
         (d)   A master plan is not required for a planned development that is
not using a phased development approach.
      (2)   For a planned development that is not a phased planned development,
the initial step of a planned development is the submission of a preliminary
plan for the complete development, which shall be submitted for approval as per
division (E) below. Work on the development’s infrastructure may only proceed
once the preliminary plan is approved.
      (3)   A final plan shall be submitted for approval as per division (H)
below upon completion of all conditions and requirements of the individual
phase preliminary plan or the entire development’s preliminary plan. No
building permits shall be approved until the effective date of the final
approval of the final plan.
   (D)   Master plan. A master plan for planned developments shall be developed
as follows.
      (1)   Master plan review procedure. The procedure for application and
review of a master plan shall be as set forth in §
152.204(C) of this chapter.
      (2)   Content of master plan. Application for master plan approval of a
planned development shall include all items described in division (F) below. In
addition, the following shall be included:
         (a)   A narrative describing the plans for phasing (if applicable);
         (b)   A summary describing the general locations for any reducing,
adjusting, or otherwise modifying yards, setbacks, lot area, lot coverage, and
similar dimensional requirements of this chapter; and
         (c)   A summary describing the general locations for any desired
variances, exceptions, deviations, waivers, conditional uses, zone changes, and
the like, and a supporting narrative that acknowledges the zoning application
procedure and criteria order to obtain each approval.
      (3)   Approval on findings. Master plan approval by the Planning
Commission shall be based on findings that criteria described in division (G)
below are satisfied.
      (4)   Approval date. Master plan approval is valid from the date all
legal appeals are exhausted. Changes to an approved master plan require an
application for a master plan amendment to be reviewed and approved by the
Planning Commission as set forth in §
152.204(C) of this chapter.
   (E)   Preliminary plan. A preliminary plan for planned developments shall be
developed as follows.
      (1)   Submittal. A preliminary plan shall be submitted for a non-phased
planned development.
      (2)   Phase development. For a phased development, a preliminary plan
shall be submitted for each phase of development.
         (a)   A preliminary plan may be submitted for a phase concurrent with
a master plan application. The Planning Commission will review the preliminary
plan the meeting after the master plan is approved.
         (b)   Each phase shall meet the criteria of divisions (E)(4), (F), and
(G) below independently of the other phases.
      (3)   Preliminary plan review procedure. The procedure for application
and review of a preliminary plan, which shall be as set forth in §
152.204(C).
      (4)   Content of preliminary plan. Application for preliminary plan
approval of a planned development shall include all items described in division
(F) below. In addition, the following shall be included:
         (a)   Proposed covenants, restrictions, bylaws, and the like of any
homeowners associations and any taxing districts;
         (b)   A narrative describing the locations for any divergence from
this chapter in the form of reducing, adjusting, or otherwise modifying yards,
setbacks, lot area, lot coverage, and similar dimensional requirements;
         (c)   Submittal of any requests for variances, exceptions, deviations,
waivers, conditional uses, and the like; and
         (d)   A narrative describing the specific area of any short-term
rentals and describing how the rentals will be managed, policed, the city
transient room tax (TRT) and the city transient occupancy tax (TOT) are
collected, and city TRT and TOT are forwarded to the city.
      (5)   Approval; findings. Preliminary plan approval by the Planning
Commission shall be based on findings that criteria described in division (G)
below are satisfied.
      (6)   Approval; final engineering plans. Based on the preliminary plan
approval, the applicant is required to submit final engineering plans to be
reviewed and approved by the city prior to any construction. The applicant
shall be responsible for all costs the city may incur by hiring a professional
engineer to review and comment on the final engineering plans.
      (7)   Time limit of preliminary plan approval. Approval of a preliminary
plan in accordance with this section is valid after the exhaustion of all
appeals (see §
152.208). Infrastructure (streets and utilities) shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with current design standards unless specific
exceptions are granted by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Common content of master plan and preliminary plan. In addition to the
forms prescribed by the city, an application for master plan approval or a
preliminary plan approval of a planned development shall include the following:
      (1)   A site plan map or maps depicting:
         (a)   All proposed residential and non-residential land uses;
         (b)   Any proposed tourist accommodation area in a residential zoned
area, describing the type, location, and number of each type of tourist
accommodation (house, apartment, hotel, condo, time-share, and the like), also
showing and describing the buffering from adjacent uses;
         (c)   Parking areas and lots, showing number of spaces;
         (d)   Proposed lot or parcel boundaries;
         (e)   Proposed roads;
         (f)   Proposed pedestrian system and facilities;
         (g)   Significant natural features, such as wetland, streams courses,
environmental hazards, and fish and wildlife habitat areas; and
         (h)   Proposed open space, recreation areas, or other common elements,
and approximate topography with contour intervals of not more than ten feet.
      (2)   Drawings of the architectural styles of the different areas of the
development;
      (3)   A written narrative describing the character of the proposed
development, the manner in which it has been designed to conform to divisions
(A) and (B) above, including detailed discussion of how the proposal conforms
to the requirements of division (G) below, how the development meets the
parking requirements of the §
152.058 of this chapter, proposed methods of providing sewer, water, storm
drainage, and other utility services, the method proposed for ownership,
funding, and maintenance of common areas, buildings, structures, roads, open
space, landscaping, parking areas, fences, buffers and/or sight, sound barriers
to adjacent properties, or other facilities, public access to and use of the
aforementioned, and the proposed time schedule of development; and
      (4)   Other maps or narrative materials needed to determine compliance
with any applicable provisions of this chapter, as determined by initial review
of the application for completeness.
   (G)   Common master plan and preliminary plan approval criteria. Approval by
the Planning Commission of a master plan or a preliminary plan of a planned
development shall be based on findings that the following criteria are
satisfied:
      (1)   All applicable requirements of this section are met;
      (2)   The proposed development is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan
goals and policies, and zoning provisions for the area;
      (3)   Per §
152.251 of this chapter, the provisions of §§
152.250 through
152.265 of this chapter shall be applicable to approval criteria unless
expressly contrary to a specific provision of this section;
      (4)   The proposed development will provide the following amenities or
protections at a higher level than would otherwise be provided under
conventional land development procedure: protection of significant natural and
cultural features and resources, such as historical, scientific, and cultural
resources, fish and wildlife habitats, stream corridors, riparian areas, and
wetlands; maintenance, enhancement or establishment of natural vegetation,
especially indigenous plant communities; protection of scenic and aesthetic
qualities; and creation of a high quality built environment which harmonizes
with the natural and physical features of the site and includes design features
such as, as examples only, suitably located open space, recreation facilities,
and other common facilities for inhabitants of the planned development;
includes pedestrian oriented development which reduces reliance on automobile
travel, and provides similar measures to promote energy conservation, or
avoidance of risks and costs associated with environmental hazards;
      (5)   In acting to approve, the Commission shall be mindful of the
purposes of this section by encouraging and promoting creativity and innovation
in site planning, and by allowing for flexibility in the application of design
standards. The Commission may also impose any conditions or limitations it
finds necessary to achieve compliance with any provisions of this section; and
      (6)   The proposed development is in substantial harmony with the area at
least 250 feet outside the boundary of the proposed development. In the case of
a phased planned development, all phases shall also be in visible agreement
with each other architecturally and otherwise.
   (H)   Final plan. Upon completion of all conditions and requirements of a
preliminary plan, application may be made for final approval in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
      (1)   Final plan review procedure. The procedure for application and
review of a request for final plan approval shall be as set forth in §
152.204(C).
      (2)   Certifications required for final plan approval. Requests for final
plan approval shall be accompanied by the following certifications, as
applicable:
         (a)   A copy of all covenants and restrictions;
         (b)   Copies of legal documents required for dedication of public
facilities or for the creation of a homeowner’s association;
         (c)   As-built certifications for all required roads and utilities;
         (d)   If the planned development involves a division of land, the
certifications required by §§
152.250 through
152.265 of this chapter; and
         (e)   Other certifications required as a condition of the preliminary
plan approval.
      (3)   Final plan approval criteria. The Commission shall approve a final
plan provided that:
         (a)   The submitted final plan is in substantial conformance with the
approved preliminary plan and master plan (if a phased planned development);
and
         (b)   All of the certifications required by division (H)(2) above have
been submitted in proper form.
      (4)   Permits. No building permits shall be approved until the effective
date of the final approval of the final plan.
   (I)   Retroactivity. The provisions in this section shall not apply to
planned developments, or phases thereof, which were granted preliminary plan
approval prior to the effective date of this section. In those cases the prior
version of this section shall apply, unless said approval expires without
applicant having obtained the final approval.
   (J)   Amending an approved planned development master plan or preliminary
plan. When a developer or owner desires to deviate from an approved master plan
or preliminary plan, any applicable documents that would result in modification
from that change shall be submitted for approval. The review process is
identical as a new planned development approval. As a result of the change, the
Planning Commission may require changes to approved uses, structures, and other
forms of development to ensure the proposed development remains consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan goals, policies, and zoning ordinance provisions for the
area, and to ensure all areas of the planned development remain in harmony
following division (A) and (B) of this section.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 310, passed 11-1-
2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 152.055 CLEAR VISION AREAS.
   A clear vision area shall be maintained on the corners of all property at
the intersection of two streets or a street and an alley.
   (A)   A clear vision area shall consist of a triangular area, two sides of
which are lot lines measured from the corner intersection of the street lot
lines for a distance specified in this regulation, or, where the lot lines have
rounded corners, the lot lines extended in a straight line to a point of
intersection and so measured, and the third side of which is a line across the
corner of the lot joining the non-intersecting end of the other two sides.
   (B)   A clear vision area shall contain no planting, fence, wall, structure,
or temporary or permanent obstruction exceeding three and one-half feet in
height measured from the top of the curb or, where no curb exists, from the
established street center line grade, except that trees exceeding this height
may be located in this area, provided all branches and foliage are removed to a
height eight feet above grade.
   (C)   The following measurements shall establish clear vision areas:
      (1)   In a residential zone, the minimum distance shall be 30 feet; and
      (2)   In all other zones where yards are required, the minimum distance
shall be 15 feet except that when the angle of intersection is less than 30
degrees, the distance shall be 25 feet.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.056 MANAGER/OWNER/CARETAKER RESIDENCE.
   In the M-C and L-I Zones, a residence secondary to the main use of the
property is allowed for the sole purpose of providing living quarters for the
owner, operator, or caretaker of a new or ongoing commercial or industrial
enterprise, provided that:
   (A)   The living space shall be located in the same building as the
principal use of the property;
   (B)   Non-owner/manager inhabitation of the living space is prohibited; and
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review each approval granted under the
provisions of this section annually unless determined otherwise by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.057 STREET VENDOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell any items, including but not limited to food,
beverages, flowers, balloons, or other items, or offer them for sale, from any
street, sidewalk, public right-of-way, or public property within the city
limits; provided however that items permitted to be sold from a “mobile vending
stand” may be sold from public property or public right-of-way which has been
closed by motion or resolution of the City Council if the mobile vending stand
is doing business in conjunction with a festival/community event.
   (B)   A “festival or community event” is a temporary use of land for the
purpose of providing general community amusement, recognition of historical
events or traditions, or celebration of community-wide local products, which
are organized by non-profit organizations and the proceeds of the festival or
event are used to promote the purposes of the non-profit organization or
donated to other non-profit organizations.
(Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 222, passed 8-7-1995) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058 OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time a new structure is erected or the square footage is increased,
or the use of the structure is changed, off-street parking spaces, loading
areas, and access thereto shall be provided as set forth in this section.
   (A)   Requirements for types of buildings and uses not specifically listed
herein shall be determined by the Planning Commission, based upon the
requirements of comparable uses listed.
   (B)   In the event several uses occupy a single structure or parcel of land,
the total requirements shall be the sum of the several uses computed
separately.
   (C)   Owners of two or more uses, structures, or parcels of land may agree
to jointly utilize the same parking and loading spaces when the hours of
operation do not overlap, provided that satisfactory legal evidence is
presented to the Planning Commission in the form of deeds, leases, or contracts
to establish the joint use and hours of operation.
   (D)   Off-street parking spaces for dwellings, hotels, motels, resorts, and
time-shares shall be located on the same lot or on a lot immediately adjacent
to the lot served by such parking.
   (E)   Required parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable
passenger automobiles of residents, customers, patrons, and employees only, and
shall not be used for storage of vehicles or materials or for the parking of
trucks used in conducting the business or use.
   (F)   Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall have durable
and dustless surfaces improved adequately for all-weather use, and shall be
adequately maintained. Drainage shall conform to the city’s storm water master
plan and a drainage plan shall be approved the city field superintendent.
   (G)   Except for parking to serve dwelling uses, parking and loading areas
adjacent to or within residential zones, or adjacent to Highway 101, or
residential uses shall be designed to minimize visual impacts by use of
landscaping or by a fence screened by landscaping.
   (H)   Parking areas used for public or private parking lots under the
conditional use in an R-4 Zone must have garbage containers available for
garbage which may be generated by users of the parking lot. Such garbage
containers must be emptied on a regular basis and not less than weekly. Parking
lots shall be posted with the following sign: “no camping or overnight use” and
shall have their hours posted. Parking lot hours shall not extend beyond 10:00
p.m. or open earlier than 4:00 a.m. If the property fails to enforce the
parking prohibitions, the Planning Commission may review and consider whether
or not to revoke the conditional use permit.
   (I)   Parking spaces along the outer boundaries of a lot shall contain a
curb or bumper rail at least four inches high and set back four feet from the
front of the space.
   (J)   Artificial lighting may be used in parking areas provided it is of low
intensity, is pointed generally downward, and is shielded if necessary so as to
not create light or glare off-site.
   (K)   Except with respect to approved driveways, required off-street parking
areas shall not be provided in the required front or street side yard areas in
a residential zone.
   (L)   Groups of more than four parking spaces shall be served by a driveway
so that no backing movements or other maneuvering within a street, other than
an alley, will be required.
   (M)   A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of passenger vehicles
for the purpose of loading and unloading children shall be located on the site
of any school having a capacity greater than 25 students.
   (N)   Buildings or structures which receive and distribute material or
merchandise by truck shall provide and maintain off-street loading berths of
sufficient numbers and size to handle the needs of the particular use. Off-
street parking areas used to fulfill the requirements of this section may be
used for loading and unloading operations during periods of the day when not
required to take care of parking needs.
   (O)   All spaces shall be permanently and clearly marked. Markings which
guide safe and efficient traffic flow shall also be permanently and clearly
marked. All markings shall be replaced regularly to remain visible.
   (P)   All improvements, including surfacing, storm water management,
striping, and landscaping shall be fully maintained for the life of the parking
facility. Failure to maintain such improvements shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (Q)   All parking lots shall be designed with spaces for handicapped drivers
as provided for in the Building Code.
   (R)   The clear vision requirements set forth in §
152.055 of this subchapter shall apply to all parking lots at the intersection
of two streets or a street and an alley.
   (S)   For C-1 Retail Commercial Zoned properties, off-street parking
requirements shall be located on the same lot or within 500 feet (as measured
by a direct line from the nearest property line to the nearest property line of
the parking lot).
      (1)   On-street parking spaces that front the lot and are adjacent (on
the same side of the street) may be counted in the required parking. Over one-
half of the parking space shall be directly within the street frontage of the
lot in order to be counted in the required parking.
      (2)   When the square footage of a business or structure is increased, or
the use is changed, only the spaces associated with the increased square
footage or area of change must be added.
      (3)   No person who works or resides in properties fronting Highway 101
shall park a vehicle on Highway 101 while in his or her place of employment, or
in his or her residence between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any day. Single-
family dwellings are exempt.
      (4)   Parking on Highway 101 is limited to four hours between 6:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m.
      (5)   All parking shall be general purpose parking/public parking with
the exception of residential uses which may have designated off-street parking
spaces. If required parking is off-site but within 500 feet, the applicant must
provide written documentation from the property owner authorizing the parking.
If a variance to parking requirements is pursued, the applicant shall
demonstrate that off-site parking is not available within 500 feet.
   (T)   Off-street parking space requirements:
Animal hospital or kennel               1 space per 500 square feet
Any single- or multi-family residential
use, including condominium or time      2 spaces per unit
share
Church, auditorium, meeting place,      1 space for each 50 square feet of
theater, gymnasium, mortuary, or        floor area used for assembly
similar place of assembly
Dance hall, skating rink, pool hall,    1 space for each 100 square feet of
aquarium, bowling alley, or similar     floor area
commercial amusement enterprise
Day care, nursery school, kindergarten, 2 spaces per classroom or instructional
elementary and middle schools, and      area, plus requirements for offices,
similar uses                            places of assembly, and the like
Financial institution, laboratory, or   1 space for each 300 square feet of
office                                  floor area
Golf courses                            5 spaces per hole, plus the 75% the
                                        ancillary parking requirements
                                        8 spaces per classroom or instructional
High schools                            area, plus requirements for offices,
                                        places of assembly, and the like
Hospital                                3 spaces for each 2 beds
Laundromat                              1 space per three machines
Library or similar facility             1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        floor area
Manufacturing, fabrication, assembly,   1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
processing, cabinetry, or similar use   floor area
Marina or other moorage facility        1 space per boat mooring space
Medical or dental clinic                1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
Miniature golf                          1.5 spaces per hole
Nursing home, residential facility,     1 space for each 3 beds
residential home, or retirement home
Personal or business service            1 space per 250 square feet
Public or private swimming pool         1 space per 100 square feet
Recreational vehicle park               3 spaces for each two RV spaces
                                        1 space for each 100 square feet of
                                        serving area (total floor area where
Restaurants and bars                    public is allowed, excluding restrooms
                                        and other specified uses, such as
                                        designated retail space)
Retail store not handling bulky         1 space for each 350 square feet of
merchandise                             floor area
Service or repair shop; retail store
handling bulky merchandise, such as
automobiles, furniture, boats, marine   1 space for each 600 square feet of
equipment, and the like; automobile     sales, storage, or repair area
service station, feed and seed; heavy
equipment; lumber or building supplies;
or similar uses
Tourist accommodation                   1 space for each guest accommodation
Warehouse, storage, and wholesale       1 space for each 2000 square feet of
business                                area
 
   (U)   The required size of parking spaces, aisles, driveways, and similar
design features are set forth in Diagram A. Required landscaping areas are not
shown.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 124, passed 7-1-1985; Ord. 130, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 145, passed 1-3-
1989; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 234, passed
12-16-1996; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 279, passed - -2007)
§ 152.059 DISTANCE FROM PROPERTY LINE.
   In areas where a side or rear yard is not required and a structure is not to
be erected at the property line, it shall be set back at least three feet from
the property line.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.060 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   Exterior lighting for uses in commercial and industrial zones shall be
located in such a manner so as not to face or shine directly onto a lot in a
residential zone, street, or highway.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.061 GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING ACCESSORY USES, FENCES, RETAINING WALLS,
HEDGES, AND DECKS.
   An accessory use shall comply with all requirements for a principal use,
except as this chapter specifically allows to the contrary, and shall comply
with the following limitations:
   (A)   An accessory structure not used for human habitation and separated
from the main building may be located in the required rear and side yard,
except in the required street side yard of a corner lot, provided it is not
closer to a property line than the minimum setback required for the zone;
   (B)   One single-wide manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle may be
located as a temporary accessory use to a legally established dwelling under
medical hardship provisions subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The medical hardship be established in writing by a medical doctor;
      (2)   The placement of the unit comply with all residential setback
requirements;
      (3)   A sight-obscuring fence or ornamental hedge may be required to
screen the accessory use from other uses off the property;
      (4)   All appropriate permits, such as placement permits and those
required by the city or special districts for water and sewer service be
obtained prior to moving the unit on the property;
      (5)   The mobile home or travel trailer be disconnected from all services
and removed as appropriate when the hardship no longer exists; and
      (6)   The use be reviewed annually to insure compliance with the above.
   (C)   (1)   In a residential area, fences, hedges, and walls extending above
the finished grade of an approved dwelling may be located within required
yards, but shall not exceed three and one-half feet in height in any required
front yard which abuts a street other than an alley or any street side yard, or
as otherwise provided for in this chapter.
      (2)   Fences constructed on vacant lots or parcels may be located
anywhere within a parcel’s boundary lines but shall not exceed a height of six
feet and shall not interfere with clear vision areas. When dwelling
construction begins, changes to these fences shall be required, if necessary,
to comply with division (C)(1) above.
   (D)   Unenclosed decks may be located within required yards except for clear
vision areas, but shall encroach no further than one-third of the required
setback distance;
   (E)   This provision is to protect the city and adjacent property owners
from undesirable, potentially hazardous, and unnecessary development through
the use of retaining walls.
      (1)   No retaining wall shall be constructed for the purpose of back
filling to artificially heighten a lot’s ground elevation to improve views from
the subject property.
      (2)   No retaining wall shall be constructed to elevate the grade of a
lot unless necessary to establish a use or structure permitted in the
underlying zone.
      (3)   Proposed retaining walls over eight feet in height shall be
reviewed by the Planning Commission at a public hearing, following the
conditional use procedure. Approval of any retaining wall in excess of eight
feet in height shall be based on the following findings:
         (a)   The retaining wall is reasonably necessary for construction of a
structure or to establish a use permitted in the underlying zone;
         (b)   The retaining wall will not be materially detrimental to
adjacent or nearby property, or to public safety or welfare;
         (c)   The retaining wall does not preclude future access to adjacent
undeveloped property;
         (d)   If the retaining wall is a component of a building’s foundation,
it will comply with setback requirements from side and rear property lines; and
         (e)   The retaining wall does not conflict with any other provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.062 APPROVAL OF CITY INSPECTOR.
   No building shall be erected, altered, enlarged, or rebuilt or moved unless
it has city-approved domestic water supply and sewage disposal.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.063 REVIEW OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   With the exception of single-family detached dwellings, all
development proposals involving structures shall be submitted to the Fire
Department for review, comment, and recommendation.
   (B)   If no response is received within ten days from the Fire Department,
the city may proceed as it deems appropriate.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.064 BUILDING PERMIT APPROVALS.
   No building or structure shall be erected, enlarged, altered, rebuilt,
remodeled, or moved unless in conformance with the requirements of all state
and local ordinances applicable to the structure and the land upon which it is
proposed.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.065 DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.
   In order to protect the quality of the city which makes it a desirable place
in which to live, the Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council
may adopt as ordinances such development guidelines and accompanying maps as
may be necessary for the conservation and development of natural resources; the
protection of areas having historical or aesthetic importance; the safe and
desirable use of geologically hazardous areas; and utilization and development
of any other air, land, or water uses which may have significant impact on the
quality of the city. Such development guideline ordinances will be made as
addendums to this chapter. Areas to which such ordinances apply will be so
designated on the zoning maps of the city.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.066 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDOMINIUMS AND TIME SHARE PROJECTS.
   Each condominium and time share project shall comply with the following
additional standards and requirements.
   (A)   An association of unit owners shall be organized to serve as a means
through which the unit owners shall administer, manage, and operate the
condominium, as required by the applicable state statute.
   (B)   Each time share project shall establish an owners’ association or
designate another form of managing entity, as required by the applicable state
statute.
   (C)   The owners’ association for condominiums, or the owners’ association
or managing entity for time share projects, shall maintain on record with the
City Recorder the name and address of the representative or agent of the
owners’ association or a natural person as managing entity. That designated
person shall receive all notices or orders by the city to the owners’
association or managing entity, and shall also thereby be as the agent of the
owners’ association or managing entity for purposes of service of process.
   (D)   The person designated by the owners’ association or managing entity,
as provided above, shall file, from time to time, any required reports or
records with the city as may be required, including but not limited to §§
34.20 through
34.37, the transient room tax ordinance.
(Ord. 130, passed 4-6-1987; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.067 TEMPORARY PLACEMENT OF A MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
   A manufactured dwelling may be temporarily placed upon an individual lot
upon compliance with the following conditions:
   (A)   The lot owner shall file an application with the city, requesting a
permit to temporarily place a manufactured dwelling upon the lot. The applicant
shall certify that the applicant is diligently undertaking efforts to place the
manufactured dwelling permanently upon a lot within the city, that the lot upon
which the manufactured dwelling will be placed both temporarily and permanently
are properly zoned for placement of a manufactured dwelling, that the applicant
is the owner or vendee purchaser under contract of the manufactured dwelling,
and that if the temporary placement permit is granted, the owner shall comply
with the conditions of this section and with such additional conditions as may
be imposed by the Planning Commission upon issuance of the temporary placement
permit;
   (B)   The temporary placement of a manufactured dwelling is permitted only
in those zones which permit placement of manufactured dwellings; a single-wide
manufactured dwelling may be temporarily placed only in an R-3 Zone;
   (C)   The temporary placement permit shall be valid for a period of 60 days
from the date of issuance of the temporary placement permit. If the
manufactured dwelling is not permanently sited upon a lot within the city prior
to expiration of the 60-day period of the temporary placement permit, the owner
may apply to the Planning Commission for an additional 60 days for temporary
placement of the manufactured dwelling;
   (D)   No utilities other than electrical shall be connected to the
manufactured dwelling nor shall any person occupy the manufactured dwelling;
   (E)   The applicant shall comply with other requirements of this chapter,
including but not limited to setback requirements, floodplain development, and
geologic setbacks and requirements;
   (F)   Notwithstanding §§
152.205 through
152.208 of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall not be required to hold
a public hearing prior to issuance of the original temporary placement permit
if the application complies with all provision of this section. In the event
the applicant applies for an extension, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing pursuant to §
152.206 of this chapter; and
   (G)   The applicant shall pay the applicable action fee as provided in §
152.205 of this chapter and by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 163, passed 9-16-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068 DESIGN FEATURES FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   All single-family dwellings located within a residential zone (except
for manufactured homes located within a manufactured home subdivision or a
“mobile home park”) shall utilize at least two of the following design
features:
      (1)   Dormers;
      (2)   Recessed entries;
      (3)   Cupolas;
      (4)   Bay or bow windows;
      (5)   Window shutters;
      (6)   Off-sets on building face or roof (minimum 12 inches);
      (7)   Gables;
      (8)   Covered porch entry or unenclosed deck;
      (9)   Pillars or posts;
      (10)   Tile, shake, or elongated (not corrugated) metal roofing; or
      (11)   Horizontal lap siding or snakes.
   (B)   Individual lots shall be residentially landscaped and maintained
similar to surrounding neighborhood development. Use of native vegetation shall
be encouraged wherever possible.
   (C)   A driveway having a durable and dustless surface shall be provided.
   (D)   Single-family dwellings and other improvements shall be developed in
compliance with applicable provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 194, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 152.069 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY OF DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to protect the character of the city’s
residential neighborhoods by prohibiting transient occupancy of dwelling units
therein and by implementing the Comprehensive Plan policies relating to housing
and transient occupancy. Use of dwellings for transient occupancy purposes has
unmitigatable adverse impacts on surrounding residential uses and is therefore
prohibited, except as provided for in these zoning regulations. The city finds
that transient occupancy of dwelling units has been permitted in the past and
that the lawful use of property may continue subject to certain standards
contained in these zoning regulations. These regulations include, for transient
use of dwellings located within a residential zone, an amortization period of
four years and the provision for individualized determinations that lawful
investments specifically committed to transient occupancy have been made.
   (B)   Sections
152.150 through
152.158 (non-conforming uses) shall not apply to uses and structures subject to
this section.
   (C)   No person shall occupy, use, operate, or manage, nor offer or
negotiate to use, lease, or rent a dwelling unit in any residential zone for
transient occupancy, except a dwelling lawfully used for transient occupancy
purposes on the effective date of this section which meets the requirements of
§
152.070 of this subchapter.
   (D)   In the commercial or industrial zones, the rental of a dwelling, or
portion thereof, for transient occupancy shall be considered a tourist
accommodation and subject to the requirements for tourist accommodations,
including compliance with the requirements of §
152.070 of this subchapter.
   (E)   The use of dwellings or residences within any residential zone for
transient occupancy purposes shall be deemed terminated upon the effective date
of this section unless the provisions of §
152.070 of this subchapter are met. Persons who fail to register and
substantiate the non-conforming use of their property, within the period
described, shall be precluded from further use of their dwellings for transient
occupancy under the provisions of these zoning regulations.
(Ord. 234, passed 12-16-1996)
§ 152.070 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY BUSINESS REGISTRATION/AMORTIZATION OF SHORT-TERM
RENTALS OF DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Any person who rented a dwelling unit located within any residential
zone to transients between December 1, 1995 and the effective date of this
section, or who otherwise claims a non-conforming transient occupancy use,
shall establish the non-conforming transient occupancy use status by
substantiating their actual use of the property for transient occupancy
purposes. Evidence, of a type which provides written documentation and is more
than a statement of use, shall be provided to the city within 60 days of the
effective date of section, together with the transient occupancy business
registration required in division (B) below.
   (B)   No person shall operate, manage, or maintain a tourist accommodation
or be the agent for the owner or operator for the purpose of assisting in the
use or maintenance of a tourist accommodation or dwelling in the transient
occupancy business or, during the amortization period of use of dwellings for
transient occupancy, dwellings for transient occupancy without registering as a
transient occupancy business with the City Recorder. No fee shall be required
to register as a transient occupancy business.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall require such information as convenient or
necessary for the registration of transient occupancy businesses, including but
not limited to the name of the owner, the name of the operator, the address of
the structure or building, and that either the business holds a business
license to engage in the transient occupancy business or evidence that the
structure or building has been used for transient occupancy business during the
period from December 1,1995 to the effective date of this section or the real
property is being held with the expectation of engaging in the transient
occupancy business by August 1, 1997. A transient occupancy business license
review committee, establishing by resolution or motion of the City Council,
shall review the registration application and determine whether the application
for registration substantiates transient occupancy use for the required period.
Written notice of the decision shall be mailed to the registration applicant.
Decisions of the committee may be appealed to the City Council within 20
calendar days of the date of mailing of the written decision of the committee.
   (D)   Persons shall be permitted 60 days from the date of adoption of this
section amendment to register as required above. Within 15 days following the
adoption of this section, the City Recorder shall give notice of the adoption
of this section and the requirement to register as a transient occupancy
business by the following:
      (1)   Mailing a copy of this section and a form for registration as a
transient occupancy business to all persons or businesses who have filed a
transient room tax report within the past eight months;
      (2)   Posting a notice, in the form prescribed below, at the public
bulletin board at the post office and at the city hall;
      (3)   Including a notice, in the form prescribed below, with the next
water/sewer billing; and
      (4)   Publishing notice of adoption of this section in the News Times and
News Guard newspapers, legal notice section, with the following text in the
notice:
   Notice to all persons who rent or intend to rent to transients, tourists, or
short-term (less than 30 days) renters or lodgers. The city has adopted
Ordinance 234, which restricts or prohibits the rental or occupancy of lodging
facilities or dwellings to short-term renters, transients, or lodgers.
Registration as a transient occupancy business is required by February 14,
1997. A copy of the ordinance and registration form may be obtained: in person
at the City Hall, 570 SE Shell Ave., Depoe Bay, OR 97341, during regular
business hours; by mailing a request for the “transient occupancy business
restrictions and registration” to the City Recorder, PO Box 8, Depoe Bay, OR
97341; or by telephone (541-765-2361), requesting the “transient occupancy
business restrictions and registration” be mailed to you. Failure to register
shall result in the cessation of the transient occupancy business. There is no
fee for registering.
   (E)   The transient occupancy business shall be in compliance with the city
business license and the transient room tax ordinances, and shall not be
delinquent with each of the requirements of these ordinances.
   (F)   The non-conforming use of dwellings for transient occupancy shall be
amortized within a four-year period from the effective date of this section. At
the conclusion of the amortization period, all transient occupancy of dwelling
units shall be prohibited, whether or not such use existed prior to the
adoption of this section unless hardship relief has been granted pursuant to
(G) below.
   (G)   A hardship provision is established for property owners who can
substantiate that an investment made exclusively in the non-conforming use of a
dwelling for transient occupancy cannot be adequately amortized within the
period of time specified in division (F) above. The purpose of this hardship
provision is to permit those who have made substantial investments in transient
occupancy improvements to dwellings structures to recover their investment, but
only in those cases in which the improvements have committed the structure to
transient occupancy, as opposed to long-term residential use. If the
improvement may be utilized both for transient occupancy and long-term
residential use, this provision shall not apply. An application for hardship
relief under the provisions of this section shall also provide information on
the specific investments that were made with respect to the non-conforming,
short-term rental use of the property. Anyone seeking hardship relief shall
file an application for such relief with the City Recorder not later than 60
days from the effective date of this section. The City Council shall determine,
based on accepted accounting practices, whether there is a basis for hardship
relief and the establishment of a longer amortization period. The hearing upon
the hardship petition shall be in accordance with the procedure set forth in §
152.206(B) of this chapter. If the City Council determines that a longer
amortization period is warranted, it shall establish a period of time that
permits the reasonable amortization, based on accepted accounting practices, of
the investment of the property owner. At the conclusion of that specific
amortization period, the transient occupancy of the dwelling shall be
terminated. If the City Council determines that a longer amortization period is
not warranted by nature of the investment, the amortization period specified in
division (F) above shall be met. Persons who fail to file an application within
the time period established in this section shall be precluded from applying
for hardship relief under the provisions of these zoning regulations.
(Ord. 234, passed 12-16-1996) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.071 SITING STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   In addition to compliance with provisions set forth under §
152.068 of this subchapter, a manufactured home shall be permitted on
individual lots in all residential and commercial zones permitting single-
family dwellings, subject to the following standards:
   (A)   The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional and enclose an area of
not less than 1,000 square feet; except, in the R-3 Zone, a single-wide or
multi-sectional home enclosing a floor area of not less than 700 square feet
shall be permitted. A manufactured home shall not be considered multi-sectional
(double-wide or larger) by virtue of having a tip-out section;
   (B)   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and back-filled
foundation, enclosed at the perimeter with skirting of concrete, concrete
block, or masonry. Where the building site has a sloped grade, no more than 12
inches of the enclosing material shall be exposed on the uphill side of the
home, if the manufactured home is placed on a basement or a garage, the 12-inch
limitation will not apply;
   (C)   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof, except that no
standard shall require a slope grater than a nominal three feet in height for
each 12 feet in width;
   (D)   The manufactured home shall not have corrugated metal but shall have
exterior siding and roofing which in color, material, and appearance is similar
to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on residential
dwellings within the community or which is comparable to the predominant
materials used on surrounding dwellings as determined by the City Planner or
Planning Commission;
   (E)   The manufactured home shall be certified by the manufacturer to have
an exterior thermal envelope meeting performance standards which reduce heat
loss levels to the performance standards required of single-family dwellings
constructed under the State Building Code as defined in the applicable state
statute;
   (F)   The manufactured dwelling shall have a driveway, which driveway shall
have a durable and dustless surface; and
   (G)   Manufactured dwellings shall not be sited adjacent to any structure
listed on the register of historic landmarks and districts.
(Ord. 194, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.072 PROTECTION OF STREAMS, PONDS, WETLANDS, AND RIPARIAN AREAS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide procedures
necessary to secure the desirable attributes of the city from depletion by
recognizing the value of streams, ponds, wetlands, and riparian vegetation for
fish and wildlife habitat, maintenance of water quality and quantity,
alleviation of flooding hazards, storm water control, recreation and
aesthetics, and to provide for open space. Protection of the natural
drainageways as an integral part of the city environment in accordance with the
Local Wetlands and Riparian Inventory (2004) (LWI) is also important in order
to manage stormwater drainage, minimize maintenance costs, and protect
properties adjacent to drainageways.
   (B)   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
streams, significant wetlands, ponds, and riparian areas identified in the
Comprehensive Plan’s LWI. The provisions of this section shall also apply to
existing streams, significant wetlands, and riparian areas that are not yet
identified in the LWI. The provisions of this section are to be applied in
conjunction with the provisions of the underlying zone and are also subject to
the applicable provisions of §§
152.039,
152.040,
152.076,
152.130 through
152.136,
152.150 through
152.158,
152.170 through
152.173,
152.185 through
152.188,
152.200 through
152.210, and
152.225 through
152.235. Where the provisions of this section and the underlying zone conflict,
the more restrictive regulations shall apply. Forestry activities subject to
the riparian regulations of the Oregon Forest Practices Act, being O.R.S.
527.610 through 527.810, are exempt from regulation under this section.
Forestry activities not subject to the riparian regulations of the Oregon
Forest Practices Act are subject to regulation under this section.
   (C)   Procedure for development applications. Applicants requesting approval
for any development permit in an area which contains a designated resource
identified in division (D) below shall submit, along with any application, a
detailed site plan and written statement demonstrating how the proposed
activities will conform to each of the applicable standards of this section.
The Planning Commission shall review the application in a public hearing and
determine if all of the applicable criteria are met.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRAINAGEWAYS. The streams, channels, springs, lakes, ponds, reservoirs,
ponding areas, and wetlands indicated in the LWI and the stormwater master plan
maps of existing facilities.
      FISH HABITAT. The areas upon which fish depend in order to meet their
requirements for spawning, rearing, food supply, and migration.
      POND. A small body of intermittent or perennial standing water that is a
persistent feature of the landscape.
      RIPARIAN AREA. The area adjacent to a river, lake, or stream, consisting
of the area of transition from an aquatic ecosystem to a terrestrial ecosystem.
      RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. Includes the water areas, fish habitat, adjacent
riparian areas, and wetlands within the riparian area boundary.
      RIPARIAN CORRIDOR BOUNDARY.
         (a)   An imaginary line that lies 50 feet inland (or upland), measured
on the horizontal, from the top of the bank of an inland stream, or where no
bank is discernible, that lies 50 feet inland from the outer edge of non-
aquatic vegetation.
         (b)   Where a wetland or pond is contiguous to a stream, the riparian
area shall be measured 50 feet inland (or upland) from the upland edge of the
wetland or pond. Where a wetland or pond is not contiguous to a stream, the
riparian area shall be measured 25 feet inland (or upland) from the upland edge
of the wetland or pond.
      STREAM. A channel, such as a river or creek, that carries flowing surface
water, including perennial streams and intermittent streams with defined
channels, and excluding human-made irrigation and drainage channels.
      WATER AREA. The area between the banks of a lake, pond, river, or
perennial or fish-bearing intermittent stream, excluding human-made farm ponds.
      WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions.
   (E)   Riparian corridor protection standards.
      (1)   The actual location of streams, wetlands, ponds, and riparian
areas, shall be delineated in the field by a person qualified to do such a
delineation, following procedures accepted by the state. A report and map shall
be submitted which documents the boundaries of the resource and its buffer.
      (2)   The outer boundaries of the riparian corridor shall be clearly
marked in the field, and such markings shall remain visible for inspection
until all development on the site is complete.
      (3)   No filling, grading, excavating, or draining is permitted in a
wetland area unless such is performed for restoration purposes. Valid permits
from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and from the Oregon Department of State
Lands, or written proof of exemption from these permit programs must be
obtained and presented to the city prior to any such work.
      (4)   The flow from springs, drainages, streams, and other features
providing the water necessary to maintain wetlands hydrology, shall not be
diminished or substantially increased.
      (5)   Within the riparian corridor boundary, no grading shall occur, no
impermeable surfaces or structures shall be placed, and no vegetation shall be
removed or destroyed, except that the following are allowed, provided they are
designed and constructed to minimize intrusion into the riparian area:
         (a)   Removal of riparian vegetation necessary for a use that requires
direct access to the water;
         (b)   Placement of utilities, drainage facilities, and irrigation
pumps;
         (c)   Replacement or enlargement of existing structures with
structures in the same location that do not disturb additional riparian surface
area;
         (d)   The placement of walking paths and road crossings;
         (e)   Removal of non-native noxious vegetation, such as scotch broom,
blackberries, and ivy, and replacement with native plant species;
         (f)   Fish and habitat restoration activities approved by Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife; and
         (g)   Removal of vegetation necessary for the development of water
related and water dependent uses.
      (6)   Before any development activity occurs within a riparian corridor,
there must be a review and report prepared by a licensed, certified arborist.
The arborist’s report must be submitted to the city before any development
activity occurs. The responsibility for this review lies with the applicant.
      (7)   Valid permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and from the
Oregon Division of State Lands, or written proof of exemption from these permit
programs, must be obtained and presented to the city before commencement of any
of the activities associated with allowed uses which will impact the streams,
ponds, wetlands, and riparian areas.
      (8)   Development activities shall not change the natural drainage or
substantially increase the water flow.
      (9)   Development activities shall not create erosion into the stream,
wetland, pond, or riparian area.
   (F)   Drainageway protection standards.
      (1)   To prevent new development from significantly increasing the amount
or flow rate of surface water run-off destined for the drainageway, any new
development or redevelopment proposed on land on or adjoining a drainageway
shall:
         (a)   Avoid filling in, disturbing, or changing the location of the
natural drainageway;
         (b)   Avoid placing impervious surfaces within 15 feet of the
drainageway;
         (c)   Not “hardline” roof and perimeter drains into the drainageway,
but provide for infiltration or run-off on site before allowing it to enter the
natural drainageway; and
         (d)   For subdivisions, provide for engineered stormwater plans that
provide for on-site storm water detention and treatment.
      (2)   This section is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
section and any other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
   (G)   Hardship variances.
      (1)   Applicability. This section applies to lots existing prior to
January 1, 1982 in the Coastal Shorelands Overlay Zone or along North and South
Depoe Bay Creeks, or prior to January 1, 2001 in other areas of the city.
      (2)   Where a minimum building footprint of less than 800 square feet
would result from application of the rules of this section, reduction or
removal of the restrictions under this section can be granted to allow the
building of a structure within such a building footprint through the variance
procedure. Applicants for variance from this section should demonstrate, in
addition to the criteria found in the variance ordinance (§§
152.170 through
152.173 of this chapter), that intrusion into the required riparian corridor,
wetland, or drainageway protection areas has been minimized by maximizing
setback variances on property line boundaries away from these resources.
Applicants shall consult with a fish biologist regarding impacts to the
riparian corridor and stream, and provide that documentation to the city, when
requesting intrusion into the required riparian corridor associated with North
Depoe Bay Creek or South Depoe Bay Creek.
   (H)   Map error. If the resource is not located on a subject property,
although the inventory map indicates it to be, the applicant for a building
permit shall follow the following procedure:
      (1)   The boundary of the property with proximity to the resource area
shall be marked between surveyed property markers with a visible string or
tape;
      (2)   The applicant shall contact the City Planner and request a site
visit;
      (3)   The City Planner shall inspect the property and, if the resource is
not on the subject property, issue the applicant a note stating the resource is
not on the subject property and is exempt from the provisions of this section;
and
      (4)   When the extent of the resource area cannot be determined by the
city, the applicant shall seek prompt assistance from a natural resource agency
in making that determination, or provide a written report from a properly-
qualified specialist describing the boundaries of the resource area in
relationship to the property boundaries.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 278, passed 3-21-2007) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.073 PROTECTION OF PUBLICLY-OWNED LANDS.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to all publicly-owned lands in
the city.
   (B)   Standards. Publicly- owned lands, including street rights-of-way,
shall be evaluated before their disposition as to their possible uses as open
space or park land or pedestrian and bike pathways, and wherever possible, be
retained for those uses.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.074 PROTECTION OF COASTAL HEADLANDS; AREAS OF EXCEPTIONAL AESTHETIC
RESOURCES.
   (A)   Application. This section’s standards shall apply to lands identified
as coastal headlands and exceptional aesthetic resources found in the
Comprehensive Plan inventory section entitled “open spaces, scenic and historic
areas, and natural resources”, item f.
   (B)   Standards. Development in areas of exceptional aesthetic resources or
coastal headlands shall substantially maintain the existing visual character of
the areas. The visual character of the area is deemed to be substantially
maintained if the following standards are met.
      (1)   For coastal headlands, coastal scenic areas, and the harbor area.
         (a) The coastal headlands remain in their natural state.
         (b)   The shorelands, cliffs, and immediate environs of the coastal
scenic areas comply with the requirements of §§
152.234 and
152.235 of this chapter, except that the “area of visual concern” for Whale
Cove, Pirate’s Cove, and the designated faces of north and south points shall
extend 40 feet rather than 25 feet landward from the top of the coastal bluff.
         (c)   In these same areas, the outer coverings of structures that will
be visible from within the aesthetic resource area, including the roofing
materials, are of natural wood materials or designed to look like natural wood
materials or are painted or stained in subdued colors.
         (d)   Around the city harbor and adjacent park, developments are
compatible with the existing character of the area and with the atmosphere of
the harbor for boats, and are for water dependent uses.
         (e)   Lights from any development are shielded and directed downward
so as not to illuminate or cause glare outside of their local area. External
lighting on structures, streets, signage, or for other uses are restricted to
low wattage ground lights less than 12 feet tall.
         (f)   All communication and utility lines and structures are either
underground or not visible over or around a vegetative buffer.
         (g)   Where a permitted use of a lot existing prior to the
establishment of this chapter would be precluded by strict adherence to these
requirements, the applicant can ask for an exception to these standards if the
applicant meets the following standards:
            1.   The request is the minimum necessary;
            2.   Disruption of the visual character of the area has been
minimized; and
            3.   That options such as clustering of improvements, maximizing
variance setbacks on the sides of the development away from the aesthetic
resource, or other design methods to minimize impact have been exercised or are
not feasible.
      (2)   For scenic view corridors.
         (a)   For the corridor along the west side of Highway 101 between
Sunset Street and the bridge, the property owner, whether public or private,
maintains vegetation pruned to not obstruct the view.
         (b)   Developments are to be designed to intrude into the view
corridor the minimum necessary and at least 15 feet per 100 feet of frontage
remains with an unobstructed view.
      (3)   For forested corridors.
         (a)   Trees six inches in diameter or greater at four feet above
ground shall be retained within 40 feet either side of the Highway 101 right-
of-way from South Point Street south to the city limits. This area may be
considered part of the required common space provided in a planned development
or land division.
         (b)   Trees within ten feet of a building may be removed providing the
building meets all setback provisions. Trees may also be removed where ingress
or egress to a development can only be achieved by access across the corridor.
The accessway must be the minimum width allowable and designed to minimize the
amount of intrusion along the corridor (such as, by alignment perpendicular to
the highway).
         (c)   Within forested corridors, trees may be removed if determined to
be unsafe by a registered, certified arborist. If trees are removed due to
unsafe conditions, those areas shall be immediately replanted with trees that
will reestablish the forested corridor.
      (4)   For forested hillsides.
         (a)   In any plan for a subdivision greater than three acres, specific
measures are outlined to assure that at least 20% of the area with trees six
inches or greater at four feet above ground shall be protected. These areas
shall be mapped in the plan, and may be considered part of the required common
space provided in a planned development.
         (b)   Where a permitted use of a lot existing prior to the
establishment of this chapter would be precluded by strict adherence to these
requirements, the development is the minimum necessary and the forested
resource is maintained to the maximum extent possible.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.075 PROTECTION OF HISTORIC AND ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES.
   (A)   Application. Sites subject to this section are identified in the
Comprehensive Plan inventory “open spaces, scenic and historic areas, natural
resources”, § i.
   (B)   Standards. These standards shall apply when an archeological site is
observed, located, or unearthed or there is indication that an archeological
site exists or when the city notifies the applicant it is a known site.
      (1)   Development in areas with archeological sites shall be conducted in
a manner so as to avoid site disturbance to the archeological sites and prevent
irreversible loss of archeological resources.
      (2)   Development in areas with archeological sites shall comply with the
applicable state statute.
      (3)   Development on historic sites shall not diminish the value of such
sites as historic resources as determined by the County Historical Society, the
State Advisory Committee on Historical Preservation, or other knowledgeable
persons or agencies in the identification and preservation of historically
important resources.
      (4)   Alterations to identified historic structures shall be conducted in
a manner so as to maintain the historic value of such structures.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.076 CLEARING, FILLING, EXCAVATING, AND GRADING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to assure that during pre-
development activities (such as, clearing a subdivision or a property in
preparation for sales to individual home builders) soil disturbance and
vegetation removal are kept to the minimum necessary and that soil particles
are prevented from moving off the site onto adjoining properties, streets,
storm drain systems, or into waterways, wetlands, or other natural areas.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLEARING. The removal of vegetation from a site wherein the root system
of the vegetation is disturbed. CLEARING, for the purpose of this section, does
not include gardening activities.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the
movement of wind or water.
      EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
      FILL. The deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
      GRADING. The process of changing the topography of the ground surface.
      STREAM. A channel, such as a river or creek that carries flowing surface
water, including perennial streams and intermittent streams with defined
channels, and excluding human-made irrigation and drainage channels.
      VEGETATION. Plants of all types, including grasses, ground cover,
flowers, bushes, shrubs, and trees.
   (C)   Application. This section applies to any pre-development activity
within the city that:
      (1)   Involves the clearing, grading, filling, or excavation of more than
5,000 square feet of surface area;
      (2)   Involves the felling of more than five trees measuring six inches
diameter or greater, at four feet height from the ground surface, within a five
thousand square foot area;
      (3)   Are conducted within areas of geologic hazards; or
      (4)   Are conducted in areas within 100 feet, measured on the horizontal,
of the bank of streams or the top of bank whichever distance is greater, or the
mean high tide level of the estuary or ocean.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Charing, grading, filling, or excavation of the site shall not be
permitted until approval permits have been issued.
      (2)   Clearing, grading, filling, or excavation of the site shall be the
minimum required to complete the project.
      (3)   Prior to site disturbance, markings identifying the limits of
clearing, grading, filling, or excavation, and/or safety fencing shall be
placed on the site. Such markings or fencing shall remain in place until the
clearing, filling, excavating, or grading is completed.
      (4)   Pre-development in forested areas (areas larger than one acre
containing trees measuring six inches diameter or greater, at four feet height
from the ground surface) shall maintain a minimum of 20% of the trees measuring
six inches diameter or greater, at four feet height from the ground surface on
the site, which can be in the required setback areas. Maintained trees shall be
preserved in tree groves where feasible.
      (5)   Erosion prevention measures shall be properly installed as per
manufacturer’s specifications or standards specified in this section to ensure
that soil does not leave the property or enter surface water. Erosion
prevention and sediment control measures shall remain in place until final
landscaping is installed and well established.
      (6)   Any soil that leaves the site is the responsibility of the property
owner and shall be promptly removed from the off-site area, unless that area is
owned by the same property owner, and placed back on the site, or properly
disposed of.
      (7)   The applicant shall specify the tax lot and location where soil and
vegetation removed from the site will be taken for disposal, and shall provide
evidence that the owner of the site is willing to accept the material.
   (E)   Procedure. Applicants requesting approval for any pre-development
activity subject to the provisions of this section shall clearly show on their
application at least the following:
      (1)   Areas where soils and vegetation will not be disturbed;
      (2)   Areas where clearing, grading, filling, or excavation will occur;
      (3)   The location of silt fencing placed along contour lines and
constructed to city specified standards;
      (4)   A gravel construction entrance constructed to city specified
standards;
      (5)   The location of natural drainageways and nearby storm drain inlets
and the method used to protect the inlet;
      (6)   The location of drains, drainage systems, or other outfalls on the
property and methods of assuring that soil particles cannot leave the site
through these outfall locations; and
      (7)   If a site lies within a designated geologically hazardous area,
contains slopes of 20% or more, or involves the clearing, grading, filling, or
excavation, of more than 15,000 square feet of soil surface, the following
additional erosion prevention and sediment control requirements shall also
apply. In such situations:
         (a)   All disturbed soils and all soil stockpiles shall be covered
between October 1 and March 15 with two-inch depth of mulch (straw, hay, or
bark dust), erosion control blankets, or have ground covering (such as, grass)
that is well-established and that provides full coverage of the ground surface;
or
         (b)   Shall have an erosion prevention and sediment control plan
prepared by a person with experience and training in this field. Such a plan
must be submitted to the city and the required measures shown on the plans.
Such plans shall describe the qualifications of the person preparing the report
and, at a minimum, specify methods to be employed, the timing of ground
disturbance, the frequency of inspection during the work period, and the
maintenance requirements for each of the control methods used.
(Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
SIGNS
§ 152.090 PURPOSE.
   The city is known for the natural beauty of its surroundings. The perceived
character of the city is an important economic asset to the residents of the
area; and, by reason of the foregoing, reasonable and proper regulation of
signs and advertising structures is conducive to the fullest enjoyment by the
people of the community of such natural and traditional advantages and is
necessary to prevent depreciation of property values in residential and
commercial areas of the city. Further, unless reasonably and properly
regulated, signs and advertising structures are a potential hazard to the
community by reason of the structural nature, illumination, and electrification
thereof.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.091 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign lawfully existing or lawfully permitted and constructed
within the time allowed by the sign permit but which is made non-conforming by
adoption or amendment of this chapter is a non-conforming sign.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs shall be removed or brought into compliance if
any of the following occurs:
      (1)   The sign or sign structure is moved, removed, replaced, or
structurally altered. Changes in removable faces or panels are not structural
alterations. Exception: when a non-conforming sign is damaged by natural events
beyond the control of the owner, such as, a wind storm, the sign may be rebuilt
to the same size and height, using the same types of original material. This
exception does not include a sign that is damaged by lack of maintenance, such
as, dry rot, rust, or similar types of damage; or
      (2)   The use of the property where the sign is located changes to a
different use. For purposes of this section, a change in use includes
situations in which services or goods offered or provided on the property are
totally changed.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.092 SCOPE.
   Every sign erected, altered, or relocated within the city shall conform to
the provisions of this subchapter. It does not regulate traffic and street
signs erected and maintained by a road authority as defined in O.R.S. 801.445,
trespass signs posted in accordance with O.R.S. 164.245 to 164.270, holiday
decorations, temporary interior window signs, or the display of the national or
state flag. United States flags, state flags, and federally recognized tribal
flags of any quantity or size may be placed anywhere. They must meet any
applicable safety standards, and shall not slow pedestrian or bicycle flow
traffic or impede visibility, and shall not interfere with vehicle traffic flow
or visibility. United States flag, state flag, and federally recognized tribal
flag displays shall not include business, company, or commodity advertising.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.093 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-FRAME SIGN (SANDWICH BOARD SIGN). A freestanding sign which is ordinarily
in the shape of an “A” or some variation thereof, which is readily moveable,
and is not permanently attached to the ground or any structure.
   AWNING. A shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a
building and composed of a covering of rigid or nonrigid materials and/or
fabric on a supporting framework that may be either permanent or retractable.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning. The entire awning shall be included in the sign area
calculation when the awning is backlit and the awning material exhibits the
characteristics of luminosity obtained by means of a source of illumination.
   BANNER or FEATHER SIGN. A ground-mounted or building-mounted banner,
pennant, flag, or similar type of sign on fabric or similar material.
   BUILDING SIGN. A wall, projecting/hanging, window, or roof sign.
   CANOPY; ATTACHED. A multi-sided overhead structure supported by attachments
to a building on one or more sides and either cantilevered from such building
or also supported by columns at additional points.
   CANOPY; FREESTANDING. A multi-sided overhead structure supported by columns,
but not enclosed by walls, which is installed as a permanent building structure
under which vehicles can be driven.
   DIGITAL SIGNS. Include signs that display text that is updated, and signs
that have discrete lights or elements to display text, a symbol, or an object.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is supported by a separate independent
structure and is not attached to or supported by any other building or
structure.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A ground-mounted sign supported from grade with a solid base
that is at least 75% of the width of the sign. A MONUMENT SIGN can also be
supported with multiple architectural-designed posts. Single posts are
prohibited.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was erected legally but which does not
comply with currently applicable sign restrictions and regulations.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign used for the purpose of displaying, advertising,
identifying, or directing attention to a business, service, activity, or place,
including products offered for sale or sold on premises other than on the
premises where such sign is displayed.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is attached to the wall, overhang, or awning
of a building and which projects more than 12 inches beyond the wall, overhang,
or awning of the building.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land that is open and accessible as of right to the
public and typically designed for travel by vehicle, on foot, or other mode of
transportation. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not have an assigned tax lot on the
County Assessor’s maps.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure,
or land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution, or business.
   SIZE. The aggregate area of all sign display surfaces located on a single
structure, but excluding posts and base that are without attached
identification, description, or illustration. Two surfaces parallel and back to
back on the same structure, such as, a projecting sign or two-sided monument
sign, shall be considered a single display surface.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign which is not permanently installed to or affixed to
any sign structure or building, and is accessory to an event, election,
government or institutional sponsored activity, lease, rental, or sale of
limited, fixed duration. A TEMPORARY SIGN does not include an A-frame sign as
identified above.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or painted on a wall of a building with a
display surface which projects no more than 12 inches from the surface of the
wall and not higher than the lowest roof edge above the building wall to which
it is attached.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign attached to the inside or outside of a window and seen
from the outside.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.094 SIGN PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, no sign shall be erected, replaced,
altered, or relocated without the business owner first obtaining a sign permit
and the property owner (if different) granting permission for a sign permit,
demonstrating that the sign is or will be in compliance with all provisions of
this chapter. A-frame signs, banners, and feather signs, as defined in §
152.093 of this subchapter, are exempt from sign permits.
   (B)   Permits are issued for specific property only. Permits may transfer
with ownership, provided the signage is not altered or moved except to bring it
into compliance with this section.
   (C)   Permits are not required for routine maintenance, nor required for
changes in the text on signs.
   (D)   Signs conforming to the current code that are damaged by acts of
nature, vandalism, or accident shall not be assessed a new sign permit fee when
repaired to the pre-damaged condition. The owner of freestanding signs shall be
required to obtain a building permit prior to construction.
   (E)   The permit application shall be forwarded to the City Planner for
review and processing. Any decision of approval or denial may be appealed to
the City Council. An appeal shall be heard in a manner as prescribed by the
City Council. Permit application review fees and appeal processing fees shall
be established, and may be revised from time to time, by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.095 RESIDENTIAL AND NCA OVERLAY ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-5 Zones: one sign shall be allowed
and shall be limited to the following sizes and restrictions:
      (1)   Only wall signs are allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-
5 Zones;
      (2)   A sign not exceeding two square feet in size accessory to a single-
family dwelling or a home occupation;
      (3)   No moving or flashing signs, lit signs, roof signs, A-frame signs,
or banner signs shall be allowed in the R-1, R-2 and R-3, R-4, and R-5 Zones;
and
      (4)   No sign shall be placed within ten feet of any government-installed
sign within a public right-of-way (stop signs, traffic-control sign, and the
like).
   (B)   In the NCA Overlay Zone, signs are allowed per §
152.032. No sign permit is required.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 C-1, L-I, AND M-P ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General sign requirements.
      (1)   No freestanding or projecting sign shall be placed within ten feet
of any government-installed sign within a public right-of-way (stop signs,
traffic-control signs, and the like).
      (2)   Signs may be illuminated internally or externally (includes neon).
      (3)   External light illuminating from a sign shall be directed away from
a residential use or zone and shall not be located so as to distract motorists.
      (4)   No sign shall be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair the
vision of a motor vehicle driver or interfere with the effectiveness of an
official traffic sign, device, or signal.
      (5)   Strobe or rotating lights shall are not permitted on private
property.
      (6)   All signs shall conform to acceptable safety requirements as
determined by the city. Analysis of safety of electrical design of aluminum
signs may be required.
      (7)   There shall be no advertising signs for businesses or activities
located outside of the city or its urban growth boundaries.
      (8)   No sign shall detract from and/or block any area of scenic value,
as inventoried in the Comprehensive Plan.
      (9)   Where it can be demonstrated that directional signs are needed for
directing or controlling vehicular access, or where such signs are required as
a condition of approval for public safety, such signs may be permitted in
addition to any other signs permitted by this section. Such signs shall be
placed at each motor vehicle entrance or exit, shall not exceed nine square
feet in size and six feet in height, and shall not restrict required sight
distances or pedestrian and vehicular flow.
      (10)   Movable planters are encouraged in front of businesses. Planters
shall not slow pedestrian, or bicycle flow traffic or impede visibility, and
they shall not interfere with vehicle traffic flow or visibility. They shall
not include business, company, or commodity advertising other than allowed in
this section.
   (B)   Sign types.
      (1)   Wall and window signs.
         (a)   A maximum 20% of a building facade is allowed to have signs.
This includes the total combined area of wall and window signs. Multiple
facades may not be aggregated for purposes of determining sign size.
         (b)   Murals are not allowed on buildings.
      (2)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   Projecting signs are allowed for non-residential uses.
         (b)   If a business has a projecting sign, then A-frame signs are
prohibited.
         (c)   Projecting signs shall be installed on the primary use building.
Multiple-tenant buildings may have one sign on each tenant’s storefront that
provides customer access.
         (d)   Projecting signs shall be located on the first story, except
that a projecting sign may be installed on the wall of the second story,
provided the sign and sign supports are installed no higher than the second
floor window opening or 24 feet above grade, whichever is lower. Projecting
signs shall not extend above the roofline or roof eave or above the parapet of
the building.
         (e)   Projecting signs shall not exceed nine square feet in area and
shall be no more than three feet wide, three feet tall, and have a maximum
thickness of 18 inches. Projecting signs shall extend no more than 42 inches
from the building or within two feet of the curb, whichever is less.
         (f)   A minimum clearance of eight feet between the bottom of the sign
and the finished grade below the sign is required. At alleys, when no curb
exists, a minimum height of 14 feet between the bottom of the sign and the
finished grade below the sign is required.
      (3)   Roof signs. Roof signs are prohibited.
      (4)   Permanent freestanding and monument signs.
         (a)   No more than one freestanding or monument sign is permitted per
street frontage per property.
         (b)   The sign shall be placed on the private property of the
business.
         (c)   The sign shall not be located on the sidewalk, pedestrian way,
public right-of-way, or in such other manner as to interfere with the orderly
flow of pedestrian traffic along the street, sidewalk, pedestrian way, or
public right-of-way.
         (d)   The sign shall not be located upon the private property in such
a manner as to interfere with the clear vision area of motor vehicles, or to
cause, in any other manner, a hazard to motor vehicle traffic.
         (e)   Single pole signs are prohibited.
         (f)   Freestanding and monument signs shall have a maximum eight-foot
height, maximum ten foot width, and maximum 50 square feet.
         (g)   Electrical service to freestanding and monument signs shall be
underground.
         (h)   Prior to freestanding or monument sign placement, construction,
or alteration, a building permit shall be obtained if freestanding or monument
signs are required by the County Building Official.
      (5)   A-frame signs.
         (a)   No more than one A-frame sign is permitted per business.
         (b)   If a business has an A-frame sign, projecting signs are
prohibited.
         (c)   A-frame signs may be placed on private property.
         (d)   A-frame signs may be placed within the public right-of-way
fronting the business. A-frame signs shall not be located within eight feet of
vehicular travel lanes. A-frame signs may not be located in bicycle lanes or
parking spaces, nor impede pedestrian access or opening of vehicle doors. A-
frame signs may be placed on a sidewalk, however a minimum four feet of lateral
clearance shall be maintained on a sidewalk. Placement of A-frame signs within
Highway 101 right-of-way are subject to agreement with the Oregon Department of
Transportation.
         (e)   A-frame signs shall be a maximum of eight square feet with
maximum dimensions of two feet wide by four feet tall.
         (f)   A-frame signs shall be secured by means of attaching an interior
weight so as not to be movable (pushed, pulled, blown, and the like).
         (g)   Any object attached to A-frame signs, such as, balloons,
banners, and the like, shall be in accordance with the above A-frame sign
standards.
         (h)   A-frame signs are only permitted during business hours and
should be removed during periods of high winds.
      (6)   Banner and feather signs.
         (a)   One banner or feather sign is allowed per ten feet of business
frontage.
         (b)   Banner and feather signs shall not exceed 20 square feet.
         (c)   Ground-mounted banner and feather signs may be placed on private
property and not be mounted in or extend into public right-of-way. Banner and
feather signs attached to a building may extend over a sidewalk within the
public right-of-way with a minimum clearance of seven and one-half feet from
the ground so as to not impede pedestrian access.
         (d)   No banner or feather sign, other than the American flag, shall
be placed in any flagpole holes along Highway 101, and no banner or feather
signs shall be placed in planters located in the public right-of-way.
         (e)   Banner and feather signs are only permitted during business
hours and should be removed during periods of high winds.
      (7)   Digital signs. A digital sign may be a wall, window, freestanding,
or monument sign. A digital sign is subject to all sign regulations. For
example, if a digital sign is a freestanding or monument sign, no more than one
freestanding or monument sign is permitted per street frontage per property.
         (a)   One digital sign is allowed per business or institution. In
addition, one digital “open” sign is allowed per business.
         (b)   Digital signs may not be externally or internally illuminated by
a flashing light or a light that varies in intensity.
         (c)   Digital signs must be equipped with a light sensor that
automatically adjusts the intensity of the sign according to the amount of
ambient light.
         (d)   Digital signs that have dynamically moving content, video,
streaming, or scrolling text are not allowed.
         (e)   Digital signs must be designed to either freeze the display in
one static position, display a full black screen, or turn off in the event of a
malfunction.
         (f)   The change from one message to another message may not be more
frequent than once every 15 seconds and the actual change process must be
accomplished in two seconds or less.
         (g)   If attached to a building or displayed inside a building so as
to be visible from outside, the digital sign shall be considered to be a
building sign and included in the maximum 20% of a building facade that is
allowed to have signs.
         (h)   If the digital sign is a freestanding or monument sign, no other
freestanding or monument sign is permitted per street frontage per property.
      (8)   Awning and canopy signs.
         (a)   Awning and canopy signs are allowed for non-residential uses.
Awnings and canopies shall be installed in compliance with current editions of
adopted building codes and subject to permitting and inspection by the Building
Safety Division.
         (b)   Awning and canopy signs may be permitted only as an integral
part of the awning or canopy to which they are attached or applied. Signs shall
not be attached on top of or project beyond the fascia of a freestanding
canopy. Signs may be installed on top of a canopy that is attached to and
supported by the building, provided the sign does not extend above the roofline
or eaves of the building. The sign area shall be deducted from the building
sign area allowance.
         (c)   Awnings and canopies shall not interfere with any government-
installed sign within a street right-of-way (stop signs, traffic-control sign,
and the like).
         (d)   Awning and canopies attached to the building are allowed on the
first story only. Attached awning or canopy structures shall maintain a
clearance of eight feet above a public right-of-way or finished grade. The
valance shall maintain a seven-foot clearance. An awning or canopy shall not
extend within two feet from the street curb. Posts or columns beyond the
property line are not permitted. Awning and canopies shall not project above
the roofline.
      (9)   “Open” signs. “Open” signs not exceeding two square feet are
allowed and shall not be counted in the maximum 20% facade coverage. Sign
permits are not required for these “open” signs.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.097 M-W ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   In the M-W Zone, only signs in conjunction with an existing or approved
activity are allowed, provided the sign is constructed such that it meets the
requirements of §
152.040 of this chapter.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.098 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   In addition to the allowances for signs provided by this section, temporary
signs are allowed on private property with the following standards.
   (A)   No more than one temporary sign is permitted per business. Temporary
signs are not permitted in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The maximum size of temporary signs shall be as follows:
      (1)   Real estate sign for property with building: four square feet;
      (2)   Real estate sign for vacant property: eight square feet;
      (3)   Other temporary signs: six square feet; and
      (4)   Community event signs: unlimited.
   (C)   Temporary signs are allowed for not more than 30 consecutive days or
for any period of time during which the property is for sale, lease, or rent,
or for an election or event.
   (D)   Temporary signs shall be secured so as not to be movable (pushed,
pulled, blown, and the like).
   (E)   No objects shall be attached to temporary signs, such as, balloons,
banners, and the like.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.099 EXCEPTIONS.
   Provisions and regulations of this subchapter shall not apply to the
following signs:
   (A)   Real estate signs not exceeding six square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon which such signs are
located only;
   (B)   One professional name plate not exceeding one square foot in area;
   (C)   Temporary public agency or institutional signs not over eight square
feet in area for may be placed within the public right-of-way. Temporary public
agency or institutional signs shall be for a specific event and allowed to be
placed no more than three days prior to the event and no more than one day
following the event. The signs shall not be located within eight feet of
vehicular travel lanes, not be located in bicycle lanes or parking spaces, nor
impede pedestrian access or opening of vehicle doors. The signs may be placed
on a sidewalk, however a minimum four feet of lateral clearance shall be
maintained on a sidewalk. Placement of temporary public agency or institutional
signs within Highway 101 right-of-way are subject to agreement with the Oregon
Department of Transportation;
   (D)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, or contractor when placed upon
work under construction, and not exceeding 12 square feet in area;
   (E)   An occupational sign denoting only the name and profession of an
occupant in a commercial building, public institution building, or dwelling
house, and not exceeding two square feet in area;
   (F)   Memorial signs or tablet, names of buildings and date of erection when
cut into any masonry surface, or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible materials;
   (G)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, danger, and such
temporary, emergency, or non-advertising signs as may be approved by the City
Council;
   (H)   Election campaign signs not exceeding six square feet in area which
are in compliance with state law; and
   (I)   Any community/civic events: limited to events that are part of,
endorsed, sanctioned, condoned, or officially approved by the city or the city
Chamber of Commerce.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.100 MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE OF SIGNS.
   All signs, together with all of their supports, braces, guys, and anchors,
shall be kept in good repair and maintained in a safe condition. All signs
shall be maintained in a neat, clean, and attractive condition.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.101 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign shall be removed when the associated business or event has
been discontinued or completed, or when the sign is no longer properly repaired
or maintained as required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Abandoned non-conforming signs shall be removed in their entirety.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.102 VARIANCES.
   To provide for reasonable interpretation of this subchapter, and in certain
instances where this subchapter will produce hardship, a business owner (with
permission from the property owner, if different) may apply for a variance
pursuant to §§
152.170 through
152.173 of this chapter.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 152.103 LIABILITY.
   The sign owner shall remain fully responsible for the consequences,
including the safety of the public, of constructing and maintaining the signs.
Sign owner further agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the city harmless
against and from any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities, including
fines and penalties, and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable
legal, accounting, consulting, laboratory, engineering, and other expenses
(collectively, the “losses”) which may be imposed upon or incurred by the city
or asserted by any other party or parties (including without limitation, a
governmental entity), arising out of or in connection with the placement,
construction, and maintenance of signs, regardless of whether or not such
losses arise from activities of sign owner.
(Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017)
EXCEPTIONS
§ 152.115 PROJECTIONS FROM BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Architectural features, such as cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades,
gutters, chimneys, and flues shall not project more than 24 inches into a
required side yard setback or more than 48 inches into a required front or rear
yard setback, nor in any case more than one-third the distance into any
required yard setback.
   (B)   Building wall projections, such as bay, bow, and garden windows,
fireplaces, and stoves, that protrude into required yards setback shall not be
longer than seven feet in length, shall not protrude closer than five feet to a
side yard property line. There shall be no more than one wall projection per
building side, except building sides exceeding a 30 lineal foot length may have
a maximum of two-bay, bow, or garden windows. Bay, bow, and garden windows
shall have windows on all sides, and shall not protrude into any required
parking space or area.
   (C)   Uncovered decks may project no more than one-third the distance into
any required yard setback, but covered areas such as porches are not permitted
such exception. An access landing no more than three feet by three feet (nine
square feet) and attendant stairway; or ADA compliant ramp may project into a
required side yard setback, provided it is the minimum encroachment necessary
to provide safe access, and is no closer than three feet to the property line.
   (D)   This section has no application to driveways or other such features
that are not projections but are flush to the ground.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 324-20, passed 7-21-
2020)
§ 152.116 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   If a legally created lot does not meet the lot size requirements of the zone
in which the property is located, the lot may be occupied by a use permitted in
the zone subject to the other requirements of the zone, provided that, if there
is an area deficiency, residential use shall be limited to a single-family
dwelling unit.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 71, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 225, passed 10-16-
1995; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.117 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Chimneys, elevator shaft housings, aerials, and flag poles are not subject
to the building height limitations of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 152.130 PURPOSE.
   Certain types of uses require special consideration prior to their being
permitted in a particular zone. The reasons for requiring such special
consideration include, among others, the size of the area required for the full
development of such uses, the nature of the traffic problems incidental to
operation of the uses, and the effect such uses have on adjoining land uses and
on the growth and development of the city as a whole. All uses permitted
conditionally possess unique and special characteristics making impractical
their inclusion as outright uses in many of the various zones herein defined.
Location and operation of designated conditional uses shall be reasonably
compatible with adjacent uses and authorized only by issuance of a conditional
use permit.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.131 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Conditional uses listed may be permitted, enlarged, or altered upon
authorization by the Planning Commission in accordance with the standards and
procedures set herein.
   (A)   In taking action on a conditional use permit application, the Planning
Commission may permit or deny the application.
   (B)   In approving a conditional use request or the modification of a
conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to those
standards and requirements expressly specified by this subchapter, additional
conditions which are considered necessary to protect the best interests of the
surrounding area or the city as a whole. These conditions may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimensions;
      (2)   Limiting the height of buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing or decreasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location, and lighting of signs;
      (7)   Requiring fencing, screening, landscaping, berming, or other
facilities to minimize impacts on adjacent or nearby property, to a height
appropriate for the facility as approved by the Planning Commission;
      (8)   Designating sites for open space;
      (9)   Setting a time limit for which the conditional use is approved;
      (10)   Site reclamation upon discontinuance of use;
      (11)   Requiring a waiver of remonstrance;
      (12)   Limiting hours of operation; and
      (13)   Determining the appropriate location, direction, and intensity of
lighting.
   (C)   In the case of a use existing prior to and classified in this chapter
as a conditional use, a change in use or lot area or an alteration of structure
shall conform with the requirements for conditional use.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may require, or the city may require, that an
applicant obtaining a conditional use permit furnish the city with a
performance agreement of up to the value of the cost of the improvement to be
guaranteed by such agreement, in order to assure that the conditional use is
completed according to the plans as approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.132 BUILDING PERMIT FOR AN APPROVED CONDITIONAL USE.
   Building permits for all or any portion of a conditional use shall be issued
only on the basis of the plan as approved by the Planning Commission. Any
substantial change in the approved plan shall be resubmitted to the Planning
Commission as a new application for a conditional use.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.133 TIME LIMIT ON A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Approval of a conditional use shall be void two years after the effective
date of the decision if the authorized development action is not initiated in
that period. As used in this section, INITIATED means that building permits or
other necessary approvals have been secured and exercised or maintained valid,
or, if no such approvals are required, that the authorized use has been
established.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.134 REVOCATION OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation by the
Planning Commission if the application includes or included any false
information, or if it is determined that the conditions of approval have not
been complied with or are not being maintained, or the conditional use becomes
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare.
   (B)   In order to consider revocation of a conditional use permit, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing as prescribed under §
152.206 of this chapter in order for the permit holder to show cause why such
permit should not be revoked. If the Planning Commission finds that the
conditions of permit approval have not been complied with or are not being
maintained, a reasonable time shall be given for rectification, and if
corrections are not made within that time, revocation of the permit shall
become effective. The Planning Commission shall revoke the permit, specifying
the effective date of such revocation.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.135 REAPPLICATION LIMIT.
   Reapplication for conditional use permits cannot be made within one year
after revocation or denial, except that the Planning Commission may allow a new
application if, in its opinion, new evidence or a change in circumstances
warrants it.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.136 STANDARDS GOVERNING CONDITIONAL USES.
   In addition to the standards of the zone in which the conditional use is
located and other standards of this chapter, conditional uses shall meet the
following standards.
   (A)   The site under consideration is suitable for the proposed use
considering:
      (1)   The size, design, and operating characteristics of the use;
      (2)   The adequacy of transportation access to the site;
      (3)   The natural and physical features of the site, such as general
topography and natural resource values;
      (4)   The proposed use is compatible with existing and permitted uses on
adjacent lands, considering the factors in division (A)(1) above;
      (5)   Any lighting provided shall not shine or glare onto adjoining
streets or properties. Suggest using lights of low stature with shielding. The
applicant shall demonstrate through a lighting plan that this standard is met;
and
      (6)   Landscaping shall be designed to provide adequate vegetative cover.
   (B)   Special setback requirements.
      (1)   Buildings and pens, which are a part of kennels and animal
hospitals, and active recreation use areas which are a part of outdoor
commercial amusement or recreation establishments, shall be located no closer
than 75 feet from a residential zone.
      (2)   Clubs, lodges, or fraternal organizations in an R-4 Zone, and
community swimming pools and buildings housing recreational facilities in
residential zones, shall be located no closer than 30 feet from any other lot
in a residential zone.
   (C)   Standards for cemeteries. Land used or intended to be used for the
burial of the dead. Cemeteries may include columbarium, crematoria, mausoleums,
and mortuaries within their boundaries.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for earthen burial purposes only shall be two
acres.
      (2)   The minimum lot size when a columbarium, crematorium, mausoleum, or
mortuary is included in the cemetery shall be five acres.
      (3)   Cemeteries shall be landscaped and there shall be a buffer as
determined by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   A plat of the cemetery must be recorded in accordance with the
applicable state statute.
      (5)   No cemetery lots shall be sold prior to development and approval of
an irrigation system for grounds maintenance.
      (6)   The maximum sign area shall be 20 feet.
      (7)   All uses must comply with the applicable state standards.
   (D)   Standards for day care facilities. Day care facilities are permitted
subject to the following.
      (1)   The minimum front and rear yards shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   The minimum side yard shall be ten feet.
      (3)   All state and county licensing and health department requirements
must be met.
      (4)   There shall be a maximum lot coverage of 40%.
      (5)   The minimum lot area for day care facilities in a residential
district or adjacent to a residential district shall be a minimum 10,000 square
feet.
      (6)   The Planning Commission may require a fenced outdoor play area be
provided.
      (7)   Child care provided at a public or private school for before and/or
after school care, exclusively for students affiliated with the school, is not
subject to the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Standards for drive-in or drive-up establishment. Access shall be
determined based on a site review which considers the following:
      (1)   Site size;
      (2)   Road classification;
      (3)   Sight distance and allowed mph;
      (4)   Adjacent development;
      (5)   Driveway entrances and exits shall be clearly marked;
      (6)   Drive-in facilities located in the parking lot on part of a larger
commercial center shall not have separate access points to the street and shall
utilize the center’s access points; and
      (7)   Lighting, sign illumination and height, and hours of operation may
be restricted to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
   (F)   Standards for golf courses. A golf course is an area of land with
highly maintained turf laid out for the game of golf, generally with a series
of nine or more holes, each including a tee, a fairway, a putting green, and
often one or more natural or artificial hazards. For the purposes of this
section, a golf course includes executive golf courses and par three courses. A
golf course does not include pitch and putt golf courses, miniature golf
courses, and driving ranges.
      (1)   The course shall be situated so that it does not create any hazards
to existing developed properties.
      (2)   The maximum sign area shall be 35 square feet.
      (3)   Required minimum setbacks to any primary structure shall be 100
feet.
      (4)   When driving ranges are to be included as part of the golf course:
         (a)   Hours of operation shall be limited so that outdoor lighting is
not required;
         (b)   The range shall be located in such a manner that the lights do
not shine outside the perimeter of the golf course; or
         (c)   Screen over six feet in height shall be located at least 100
feet from the property line.
      (5)   Accessory uses to a golf course include but are not limited to
parking, maintenance buildings, cart storage and repair, pro shop, driving
range, and eating and drinking facilities.
   (G)   Standards for home occupation.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be secondary to the main use of the
property as a residence.
      (2)   The home occupation shall be limited to either an accessory
structure or to not over 25% of the floor area of the dwelling. If located
within an accessory structure, the home occupation shall not utilize over 600
square feet of floor area.
      (3)   No person other than members of the immediate family residing in
the dwelling is to be engaged in the home occupation.
      (4)   No window display and no sample commodities displayed outside the
building shall be allowed. One unlighted sign not exceeding one and one-half
square feet in area shall be permitted. The sign shall either be attached to
the exterior of the building, placed in a window of the building, or, if
detached from the building, shall not be located in a required front or street
side yard.
      (5)   No on-site sale of or stock commodities, kept or purchased for
sale, which are not produced on the premises shall be allowed.
      (6)   The home occupation shall not interfere with the existing uses on
the property on which it is located, or the existing or permitted uses on
adjacent properties.
      (7)   No materials or mechanical equipment shall be used which is
detrimental to the residential use of the dwelling or adjoining dwellings
because of vibration, noise, dust, smoke, odor, interference with radio or
television reception, or other factors.
      (8)   Business related vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall not create
unreasonable congestion in the neighborhood.
      (9)   No materials or commodities shall be delivered to or from the
residence which are of such bulk or quantity as to create undesirable traffic
or congestion.
      (10)   No parking of customer’s vehicles in a manner or frequency so as
to cause disturbance or inconvenience to nearby residents, or so as to
necessitate off-street parking shall be allowed.
      (11)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the permitting of
construction of any structure that would not otherwise be allowed in the zone
in which the home occupation is to be, or is established.
      (12)   No noise, lights, dust, smoke, odors, or electromagnetic
frequencies generated which interferes with surrounding residential or
commercial uses, such as, telephone, television, radio, or computer.
      (13)   No storage or use of any materials which present an increased risk
of hazard or danger (such as, explosion, pollution generation, or fire) to the
dwelling, the premises or surrounding structures as compared to domestic use
products found within dwellings shall occur.
      (14)   A city business license is obtained and maintained in good
standing for the location.
   (H)   Standards for mini-storage.
      (1)   The plan for the mini-storage operation, including signs, structure
elevations, painting, plot plan and materials, shall be submitted for review
and approval.
      (2)   Each individual space for rent or sale shall be less than 500
square feet.
      (3)   Mini-storage shall be limited to dead storage. Outside storage
shall be limited to boats, recreational vehicles. and similar vehicles placed
within a designated, dust-free surfaced area surrounded by a sight-obscuring
six-foot fence.
      (4)   Yards shall be permanently landscaped and yard dimensions adjacent
to residential zones shall be the same as within the residential zone.
      (5)   One parking space for each 25 cubicles located at the project
office shall be required for use of prospective clients.
      (6)   Sight-obscuring screening shall be required to a height appropriate
for the facility as approved by the Planning Commission, and shall be
accomplished with vegetation, or fencing landscaped with vegetation, to
minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
      (7)   The traffic lane shall be 12 feet wide and have a ten-foot parking
lane. except where the traffic lane does not serve storage cubicles. All areas
providing for vehicle access, parking, and movement shall be improved to
minimum public road standards.
      (8)   Change of use to another use, such as retail sales or repair
services shall require reapplication and conformity to applicable state laws
and ordinances.
      (9)   An on-site caretaker or 24-hour on-site manager may be permitted.
      (10)   There shall be only one access from each adjacent street.
      (11)   Outside lighting may be required for all structures.
   (I)   Standards for mobile home/manufactured dwelling and recreational
vehicle parks. A mobile home/manufactured dwelling park or recreational park
may be permitted as a conditional use, if authorized in the underlying zone, if
it further meets the requirements of the applicable state statute and the
standards of the Oregon Board of Health. In addition, the following minimum
standards shall apply.
 Mobile Home/ Manufactured       Mobile Home/ Manufactured Recreational
 Dwelling Park R-3 Zone Vehicles Dwelling Park Other Zones
                     Mobile Home/      Mobile Home/
                     Manufactured      Manufactured Dwelling Recreational
                     Dwelling Park R-  Park Other Zones
                     3 Zone Vehicles
Minimum size of park 4 spaces          4 spaces              2 acres
Minimum size of      5,000 square feet 4,000 square feet     2,000 square feet
space
Minimum width of     50 feet           40 feet               30 feet
space
Minimum length of    80 feet           80 feet               60 feet
space
Minimum distance
between space and    20 feet           20 feet               20 feet
street right-of-way
Minimum distance
between spaces and   20 feet           15 feet               10 feet
all other property
lines
Minimum distance
between              20 feet           15 feet               10 feet
units
Minimum distance
between dwelling or
recreational vehicle 30 feet           30 feet               20 feet
and community or
service buildings
 
      (1)   Each access road connection with a public street shall have a
surface width of at least 30 feet and all other access roads shall have a
surface width of at least 20 feet. All access roads and parking areas and
walkways shall be surfaced to minimum city road standards and be well drained.
Walkways not less than three feet wide may be required to be provided from
manufactured dwellings or recreational vehicle spaces to community and service
buildings. All access roads and walkways shall be well lighted.
      (2)   Developed recreation area shall be provided which contains a
minimum of 2,500 square feet or 200 square feet per manufactured dwelling or
recreational vehicle space, whichever requirement is greater.
      (3)   All areas not used for manufactured dwelling or recreational
vehicle spaces, motor vehicles, parking, traffic circulation, or service or
community buildings, shall be completely and permanently landscaped. The
landscaping shall be maintained in good condition.
      (4)   Sight-obscuring screening shall be required to a height appropriate
for the facility as approved by the Planning Commission, and shall be
accomplished with vegetation, or fencing landscaped with vegetation, to
minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
   (J)   Standards for mobile vending stands.
      (1)   No person shall operate a mobile vending stand without having
obtained a business license.
      (2)   No person shall conduct or do business from a mobile vending stand
on any public right-of-way, street, sidewalk, or public property. The selling
of merchandise or conducting of business from a mobile vending stand shall only
be done upon private property.
      (3)   No person shall operate a mobile vending stand, or sell any food,
soft drink, or non-alcoholic beverage dispensed from a mobile vending stand
unless the mobile vending stand has been inspected by the Building Official and
by the State Fire Marshal if the mobile vending stand has a cooking or heating
apparatus. The Building Official shall determine that the stand is structurally
and mechanically sound, and the design will not create a nuisance of hazard to
the public. The State Fire Marshal shall determine that any cooking or heating
apparatus is in conformance with the provisions of applicable fire codes.
      (4)   No person shall conduct or do business from a mobile vending stand
unless proof is submitted to the city that all health and sanitary permits
required by the state and county have been obtained.
      (5)   All utensils and equipment used by any person in the operation of a
mobile vending stand shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall conform to all standards prescribed by state law and county ordinances
and regulations adopted thereto.
      (6)   Any person operating a mobile vending stand shall pick up any
paper, cardboard, wood, or plastic containers, wrappers, or any litter in any
form which is deposited by any person on the sidewalk, street, or public
property within 35 feet of the mobile vending stand at any time the person is
conducting business, and shall be responsible for the disposal of same.
      (7)   No person conducting business from a mobile vending stand shall
make any loud noise for the purpose of advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to the mobile vending stand.
      (8)   No mobile vending stand shall be left unattended.
      (9)   No product shall be sold from a mobile vending stand between 30
minutes after sunset and 30 minutes after sunrise. The mobile vending stand
shall be removed from its place of operation within one hour after sunset to a
private storage place out of view. A mobile vending stand shall not be placed
upon any property for the operation of business before sunrise.
      (10)   The mobile vending stand must be placed on privately-owned
property when selling merchandise and any person conducting business from a
mobile vending stand shall have obtained approval of the Planning Commission to
operate the mobile vending stand as a conditional use on the subject property.
The conditional use approval by the Planning Commission shall be valid for one
year, or such lesser time as the authorization may specify, from the date of
approval, unless revoked, terminated, or extended.
      (11)   (a)   No person shall sell any items, including but not limited to
food, beverages, flowers, balloons, or other items, or offer them for sale,
from any street, sidewalk, public right-of-way, or public property within the
city limits; provided however that items permitted to be sold from a “mobile
vending stand” may be sold from public property or public right-of-way which
has been closed by motion or resolution of the City Council if the mobile
vending stand is doing business in conjunction with a festival/community event.
         (b)   A “festival or community event” is a temporary use of land for
the purpose of providing general community amusement, recognition of historical
events or traditions, or celebration of community-wide local products, which
are organized by non-profit organizations and the proceeds of the festival or
event are used to promote the purposes of the non-profit organization or
donated to other non-profit organizations.
   (K)   Standards for parks and campgrounds in the T-C Zone.
      (1)   Campgrounds shall be utilized for overnight temporary use for
vacation, recreational, or emergency purposes, but not for residential
purposes. Camp sites may be occupied by tents, travel trailers, or recreational
vehicles.
      (1)   Campgrounds authorized in the T-C Zone shall not include
intensively developed recreational uses, such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
or commercial amusement uses or commercial services, such as retail stores or
gas stations.
      (2)   Individual camp sites may not include utility connections for
recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Central comfort stations and similar
central facilities may be permitted.
      (3)   Area devoted to park or campground development shall not exceed ten
acres per development.
      (4)   Development camp sites shall not exceed four sites per acre.
   (L)   Standards for public utility facilities, such as electric substation
or transformer, public or community domestic water supply reservoir or pumping
station, or public or community sewage disposal plant or pumping station; radio
or television tower or transmitter; or governmental structure or use of land.
      (1)   In a residential zone, all equipment storage shall be within an
enclosed building.
      (2)   Maintenance shops shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties.
      (3)   Public utility facilities shall be visually screened by a sight-
obscuring screening which shall be required to a height appropriate for the
facility as approved by the Planning Commission, and shall be accomplished with
vegetation, or fencing landscaped with vegetation, to minimize impacts on
adjacent properties.
   (M)   For a recreational vehicle located on an individual lot.
      (1)   Approval of such will not encourage a pattern of development
incompatible with surrounding area development.
      (2)   The placement must be approved by the city and must be connected to
city approved sewer and water systems.
      (3)   Sight-obscuring screening shall be required to a height as approved
by the Planning Commission and shall be accomplished with vegetation or fencing
landscaped with vegetation to minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
      (4)   Upon compliance with the above and any additional conditions which
the Planning Commission feels necessary to ensure compatibility with
surrounding area development, a conditional use permit will be given.
   (N)   Standards for solid waste disposal sites.
      (1)   Submitted plans and specifications shall contain sufficient
information to allow the Planning Commission to set conditions of approval:
         (a)   Appropriate use of the land;
         (b)   Setbacks from the property line;
         (c)   Location of vehicular access points and assurances that roadway
development is sufficient for heavy traffic loads; and
         (d)   Public safety considerations including the potential for the
transport of long-term groundwater contaminants.
      (2)   (a)   If the solid waste disposal area is located less than 300
feet from a residential zone or a state highway, sight-obscuring screening
shall be provided to height appropriate for the facility as approved by the
Planning Commission, but no less than five feet.
         (b)   Visual screening shall be accomplished with vegetation to the
required height within four years or be a fence landscaped with vegetation to
the height of the fence within four years.
      (3)   All areas used for solid waste disposal shall be located no closer
than 100 feet from a property line.
      (4)   The property shall be fenced to prevent blowing paper and debris
and to control access to the property by pedestrians and vehicles.
   (O)   Standards for solid waste transfer stations.
      (1)   Submitted plans and specifications shall contain sufficient
information to allow the Planning Commission to set conditions of approval
pertaining to:
         (a)   Appropriate use of the land;
         (b)   Setbacks from the property line;
         (c)   Location of vehicular access points and road development
standards; and
         (d)   Public safety considerations, including monitoring for seepage
transport via surface and groundwater.
      (2)   Solid waste transfer stations shall be fenced to prevent blowing
paper and debris and to control access.
      (3)   Sight-obscuring screening shall be provided to a height appropriate
for the facility as approved by the Planning Commission, but no less than five
feet. Visual screening shall be accomplished with vegetation to the required
height within four years or be a fence landscaped with vegetation to the height
of the fence within four years.
      (4)   Facilities and storage shall be located no closer than 30 feet from
any property line.
      (5)   Hours of operations shall be established.
      (6)   Operation shall be conducted to prevent seepage, excess noise and
odor.
   (P)   For approval for uses involving construction, addition, or
reconstruction of piers, docks, boathouses, or similar facilities.
      (1)   In a Marine Waterway (M-W) Zone, all uses and activities shall be
subject to the standards set forth in the estuarine plan. Where these documents
are in conflict, the estuarine plan shall prevail.
      (2)   Evidence shall be provided that the applicant has complied with or
fully intends to comply with all standards of the Department of Environmental
Quality, the Division of State Lands and all other agencies having interests or
ordinances applicable to the property in question.
      (3)   The facility or any use related to it is designed to avoid water
pollution to occur to any nearby tidelands, marshlands, rivers, streams, or
other waterways used for the raising, production, or preservation of marine
life or other natural resources.
      (4)   The facility shall not substantially alter the course of any
channel or the natural movement of any waters, or result in increased flood
hazards or the formation of appreciable bottom or sludge deposits deleterious
to marine life, and shall meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   No dock, pier, or similar facility shall extend into any
watercourse more than 25 feet from ordinary low water line nor 50 feet from
ordinary high water line, unless it can be shown that such extension is
necessary and will not increase flood hazards or create other problems, such as
the deterioration or destruction of marine life or wildlife habitat as a result
of the extension;
         (b)   No pier, dock, or similar facility shall extend into the
navigable channel any distance greater than required for safe moorage and shall
be designed so as to minimize potential flood hazard and loss of navigable
waterway area; or
         (c)   No pier, dock, or similar facility shall extend into any
watercourse more than 5% of the width thereof as measured perpendicular from
the mean low water line on one side of the watercourse to the mean low water
line on the opposite side.
      (5)   No plumbing facilities for the handling of domestic or industrial
waste shall be a part of the facility unless approved by the Health Department.
      (6)   Application for a permit for a pier, dock, bulkhead, boathouse, or
similar facility shall include:
         (a)   The source of the applicant’s right to construct the facility;
         (b)   The purpose of the facility;
         (c)   The legal description of the area where the facility will be
located;
         (d)   A map and drawings, showing the plan for construction of the
facility. Such plan shall include a vicinity map drawn to scale showing the
location and design of similar facilities and other development within 250 feet
of the parcel upon which the improvement is proposed; and
         (e)   The date when the project is scheduled to begin and to be
completed.
      (7)   Plans for moorage facilities shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   In new subdivisions tentatively approved after February 12,
1974, docks having less than ten moorage spaces will be approved only in the
instance that no other public or private means of launching or moorage is
available or can be developed within 1,000 feet of the site in question.
         (b)   Facilities being proposed in areas where it is likely that
additional similar structures will be desired shall be designed to be combined
into joint facilities wherever possible.
         (c)   The design of moorages must provide sheer logs or similar
devices for fending off debris. Such improvements need not be maintained during
periods where there is no danger of flood water.
         (d)   Docks shall have the long dimension running parallel to the
channel, unless future development will result in pier construction or moorages
being connected, necessitating facility design perpendicular to the channel.
         (e)   The width of those portions of such facilities dimension
required to provide safe access and moorage.
         (f)   One dock shall not be closer to another than the length of the
shorter structure or 25 feet, whichever distance is greater.
         (g)   The number of ramps, fenders, and other land connections, and
the number of piling and other projection below the surface of the water, shall
be minimized.
         (h)   Walkways shall be provided on only one side of individual
moorages unless it can be satisfactorily shown that walkways are necessary on
both sides. Walkways and breakwaters shall have a width not greater than
required to provide safe moorage and access thereto.
      (8)   Each dock, boathouse, or similar facility shall have the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers permit number permanently affixed to the outboard side of
the facility in a clearly visible location prior to requesting final city
inspection for conditional use permit issuance.
      (9)   No owner of a dock or similar facility shall exercise any
proprietary rights on the water surrounding such structure. Violations of such
will be considered a failure to maintain the conditional use approval
requirements.
      (10)   Recognition of potential flood hazards, as well as the need to
protect the visual attractiveness of the waterway shall be shown in design and
exterior materials used in construction of docks, piers, boathouses, and
similar facilities.
      (11)   In taking action on a conditional use request, the Planning
Commission may consult any state, federal, or local agency it feels appropriate
for consultation and advice.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 92, passed 7-7-1982; Ord. 93, passed 7-7-1982;
Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 152.150 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a policy and guidelines for
the regulation of non-conforming uses and structures, it is further the purpose
of this section to work towards bringing non-conforming uses and structures
into compliance with this chapter, the Comprehensive Plan, and other applicable
ordinances and regulations. However, existing non-conforming uses and
structures may continue, subject to the limitations and restrictions contained
in this subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.151 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Structure or land, or structure and land in
combination, which was lawfully established in compliance with all applicable
ordinances and laws, but which because of the application of a subsequent
zoning ordinance, no longer conforms to the setback, height, maximum lot
coverage, size, or other building development requirements of this chapter.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Use of structure or land, or structure and land in
combination, which was lawfully established in compliance with all applicable
ordinances and laws, but which, because of the application of a subsequent
zoning ordinance, no longer conforms to the use requirements for the zoning
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.152 CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE.
   Existing non-conformities may continue indefinitely, changes in use,
alterations of structures, and new or expanded uses shall conform to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.153 EXPANSION OR RENOVATION OF NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A non-conforming use (existing at the time zoning was adopted or
changed in the area) may be expanded or renovated if the Planning Commission
determines that such use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare, and that such use is in compliance with all state rules and local
ordinances.
   (B)   Expansions or renovations of non-conforming uses and structures may be
allowed providing the work does not result in a greater adverse effect on the
surrounding area considering factors, such as parking, traffic, dust, noise,
lighting, or hazards. The Planning Commission may allow a request for an
expansion or renovation of a non-conforming use upon holding a public hearing
following the conditional use procedure.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.154 EXTENSION, EXPANSION, ENLARGEMENT, OR RENOVATION OF NON-CONFORMING
STRUCTURES.
   Non-conforming structures may be extended, expanded, enlarged, or renovated
only if such changes conform to the standards in the underlying zone.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.155 CHANGE OF NON-CONFORMING USE.
   The change from one non-conforming use to another non-conforming use shall
be allowed only if the Planning Commission determines that such structure is
suitable only for another non-conforming use no more detrimental to surrounding
properties than the one to be replaced.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.156 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS OF NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Normal maintenance and repairs are permitted that do not result in the
alteration of the footprint, volume, or height of the building.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.157 DISCONTINUATION OF A NON-CONFORMING USE.
   If a non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of one year, further
use of the property shall be in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.158 DESTRUCTION OF A NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   (A)   If a non-conforming structure, or a structure containing a non-
conforming use, is unintentionally destroyed, it may be fully replaced within
three years, providing the work does not result in an alteration of the
footprint, height, or volume of the structure, or building outside the property
line.
   (B)   Present ordinance requirements shall be complied with unless a
hardship is involved.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
VARIANCES
§ 152.170 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY VARIANCES.
   The Planning Commission may authorize variances from the requirements of
this chapter where it can be shown that, owing to special and unusual
circumstances related to a specific piece of property, strict application of
the ordinance would cause an undue or unnecessary hardship. No variance shall
be granted to allow the use of property for a purpose not authorized within the
zone in which the proposed use would be located.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 185, passed 12-22-1992)
§ 152.171 CIRCUMSTANCES FOR GRANTING A VARIANCE.
   A variance may be granted only in the event that all of the following
circumstances exist:
   (A)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property which
do not apply generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity, and
result from lot size or shape, legally existing prior to the date of this
chapter, topography, or other circumstances over which the applicant has no
control;
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right of
the applicant substantially the same as owners of other property in the same
zone or vicinity possess;
   (C)   The variance would not be materially detrimental to the purposes of
this chapter, or to property in the zone or vicinity in which the property is
located, or otherwise conflict with the objectives of any city plan or policy;
   (D)   The hardship is not self-imposed and the variance requested is the
minimum variance which would alleviate the hardship; and
   (E)   The hardship asserted as a basis for the variance does not arise from
a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.172 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   The following procedures shall be followed in applying for and acting on a
variance.
   (A)   A property owner may initiate a request for a variance by filing an
application with the City Recorder, using forms prescribed pursuant to §
152.205 of this chapter. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan
drawn to scale showing the condition to be varied and the dimensions and
arrangement of the proposed development. The Planning Commission may request
other drawings or material essential to an understanding of the variance
request.
   (B)   Before the Planning Commission may act on a request for a variance, it
shall hold a public hearing. Section
152.206 of this chapter sets procedure for notice of public hearing.
   (C)   Within five days after a decision has been rendered with reference to
a request for a variance, the City Recorder shall provide the applicant with
notice of the decision of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   The Planning Commission’s decision is final unless it is appealed
pursuant to §
152.203 of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.173 TIME LIMIT ON A VARIANCE.
   (A)   Authorization of a variance shall be void after one year unless
substantial construction pursuant thereto has taken place.
   (B)   However, the Planning Commission may extend authorization for an
additional period not to exceed one year, on request.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.185 AUTHORIZATION TO INITIATE AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment to the text of this chapter or to a zoning map may be initiated
by the City Council, by the Planning Commission, or by application of a
property owner.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.186 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedure for amending the zoning ordinance specified in §§
152.200 through
152.210 of this chapter shall be followed.
   (B)   In considering an amendment to a zoning map, the Planning Commission
shall seek to determine the following:
      (1)   That the change is in accord with the land use plan for the area;
and
      (2)   (a)   That there has either been a substantial change in the
character of the area since zoning was adopted and which warrants changing the
zone; or that the zoning adopted for the area was in error.
         (b)   If the proposed change is not in accord with the land use plan
for the area, the Planning Commission and the City Council shall seek to
determine that an alteration of the plan can be justified on the basis that
there has been a substantial change in the character of the area since the plan
was adopted and which warrants a change in the plan, or that the plan adopted
for the area was in error.
   (C)   The office of the City Recorder shall maintain records of amendments
to the text and map of this chapter in a form convenient for use by the public.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 152.187 LIMITATION.
   No application of a property owner for an amendment to the text of this
chapter or to the zoning map shall be considered by the Planning Commission
within the one-year period immediately following a previous denial of such
request, except the Planning Commission may permit a new application, if in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, new evidence or a change of circumstances
warrant it.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
§ 152.188 TIME LIMIT ON A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.
   Approval of a zoning map amendment may be voided after two years, unless
otherwise specified, by the Planning Commission upon finding at a public
hearing that substantial construction has not taken place on the rezoned
property.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 152.200 ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall have the power and duty to enforce the provisions of the
subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.201 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Petitions, applications, and appeals provided for in this chapter shall be
made on forms prescribed by the city. Applications shall be accompanied by
final proposed plans, specifications, and such other information as specified
on the application form or by this subchapter. An application shall be deemed
complete 30 days after receipt of the material, unless the applicant received
prior notice from the city that the application is incomplete. An applicant
must apply at one time for all approvals required by this chapter for a
development project, except as allowed by the Planning Commission. City action
on a consolidated application is subject to the time limitations provided in
the applicable state statute. If the applicant for an action is not the
property owner, the application shall be accompanied by a letter from the
property owner which authorizes the action.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.202 SURVEY REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time an application for a permit is submitted for structural
improvements which require compliance with setback requirements, the city may
require that the applicant provide a copy of a recorded survey which identifies
the location of the property line(s) from which the setback is applicable. At
the request of the city, the applicant shall also provide:
   (A)   Certification that the survey monuments are present at the site;
   (B)   Certification that the property line(s) are identifiable by stake-out
of the monuments, and will remain available during the course of the
construction to confirm the improvements are in conformance with applicable
setbacks;
   (C)   A statement of understanding that failure to locate the structure in
compliance with applicable setbacks may result in city action to pursue
remedies found in Section 12.030 of City of Depoe Bay Zoning Ordinance No. 24;
and
   (D)   A foundation survey which documents compliance with the minimum
setback requirements.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.203 REVIEW CATEGORIES.
   The following table defines how applications will be categorized and
processed:
Application Review    Affected Owners Public Hearing Review Procedure Appeal To
Type        Authority Notified
Application    Review       Affected                Review
Type           Authority    Owners   Public Hearing Procedure     Appeal To
                            Notified
Appeal planner Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
decision       Commission                           152.208(A)
Appeal
Planning       City Council Yes      Yes            §            LUBA***
Commission                                          152.208(B)
decision
Building       Planner      No       No             §            Planning
permit*                                             152.204(A)    Commission
Clearing,
filling,                                            §            Planning
excavating,    Planner      No       No             152.204(A)    Commission
and grading
permit
Coastal        Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
shorelands     Commission                           152.204(C)
Comprehensive
Plan or zoning Planning                             §
ordinance text Commission/  Yes      Yes            152.205       LUBA***
and map        City Council
amendment
Conditional    Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
uses           Commission                           152.204(C)
Development in
a special      Planner      No       No             §            Planning
flood hazard                                        152.204(A)    Commission
area
Final approval Planner      No       No             §            Planning
of partition                                        152.204(A)    Commission
Final approval
of subdivision Planning     No       Yes            §            City Council
and planned    Commission                           152.204(C)
development
Geotech report Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
               Commission                           152.204(C)
LUBA*** remand Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
               Commission                           152.208(B)
Master plan
approval of    Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
planned        Commission                           152.204(C)
development
New/
substantial
construction   Planning     No       No             §            City Council
in non-        Commission                           152.204(A)(5)
residential
zones**
Preliminary
plan approval  Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
of planned     Commission                           152.204(C)
development
Property line  Planner      Yes      No             §            Planning
adjustment                                          152.204(B)    Commission
Renovation,
extension, or
expansion of   Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
non-conforming Commission                           152.204(C)
uses and
structures
Sign permit    Planner      No       No             §            Planning
                                                    152.204(A)    Commission
Stream, pond,
wetland, and   Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
riparian area  Commission                           152.204(C)
development
Tentative      Planning                             §
approval of    Commission   Yes      Yes            152.204(C)    City Council
partition
Tentative      Planning                             §
approval of    Commission   Yes      Yes            152.204(C)    City Council
subdivision
Time extension Planning     No       No             §            City Council
request        Commission                           152.204(A)(5)
Variances      Planning     Yes      Yes            §            City Council
               Commission                           152.204(C)
*   For building permits requiring land use applications, refer to a specific
type of and use application.
 
**   Those that involve new or substantial construction in commercial, light
industrial, marine commercial, or marine planned zones. Substantial
construction is defined as more than 20% change in footprint, an increase in
building height, or change in use.
 
***   LUBA = Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals
 
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010; Ord. 325-20, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 152.204 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The review of applications received under the provisions of this chapter
shall be conducted according to the following procedures.
   (A)   Procedure for action by the City Planner on applications not subject
to notification requirement.
      (1)   The property owner or authorized agent shall submit an application
to the city.
      (2)   Upon determination that the application is complete, the city may
refer the application to affected cities, districts, local, state, or federal
agencies for comments.
      (3)   Within ten days of determining an application is complete, or such
longer period as mutually agreed to by the city and the applicant, the city
shall approve, deny, or at the City Planner’s discretion, refer the application
to the Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant shall be notified
in writing of the City Planner’s action.
      (4)   All actions of the City Planner may be appealed to the Planning
Commission pursuant to §
152.208(A) of this subchapter.
      (5)   The City Planner shall refer applications for permits set forth in
§
152.203, time extension requests, and any others that require additional
review, to the Planning Commission after deeming them complete.
   (B)   Procedure for action by the City Planner on applications subject to
notification requirement. A decision shall be consistent with applicable
provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and land use regulations.
      (1)   The property owner or authorized agent shall submit an application
to the city. Each application shall include a map showing the subject property,
tax lot, and legal description. Additionally, the application shall include the
location of all connections to off-site facilities, such as, sewage, drainage,
public roads, or easements.
      (2)   Upon determination that the application is complete, the City
Planner may refer the application to affected districts, local, state, or
federal agencies for comments.
      (3)   Within 60 days, but not less than 14 days, of determining an
application is complete, or such longer period as mutually agreed to by the
city and the applicant, the city shall approve, deny, or at the City Planner’s
discretion, refer the application to the Planning Commission for consideration.
The applicant shall be notified in writing of the City Planner’s action.
      (4)   Notice shall be mailed to owners of property within 100 feet of the
entire contiguous site for which the application is made, informing them that
they may submit written comments to the City Planner. The city shall undertake
the mailing such that property owners will have 14 days prior to the meeting to
submit written comments.
      (5)   The notice shall also include the following:
         (a)   An explanation of the nature of the application and the use or
uses that could be authorized;
         (b)   The applicable criteria for the decision, by commonly used
citation;
         (c)   A brief summary of the decision-making process;
         (d)   The street address, or other easily understood geographical
reference, of the subject property;
         (e)   The place, date, and time that comments are due;
         (f)   The name and phone number of a city contact person; and
         (g)   A statement that indicates that issues which may provide the
basis for an appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA) shall be raised in
writing prior to the expiration of the comment period and must be set forth
with sufficient specificity to enable the City Planner to respond to the issue.
      (6)   Written notice of the decision shall be provided to the applicant
and any person who submits written comments under division (B)(4) above. The
notice shall include an explanation of the appeal process to the Planning
Commission as set forth in §
152.208(A) of this subchapter.
   (C)   Procedure for land use decisions subject to a Planning Commission
hearing. A land use decision shall be consistent with applicable provisions of
the Comprehensive Plan and land use regulations.
      (1)   The property owner or authorized agent shall submit an application
or appeal to the city.
      (2)   Within five days of determining the application or appeal complete,
the city shall schedule the matter for public hearing before the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Upon determination that the application or appeal is complete, the
city may refer the application to affected cities, districts, and local, state,
or federal agencies for comments.
      (4)   Notice for, and conduct of, public hearings provided for in this
section shall be in accordance with §§
152.206 and
152.207 of this subchapter.
      (5)   Written testimony shall be submitted to the city a minimum of 24
hours in advance of the meeting in order to be copied and distributed to the
Planning Commission. Any person may attend the hearing and provide testimony.
      (6)   Decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council pursuant to §
152.208(B) of this subchapter.
   (D)   Effective date of decision. A decision is effective when signed by the
representative of the reviewing body, if there is no local appeal within the
appeal period allowed by this chapter, the decision is final at the expiration
of the appeal period. The decision of the City Council is final when signed by
the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010; Ord. 325-20, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 152.205 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE STANDARDS FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Legislative amendments.
      (1)   A legislative amendment creates and adopts as law general policies
and regulations for future land use within a jurisdiction. Examples include the
adoption or revision of a comprehensive plan or zoning regulations.
      (2)   Legislative amendments may be made for the establishment of policy.
Such an amendment may be initiated only by the City Council or Planning
Commission. A person may petition the City Council to initiate such a
legislative amendment but may not initiate the amendment by making a direct
application. Prior to proceeding with the public hearing process, the Planning
Commission shall receive authorization to proceed from the City Council.
Legislative amendments shall be made only after public notice and hearing have
been held pursuant to this section and §
152.206(A) of this subchapter.
      (3)   For legislative amendments, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing and make a recommendation to the City Council. The City Council
shall then hold a public hearing to consider the adoption of the legislative
amendment.
   (B)   Quasi-judicial amendments. 
      (1)   A quasi-judicial amendment applies the law to one or more
particular parcels of land. The quasi-judicial amendment process typically
includes a land use application for a specific property, such as, zone change,
subdivision, planned development, partition, conditional use, variance, coastal
shorelands, or geological hazards permit.
      (2)   An application for an amendment by an owner or authorized agent
shall be made in accordance with the application procedure specified in §
152.201 of this subchapter, and shall be reviewed for compliance with the
standards of this section after the notice required by §
152.206 of this subchapter, and after the conduct of a public hearing according
to §
152.207 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010; Ord. 325-20, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 152.206 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Legislative hearings. Notice of hearings for legislative amendments
shall consist of a statement specifying the date, time, place, and general
subject of the hearing, and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least three times during the three weeks prior to
the hearing. In addition, notice shall be provided in accordance with the
applicable state statute.
   (B)   Quasi-judicial hearings. Notice of quasi-judicial hearings for the
consideration of applications and appeals provided for in this chapter shall:
      (1)   (a)   Be provided in writing to the applicant and to the owners of
record of property on the most recent tax assessment roll of the county:
            1.   Within 500 feet of the boundaries of the subject property in
T-C Zones; or
            2.   Within 250 feet of the subject property in all other zones.
         (b)   The city may provide additional notices, such as, to known
neighborhood or community organizations whose boundaries include the subject
property.
      (2)   Explain the nature of the application and the use or uses which
could be authorized;
      (3)   List the applicable criteria from this chapter that apply to the
subject application;
      (4)   Set forth the street address or other easily understood information
identifying the location of the subject property;
      (5)   State the date, time, and location of the hearing;
      (6)   State that a copy of the application, all documents and evidence
submitted by or on behalf of the applicant, and applicable criteria are
available for inspection at city hall at no cost and can be provided at a
reasonable cost;
      (7)   State that a copy of the city’s staff report is available for
inspection at no cost and can be provided at a reasonable cost seven days prior
to the hearing;
      (8)   Provide the name and telephone number of the city staff person to
contact for additional information;
      (9)   Include a general explanation of the requirements for submission of
testimony and the conduct of the hearing;
      (10)   State the failure to raise an issue in the hearing, either in
person or in writing, or failure to provide statements or evidence sufficient
to afford the hearings body an opportunity to respond to the issue, precludes
appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals on that issue; and
      (11)   Notice of a quasi-judicial public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing.
   (C)   Failure to receive notice. The failure of a property owner to receive
notice as provided for in this section shall not invalidate the subject hearing
proceeding provided that the city can demonstrate by affidavit that such notice
was given.
   (D)   Mobile home/manufactured dwelling park.
      (1)   If the application changes the zone of a property which includes
all or part of a mobile home/manufactured dwelling park, the city shall give
written notice by first class mail to each existing mailing address for
occupants of the mobile home/manufactured dwelling park at least 20 days, but
not more than 40 days, before the date of the first hearing on the application.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the occupants name and address as
listed by the owner or manager of the park shall be used for notification.
   (E)   Decision or action of Planning Commission or City Council. No decision
or action by the Planning Commission or City Council shall be invalid due to
expanse contact, or bias resulting from ex-parte contact, with a member of the
Planning Commission or City Council, if the member of the decision-making body
receiving the contact:
      (1)   Places on the record the substance of any written or oral ex-parte
communications concerning the decision or action; and
      (2)   Makes an announcement of the content of the contact or
communication, and of the parties’ right to rebut the substance of the contact,
at the first hearing following the communication where action will be
considered or taken on the subject to which the communication pertains. A
communication between city staff (including consultants for legal, engineering,
planning, or other services) and the Planning Commission or City Council shall
not be considered an ex-parte contact.
   (F)   Notice of exception to state-wide planning goals. Actions involving
the consideration of exception to the state-wide planning goals shall be
subject to the notice and hearing requirements of this section and §
152.207 of this subchapter. In addition, the required notice of public hearing
shall specifically note the exceptions to be considered and shall summarize the
issues in an understandable manner.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.207 CONDUCT OF QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   Any quasi-judicial public hearing required by, or provided for, in this
subchapter shall be conducted in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Application materials. All application materials, documents, or other
evidence relied upon by the applicant for any land use approval shall be
provided to the city and made available to the public at least 20 days prior to
the hearing. If any documents or evidence in support of the application are
provided for consideration by the hearings body after 20 days prior to the
hearing, any party shall be entitled to a continuance of the hearing.
   (B)   Staff report. At least seven days prior to the hearing, the city shall
provide to the hearings body, and make available to the public for inspection
or purchase, a report detailing the nature of the request and the applicable
criteria of the chapter.
   (C)   Pre-hearing statement. At the commencement of the hearing, a statement
shall be made by the hearings body or staff to those in attendance that:
      (1)   Lists the applicable substantive criteria;
      (2)   States that testimony and evidence must be directed toward the
criteria described in division (C)(1) above or other criteria in this chapter
the party believes to apply to the subject request; and
      (3)   States that failure to raise an issue, accompanied by statements or
evidence sufficient to afford the hearings body and the parties an opportunity
to respond to the issue, precludes appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals on
that issue.
   (D)   Order of presentation of testimony. Unless otherwise provided for by
the hearings body, the order of presentation of testimony shall be as follows:
      (1)   Staff report;
      (2)   Presentation by the applicant or, in the case of an appeal of a
prior decision, the appellant;
      (3)   Testimony by opponents or, in the case of an appeal, the
respondent; and
      (4)   Applicant’s or, in the case of an appeal, appellant’s rebuttal
arguments.
   (E)   Continuances. The hearings body may continue any hearing as deemed
necessary to receive additional arguments or testimony, or for further
consideration of any evidence or testimony. A continuance may be provided for
by the hearing body on its own motion or may be requested by a party. Any
continuance or extension of the record requested by an applicant shall suspend
the time limit specified in division (I) below. If the hearings body grants a
continuance, the hearing shall be continued to a date, time, and place certain
at least seven days from the date of the initial evidentiary hearing. An
opportunity shall be provided at the continued hearing for persons to present
and rebut new evidence and testimony. If new written evidence is presented at
the continued hearing, any person may request, prior to the conclusion of the
continued hearing, that the record be left open for at least seven days to
submit additional written evidence or testimony for the purpose of responding
to the new written evidence. No additional notice need be given of the
continued hearing.
   (F)   Holding open the hearing record. Prior to the conclusion of the
initial evidentiary hearing, any participant may request an opportunity to
present additional evidence or testimony regarding the application.
      (1)   The hearings body shall grant such a request by continuing the
hearing pursuant to division (E) above or leaving the record open for
additional written evidence or testimony. If the record is left open for
additional written evidence of testimony, the record shall be left open for at
least seven days.
      (2)   Any participant may file a written request with the city for an
opportunity to respond to new evidence or testimony submitted during the period
the record was left open. If such a request is filed, the hearings body shall
reopen the record pursuant to division (G) below.
   (G)   Reopening the hearing record. The hearings body may, on its own
motion, or upon request of a party, publish new notices and reopen the record
of any hearing previously concluded. When a hearing record is reopened to admit
new evidence or testimony, any person may raise new issues which relate to the
new evidence, testimony, or criteria for decision making which apply to the
subject application or appeal.
   (H)   Continuing a hearing. The hearings body may continue a hearing in
order to obtain additional information or to serve further notice upon other
property owners or persons it decides may be interested in the proposal being
considered. Upon continuing, the time and date when the hearing is to be
resumed shall be announced at the meeting, and no additional notice shall be
necessary.
   (I)   Time limitations per applicable state statute. Any continuance or
extension of the record shall be subject to the time limitations of the
applicable state statute unless the continuance or extension is requested by,
or agreed to by, the applicant.
   (J)   Final arguments. Unless waived by the applicant, the hearings body
shall allow the applicant at least seven days after the record is closed to all
other parties to submit final written arguments in support of the application.
The applicants final submittal shall be considered part of the record, but
shall not include any new evidence. For purposes of this section:
      (1)   ARGUMENT means assertions and analysis regarding the satisfaction
or violation of legal standards or policy believed relevant by the proponent to
a decision. ARGUMENT does not include facts.
      (2)   EVIDENCE means facts, documents, data, or other information offered
to demonstrate compliance or noncompliance with the standards believed by the
proponent to be relevant to a decision by the hearings body.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.208 APPEALS.
   The hearings body may retain authority to dismiss an appeal for failure to
follow the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Appeals of a decision of the City Planner. Where it is alleged that
there is an error in any procedure or decision made by the City Planner, an
appeal may be made therefrom to the Planning Commission on a form prescribed by
the city. An applicant’s appeal of a City Planner action shall be filed within
15 days of the effective date of the decision. In the event that the final day
for the filing of an appeal falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
period for the filing of an appeal shall be extended through the next working
day. An appeal of a City Planner decision shall be filed with the city and
shall be accompanied by a written statement of the grounds for the appeal and
any required filing fee and deposit for costs. Upon receipt of an appeal, the
city shall schedule a public hearing before the Planning Commission. Public
notice of the hearing shall be in accordance with §
152.206 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Appeals of a decision of the Planning Commission. Where it is alleged
that there is an error in any procedure or decision made by the Commission, an
appeal therefrom may be made to the City Council. Such an appeal shall be filed
with the city within 15 days of the effective date of the subject decision of
the Commission. In the event that the subject decision falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the period for the filing of an appeal shall be
extended through the next working day. An appeal of a Commission decision
subject to review by the City Council pursuant to this section shall be filed
on a form prescribed by the city and shall be accompanied by any required
filing fee and deposit for costs. When an appeal is filed, within ten days of
such filing, the City Planner shall provide to the City Council the record of
the proceedings and decision of the Commission. The City Council shall hold a
public hearing on the appeal. Public notice of the appeal shall be in
accordance with §
152.206(B) of this subchapter.
   (C)   City Council action.
      (1)   The Council may affirm, modify, or reverse all or part of the
action of the Commission or may remand the matter for additional review or
information.
      (2)   The City Council may, on its own motion, review any decision of the
City Planner or the Planning Commission pursuant to the review procedures. Such
motion shall be made within 14 days of the effective date of the decision to be
reviewed.
      (3)   The city shall provide notice of a decision to any party
participating in a hearing.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.209 ACTION FEES.
   (A)   The applicant or appellant in any actions subject to §
152.204(A), (B), or (C) of this subchapter within the jurisdiction of the city
is responsible for all costs incurred by the city in processing and preparing
the action. Deposits and fees are required to be paid to the city upon filing
of an application. The amounts of deposits and fees shall be established by
resolution of the City Council and may be amended from time to time by
resolution. Deposits are required for costs particular to the application.
   (B)   These costs include, but are not limited to, costs incurred by the
city for staff reports, professional services, public notices, postage, and
copies. Any deposit funds remaining at the completion of the action shall be
refunded to the applicant or appellant pursuant to §
152.210 of this subchapter. Fees are required for overhead costs not particular
to the application and are not refundable.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.210 LAND USE ACTION COSTS.
   Upon expiration of the appeal period for a land use action initiated
pursuant to this chapter, the city shall provide the applicant or appellant
with a statement showing the total cost of the action. This statement shall be
accompanied by a refund of the balance of any remaining deposit funds after all
costs incurred by the city in processing the application have been withheld as
reimbursement to the city.
   (A)   In the event a land use action requires a protracted evaluation,
additional deposits may be required to cover expenses incurred by the city.
Additional deposits under this section shall be paid to the city prior to final
action being taken by the hearings body.
   (B)   In the event the applicant or appellant withdraws a request for a land
use action or appeal, all costs incurred by the city for the action from the
date of application to the date of withdrawal shall be withheld from the
deposit and the balance refunded to the applicant.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section and §
152.209 of this subchapter, the City Council may waive any or all portions of
land use application costs.
   (D)   An application for a land use action or appeal shall be considered
voluntarily withdrawn if the applicant or appellant fails to provide required
additional deposit amounts within 30 days of receiving notice to do so or by
the 120-day limit for the city to take final action once the application is
deemed complete, whichever occurs sooner.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 154, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 173, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 174, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 256, passed
4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES
§ 152.225 PURPOSE.
   Some areas of the city are located on steep slopes, have erosion or
landslide potential, or are otherwise of concern. The purpose of this section
is to minimize hazards and threats to life and property by regulating building,
grading, land clearing, and other human activities in areas identified with
landslide topography, steep slopes, areas subject to erosion, high groundwater
table, and other hazards. It is also the intent of this subchapter to protect
life and property by reducing building density in these areas, by requiring
special construction techniques, and by requiring the study of such areas by a
state-registered engineering geologist prior to any activity.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.226 WEAK FOUNDATION SOILS.
   (A)   Many areas within the city are located on areas described by the soil
conservation service as containing “weak foundation soils” or other soils
limitations.
   (B)   Construction techniques, through the Building Code, require the effect
of weak foundation soils or other soil limitations to be considered in the
construction process.
   (C)   Construction of structures on areas of weak foundation soils or other
soils limitations is not deemed to pose a significant hazard to life or
property outside the property boundaries. The manner provided in the Building
Code to address problems arising from weak foundation soils or other soils
limitations is deemed to be an adequate means of protection of life and
property. This statement serves as a warning for development on weak foundation
soils.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.227 DISCHARGE OF SEDIMENT OR WATER.
   (A)   Property owners or other persons in charge of property shall not
cause, or permit to be caused, the discharge of sediment or water onto
adjoining property or the public right-of-way unless the permit application is
accompanied by a drainage plan accepted by the affected property owners, or the
applicant has demonstrated compliance with state laws regarding discharge of
sediment or water.
   (B)   The following measures are suggested as possible means to prevent such
discharges:
      (1)   Minimal removal of vegetative cover, particularly trees;
      (2)   Temporary measures for controlling run-off, such as berms or
holding ponds;
      (3)   The planting of vegetative cover as soon as possible after each
phase of construction, including excavation, grading, and/or land clearing; and
      (4)   Design of the site to avoid steep areas or other hazards.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.228 AFFECTED AREAS.
   The following areas and activities shall be subject to the requirements of
this subchapter:
   (A)   Areas identified as being geologically hazardous by Environmental
Geology of Lincoln County, Oregon, 1973, Oregon Department of Geology and
Mineral Industries, or Environmental Hazard Inventory, Coastal Lincoln County
Oregon, RNKR Associates, 1978. These documents are referenced as part of the
Comprehensive Plan and are available in the office of the City Recorder;
   (B)   Areas identified by the Natural Resource Conservation Service as
having high groundwater;
   (C)   Areas containing slopes in excess of 20%. (Areas generally containing
significant slopes are identified on the attached map. Sites in this area are
“affected” unless shown otherwise per § 152.233 of this subchapter); and
   (D)   Areas fronting the ocean or coastal bluff that are seaward from the
line set by the coastal setback requirements of §
152.234 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.229 GEOLOGIC PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A geologic permit shall be obtained for any development within the affected
areas. For subsequent building permits, such as for decks or room additions,
the original geologic permit is acceptable, if it is no older than five years
and the report author evaluates the new building permit plans and sends a
letter to the city that bears the stamp of the licensed geologist or
engineering geologist, acknowledging that the submitted plans have been
reviewed and that such building activity can be safely accomplished. In areas
having slopes greater than 20%, a geologic permit shall also be obtained before
removing vegetation from or grading an area in excess of 20,000 square feet or
adding or removing 90 cubic yards of earth in an area of 5,000 square feet.
Minimal accessory uses that do not require a building permit (playground
equipment, small gazebo, and the like) are excluded from the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.230 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   In order to obtain a geologic permit, the applicant shall submit, along with
the appropriate fee, a geologic hazard report which shall be prepared by a
registered geologist or a certified engineering geologist recognized by the
state and dated no more than one year prior to the application date. The report
shall explain fully the activity for which the permit is being sought. If the
purpose of the geologic hazard report is for a building permit, then the report
shall accompany and address final building plans. Any activities not
specifically covered in the report will not be covered by the permit. The
report shall also identify the nature, extent, and location of all geologic
hazards associated with the proposed site and activity. Finally, the report
shall detail exact measures to be taken so as to avoid the occurrence of
landslides, erosion, sloughing, puddling, or other identified geologic hazards
on the subject and surrounding property or any prohibited activity identified
above. For uses requiring removal of vegetation or excavation, plans for the
legal disposal of such materials shall be submitted.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.231 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR GEOLOGIC HAZARD REPORTS.
   Geologic hazard reports provided pursuant to this subchapter shall conform
to the following requirements from the Guidelines for Preparing Engineering
Geologic Reports in Oregon. The geologist’s report shall have reviewed these
specific requirements and the applicant shall address the applicable conditions
in the proposal. Sections that are not applicable shall be identified as not
applicable.
   (A)   General information.
      (1)   Client or party that commissioned the report;
      (2)   Name(s) of geologist(s) who did the mapping and other investigation
on which the report is based, and dates when the work was done;
      (3)   Location and size of area, and its general setting with respect to
major or regional geographic and geologic features, including a statement of
existing surrounding and on-site land uses and public facilities, utilities,
and easements. The location shall be identified by the tax map, tax lot number,
and the street address to eliminate confusion in identifying the property;
      (4)   Purpose and scope of the report and geologic investigation,
including the proposed use of the site. Also, identify the level of the study,
such as, feasibility, preliminary, final, and the like;
      (5)   Topography and drainage within or affecting the area;
      (6)   General nature, distribution, and abundance of exposures of earth
materials within the area;
      (7)   Nature and source of available subsurface information and geologic
reports or maps. Suitable explanations of the available data should provide a
technical reviewer with the means of evaluating the reliability. Reference to
cited works or field observations should be made, to substantiate opinions and
conclusions;
      (8)   Disclosure of known or suspected geologic hazards affecting the
area, including a statement regarding past performance of existing facilities
(such as, buildings or utilities) in the immediate vicinity;
      (9)   Locations of test holes and excavations (drill holes, test pits,
and trenches) shown on maps and sections described in the text of the report.
The actual data, or processed data upon which interpretations are based, should
be included in the report to permit technical reviewers to make their own
assessments regarding reliability and interpretation;
      (10)   All field and laboratory testing procedures (by ASTM designation,
if appropriate) and test results; and
      (11)   The signature and seal of the certified engineering geologist who
prepared the report.
   (B)   Geologic mapping and investigation.
      (1)   Geologic mapping of the area should be done at a scale which shows
sufficient detail to adequately define the geologic conditions present.
         (a)   For many purposes, available published geologic maps are
unsuitable to provide a basis for understanding the site conditions, so
independent geologic mapping is needed.
         (b)   If available published geologic maps are used to portray site
conditions, they must be updated to reflect geologic or topographic changes
which have occurred since map publication.
         (c)   It may be necessary for the geologist to extend mapping into
adjacent areas to adequately define significant geologic conditions.
      (2)   Mapping should be done on a suitable topographic base or aerial
photograph, at an appropriate scale with satisfactory horizontal and vertical
control. The date and source of the base should be included on each map or
photo.
      (3)   The geologist doing the investigation and preparing the map should
report the nature of bedrock and surficial materials, the structural features
and relationships, and the three-dimensional distribution of earth materials
exposed and inferred within the area. A clear distinction should be made
between observed and inferred features and relationship.
      (4)   The report should include one or more appropriately positioned and
scaled cross-sections to show subsurface relationships that cannot be
adequately described in words alone. Fence or block diagrams may also be
appropriate.
   (C)   Geologic descriptions.
      (1)   The report should contain brief but complete descriptions of all
natural materials and structural features recognized or inferred within the
subject area. Where interpretations are added to the recording of direct
observations, the basis for such interpretations should be clearly stated.
Describe all field mapping and exploration procedures (surface geologic
reconnaissance, drilling, trenching, geophysical survey, and the like).
      (2)   The following checklist may be useful as a general, though not
necessarily complete, guide for descriptions:
         (a)   Bedrock.
            1.   Identification of rock types;
            2.   Relative and absolute age and, where possible, correlation
with named formations and other stratigraphic units;
            3.   Surface and subsurface expression, areal distribution, and
thickness;
            4.   Pertinent physical characteristics (such as, color, grain
size, nature of stratification, strength, and variability);
            5.   Distribution and extent of zones of weathering; significant
differences between fresh and weathered rock; and
            6.   Special engineering geologic characteristics or concerns (such
as, factors affecting proposed grading, construction, and land use).
         (b)   Structural features: stratification, faults, discontinuities,
foliation, schistosity, and folds.
            1.   Occurrence, distribution, dimensions, orientation, and
variability; both within and projecting into the area;
            2.   Relative ages, where pertinent;
            3.   Special features of faults (such as, topographic expression,
zones of gouge and breccia, nature of offsets, age of movements, youngest
faulted unit, and oldest unfaulted unit); and
            4.   Other significant structural characteristics or concerns.
         (c)   Surficial deposits: alluvial, colluvial, eolian, glacial,
lacustrine, marine, residual, mass movement, volcanic (such as, cinders and
ash), and fill.
            1.   Identification of material, grain size, relative age, and
degree of activity of originating process;
            2.   Distribution, dimensional characteristics, variations in
thickness, degree of soil development, and surface expression;
            3.   Pertinent physical and engineering characteristics (such as,
color, grain size, lithology, compactness, cementation, strength, thickness,
and variability);
            4.   Special physical or chemical features (such as, indications of
volume change or instability, such as expansive clays or peat); and
            5.   Other significant engineering geologic characteristics or
concerns.
         (d)   Surface and shallow subsurface hydrologic conditions, including
groundwater, springs, and streams and their possible effect on site. Indicate
how conditions may be affected by variations in precipitation, temperature, and
the like:
            1.   Distribution, occurrence, and variations (such as, drainage
courses, ponds, swamps, springs, seeps, and aquifers);
            2.   Identification and characterization of aquifers; depth to
groundwater and seasonal fluctuations, flow direction, gradient, recharge, and
discharge areas;
            3.   Relationships to topographic and geologic features;
            4.   Evidence for earlier occurrence of water at localities now dry
(such as, vegetation, mineral deposits, and historic records); and
            5.   Other significant engineering geologic characteristics or
concerns, such as fluctuating water table and the effects of proposed
modifications on future hydrologic processes.
         (e)   Seismic considerations.
            1.   Description of the seismotectonic setting of the area
(including size, frequency, and location of historic earthquakes), current
seismic zoning, and expected seismic risk;
            2.   Potential for area to be affected by surface rupture
(including sense and amount of displacement, and width of surface deformation
zone);
            3.   Probable response of site to likely earthquakes (estimated
ground motion);
            4.   Potential for area to be affected by earthquake-induced
landslides or liquefaction; and
            5.   Potential for area to be affected by regional tectonic
deformation (subsidence or uplift).
   (D)   Assessment of geologic factors.
      (1)   Assessment of existing geologic conditions and processes with
respect to intended use of the site constitutes the principal contribution of
the report. It involves the effects of the geologic features upon the proposed
grading, construction, and land use; and the effects of these proposed
modifications upon future geologic conditions and processes in the area.
      (2)   The following checklist includes topics that ordinarily should be
considered in discussions, conclusions, and recommendations in geologic
reports:
         (a)   General suitability of proposed land use to geologic conditions.
            1.   Areas to be avoided, if any, and mitigation alternatives;
            2.   Topography and slope;
            3.   Stability of geologic units;
            4.   Flood and tidal inundation, erosion, and deposition;
            5.   Problems caused by geologic features or conditions in adjacent
properties;
            6.   Problems related to coastal erosion; and
            7.   Other general problems.
         (b)   Identification and extent. Identification and extent of known or
probable geologic conditions which may result in risk to the proposed land use
(such as, flood inundation, shallow groundwater, storm surge, surface and
groundwater pollution, snow avalanche, landslide, debris flow, rock fall,
expansive soil, collapsible soil, subsidence, erosion, deposition, earthquake
shaking, fault rupture, tectonic deformation, liquefaction, seiche, tsunami,
and volcanic eruption).
         (c)   Recommendations for site grading.
            1.   Prediction of what materials and structural features will be
encountered in proposed cuts;
            2.   Prediction of stability based on geologic factors; recommended
avoidance or mitigation alternatives to cope with existing or potential
landslide masses;
            3.   Excavation considerations (hard or massive rock and
groundwater flows);
            4.   General considerations of proposed fill masses in canyons or
on hillsides;
            5.   Suitability of on-site material for use as compacted fill;
            6.   Recommendations for positioning fill masses, provision for
subdrainage, buttressing, and the need for erosion protection on fill slopes;
and
            7.   Other recommendations required by the proposed land use, such
as the angle of cut slopes, position of drainage terraces, need for rock-fall,
and/or erosion protection on cut slopes.
         (d)   Drainage considerations.
            1.   Protection from inundation or wave erosion along shorelines;
            2.   Soil permeability and suitability for septic systems; and
            3.   Protection from sheet flood or gully erosion, and debris flows
or mud flows.
         (e)   Limitations of study and recommendations for additional
investigations. Considering the scope of work and intended use of the site,
provide a statement of the limitations of the study and the need for additional
studies outside the stated scope of work.
            1.   Borings, test pits, and/or trenches needed for additional
geologic information;
            2.   Percolation tests needed for design;
            3.   Program of subsurface exploration and testing that is most
likely to provide data needed by the soils or civil engineer; and
            4.   Program for long-term monitoring of the site to evaluate
geologic conditions (survey hubs, inclinometers, extensometers, and the like).
   (E)   Conclusions and recommendations. The reports shall provide a concise
set of conclusions and recommendations, including specifics regarding the
acceptable locations of structures (addressing setbacks where appropriate) and
the acceptable nature and density of development.
   (F)   Inspection and monitoring. Reports shall specify inspections and/or
monitoring required to verify that the development and construction on the site
have been completed according to the recommendations contained in the report.
Inspection records and/or “as built” certifications shall be provided for all
geologic hazard reports.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.232 DETERMINATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Geologic hazard reports submitted for review in accordance with §§
152.200 through
152.210 of this chapter, shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, which
shall determine whether the report addresses the provisions of this subchapter
as it reviews the entire application. Land use applications before the Planning
Commission shall not be approved until such a determination has been made.
Regardless of approval by the city, liability remains with the report signator
and the applicant, who must conform with the report’s requirements. Signed
acceptance of this liability shall accompany the permit application.
   (B)   In determining compliance, the Planning Commission shall evaluate:
      (1)   If the report appears to adequately recognize the causes, extent,
and potential of the hazards and conforms substantively with the requirements
found in §
152.231 of this subchapter;
      (2)   If the recommendations to overcome the recognized hazards are set
out clearly and specifically and are included in the engineered plans of the
development;
      (3)   If the geologic hazard report indicates that possible future danger
may exist from a hazard, the applicant or property owner shall complete and
sign the declaration of covenants and conditions of responsibility and
indemnity (the declaration) provided by the city. Prior to issuance of a
building permit, the applicant or property owner shall execute and record the
declaration in the deed records of the county;
      (4)   If the geologic hazard report and the associated plans contain the
signature and professional stamp of a licensed geologist or engineering
geologist qualified to certify such reports and plans; and
      (5)   Authorization of a geologic hazards permit shall be void after five
years unless substantial construction pursuant thereto has taken place.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.233 PROVISIONS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   There may be instances in which specific sites within the area mapped “as
having significant slopes” may have topography not exceeding the 20% criterion.
Property owners who can demonstrate, through a survey completed within a
calendar year of the date of application by a surveyor registered in the state,
that their property, or the specific site to be developed, has slopes of less
than 20%, shall be exempt from any requirements pertaining to that specific
characteristic.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.234 CALCULATION OF COASTAL SETBACKS.
   Two areas shall be considered in establishing coastal setback requirements
and may simultaneously apply to a given piece of property.
   (A)   Areas of coastal erosion. 
      (1)   The following categories of coastal erosion are recognized (coastal
erosion rates and the methodology used are outlined in the document entitled
Geologic Hazards Associated with Lincoln County Coastal Shoreline, prepared by
CH2M Hill, Inc., and RNKR Associates, 1977):
 
Less than 2.8 inches/year  Slight
2.8 to 11.3 inches/year    Moderate
More that 11.3 inches/year Severe
 
      (2)   The following coastal setbacks are required for the categories
listed above in order to limit the need for structural solutions to coastal
erosion. All setbacks shall be measured from the mean higher high water line
and/or the base of the bank, whichever requires the greater setback.
 
Slight erosion   1 foot of setback for each 1 foot of bank height
Moderate erosion 2.15 feet of setback for each 1 foot of bank height
Severe erosion   2.75 feet of setback for each 1 foot of bank height
 
   Example of How to Determine Geologic Setback
   (B)   Areas of visual concern. This is an area 25 feet landward from the top
of a coastal bluff measured on the horizontal, where the top of bluff is the
uppermost break in slope (see diagram in division (A) above). Where there is no
coastal bluff or no clear break in slope, for example on a smoothly sloping
lot, the area of visual concern is an area 25 feet landward (measured on the
horizontal) from the line of mean higher high water or the line of non-aquatic
vegetation, whichever is the furthest landward.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010)
§ 152.235 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES IN COASTAL SETBACKS.
   (A)   (1)   In the areas of coastal erosion, no excavating, filling, or
placement of retaining walls, deck posts, or other permanent structures is
allowed, unless based on a geological hazard report approved by the Commission.
      (2)   Vegetation removal is also prohibited except as allowed in division
(A)(2) below with prompt replacement with plants that will stabilize the
ground. In this area, such vegetation removal must be in accordance with any
required geological hazard report and with a landscaping plan adequately
addressing ground stabilization.
      (3)   In the areas of visual concern, no grading, excavating, or filling
that changes the profile of the top of the bluff or the slope seaward from its
top; vegetation removal; or placement of a building is allowed except for:
         (a)   Minor pruning to maintain views;
         (b)   Removal of brush and trees smaller than six inches in diameter
measured four feet above ground in preparation for prompt landscape replanting
in the area landward from the top of the bluff;
         (c)   Removal of vegetation within ten feet of a building allowed per
division (A)(1) above;
         (d)   Placement of benches, tables, and chairs; and
         (e)   Placement of a single gazebo, provided such a structure is less
than 100 square feet in size.
   (B)   If a geological hazard report is required per division (A)(1) above,
any vegetation removal or gazebo placement must comply with this section and
recommendations of the geological hazard report.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 85, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 172, passed 10-7-
1991; Ord. 239, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-
4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
LAND DIVISION
§ 152.250 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   As authorized by law, including O.R.S. Chapter 92, the following
requirements and standards relating to the division of land apply to all land
within the city.
      (2)   This subchapter is necessary for the protection of the health,
safety, and welfare of the city’s citizens, and is designed to promote
coordinated and appropriate development of land and to carry out the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   These regulations have the following objectives:
      (1)   To allow for the proper location of utilities;
      (2)   To specify the width, location, and improvement of streets;
      (3)   To provide for adequate sewage disposal facilities;
      (4)   To provide for adequate water supplies;
      (5)   To provide for adequate drainage facilities;
      (6)   To reduce danger from geologic hazards, floods, fire, and
pollution; and
      (7)   To provide for adequate open space.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.251 EXCEPTIONS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
152.250 through
152.261 of this subchapter shall be applicable to §
152.042 of this chapter, unless expressly contrary to a specific provision of §
152.042 of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.252 APPROVAL OF PARTITIONS.
   (A)   A partition of land shall not be valid until it has been approved and
recorded as provided for in this subchapter. No person shall convey any
interest in a parcel in any partition, or replat of a partition, until the plat
of the partition has been recorded as provided for in this chapter. A person
may negotiate to sell any parcel in a partition or replat of a partition upon
approval of the tentative plan of the partition.
   (B)   A person may negotiate to sell any parcel in a partition prior to the
approval of the tentative plan for such partition, however, no person may sell
any parcel in a partition prior to tentative approval.
   (C)   No building permits shall be approved for any parcel in a partition
until the partition has been recorded.
   (D)   Partitions shall not be approved that will create a lot smaller than
the minimum lot dimensions for the zone in which the partition occurs. If a
road divides a parcel, the land on each side of the road shall be considered
separately for purposes of calculating minimum lot sizes.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.253 APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded or have
any validity unless and until it has the approval of the city, as provided for
in this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall negotiate to sell any lot in a subdivision until a
tentative plan of that subdivision has been approved, however, no person shall
sell any lot in the subdivision prior to final subdivision approval.
   (C)   No person shall dispose of, transfer, or sell any lot in any
subdivision until final approval is obtained and the plat of that subdivision
recorded.
   (D)   No person shall accomplish a property line adjustment without having
first secured the approval of the city as provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   Approval of street or road creations:
      (1)   No person shall create a street or road for the purpose of
partitioning an area or tract of land without the approval of the city as
provided for in this chapter.
      (2)   No instrument dedicating land to public use shall have any validity
unless such instrument bears the approval of the city as accepting such
dedication.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.254 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DEVELOPMENT DESIGN.
   The following are the minimum requirements and standards to which
subdivisions and partitions must conform.
   (A)   Conformity to the Comprehensive Plan. All subdivisions and partitions
shall conform to applicable portions of §§
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter, and the purposes of the goals and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Relation to adjoining street system. If development of a subdivision
or partition would otherwise impede or interfere with access to or through
existing streets and rights-of-way, a subdivision or partition shall provide
for the continuation of said streets and rights-of-way. If physical conditions
make such continuation impractical, exceptions may be made.
      (1)   If the city finds that the off-site effects of a subdivision
warrant the necessity of improved streets or rights-of-way, the city may
require that the subdivision or partition provide for them. If no such off-site
effects are found, the city may require that the lay-out of the subdivision or
partition take into account the future development of streets and rights-of-way
with regard to setback, access, parks, and open spaces, as well as other
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   When a tract is divided into lots or parcels of a size which could
allow for further redivision under current zoning, the city may require an
arrangements of lots and streets such as to permit a later redivision in
conformance with the street requirements and other requirements contained in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Access.
      (1)   A subdivision, partition, or replat shall provide each lot or
parcel with not less than 25 feet of frontage on a public or private road or
street, except that where necessitated by adverse sight distances or other
factors, greater frontage may be required.
      (2)   A subdivision or partition shall consider vehicular access to the
parcel of existing or proposed roads that addresses traffic congestion, speed,
stop signs, and turn lanes for the orderly development of traffic accessing the
area.
   (D)   Private streets.
      (1)   No street or road which would serve as a collector from existing
public streets shall be approved as a private street.
      (2)   The establishment of a private street shall not be allowed if it
will deny the public access to public areas such as beaches or parks.
      (3)   No road or street shall be approved as a private road in a case
where such a road or street presently is or will in the future be needed to
provide access to development on adjacent properties or to serve as a collector
for other subdivisions or partitions in the area.
      (4)   All private streets or roads established for the purpose of
subdividing, partitioning, or replatting land shall be surveyed and monumented.
      (5)   Yard setbacks shall be determined from the road right-of-way or
access easement line in instances where private roads are considered.
      (6)   Private road rights-of-way may be approved of less than 50 feet in
width but in no instance shall the road right-of-way be less than 30 feet,
except that a private road to two lots may be 20 feet in width. In instances
where the road access to more than three lots is less than 50 feet in width,
utility/slope easements may be required.
      (7)   Private road standards shall be the same as those for public
streets. No more than three lots shall be exempt from standards for
improvements.
   (E)   Public streets.
      (1)   Right-of-way and improvement requirements for public streets shall
conform to the widths as specified in §§
152.260 and
152.261 of this subchapter.
      (2)   If topographical requirements necessitate either cuts or fills for
the proper grading of roads, additional right-of-way or slope easements shall
be provided.
      (3)   The layout of streets shall give suitable recognition to
surrounding topographical conditions in accordance with the purpose of this
chapter.
      (4)   Street improvements, street grades, and center line radii on curves
shall meet the minimum requirements as specified in §§
152.260 and
152.251 of this subchapter.
      (5)   The city shall only be responsible for maintenance of a public
street when the street is accepted by the City Council through dedication. A
street that is accepted by the City Council through dedication shall be
referred to as a “city street.”
   (F)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect one another at an angle as near to a right
angle as is practical considering the topography of the area and previous
adjacent layout.
      (2)   Intersections shall be designed so that no danger to the traveling
public is created as a result of staggered intersections.
   (G)   Cul-de-sacs and turnarounds.
      (1)   Dead-end (cul-de-sac) streets in partitions and subdivisions shall
terminate in a turnaround with a minimum property line radius of 40 feet, or
other type of turnaround approved by the city.
      (2)   Approved turnarounds shall be provided on all dead-end streets.
      (3)   No dead-end street may be established without Fire Marshal
approval.
   (H)   Easements. Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than
six feet in width may be required on each side of the rear line or side line
for necessary utility lines, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas,
and water. Easements of the same or greater widths may be required along
boundary lines or across lots or parcels where necessary for the extension of
utility lines, waterways, and walkways, and to provide necessary drainageways
or channels.
   (I)   Blocks. Normally, no block shall be longer than 600 feet between
street lines. Approval for longer blocks can be given where topographical
conditions constrain development.
   (J)   Public accessways. When necessary for public convenience and safety,
the Planning Commission may require the developer to dedicate to the public
reasonable accessways to connect to cul-de-sacs, pass through oddly shaped
blocks, provide for networks of public paths according to adopted plans, or to
provide access to schools, parks, beaches, or other public areas, or for other
such design and location as reasonably required to facilitate public use. A
subdivision, partition, or replat shall maintain existing public access points
to shorelands as required by §
152.039(E)(4) of this chapter. Such access points shall be ascertained as
follows:
      (1)   By examination of a standard title report;
      (2)   By consulting city inventory of such points; or
      (3)   Through presentation of other lawful information.
   (K)   Lots and parcels.
      (1)   Every lot/parcel shall abut a public street or private road. A flag
lot with the staff that does not comply with the required minimum lot widths
for the zone it is located in is permitted, but the staff measurement shall not
be less than 25 feet minimum frontage.
      (2)   Each side line shall be as close to perpendicular to the adjacent
street/road or radial to a curved street/road as possible.
      (3)   Lots/parcels with double frontage shall not be permitted unless, in
the opinion of the city, the physical characteristics of the land prohibit any
other plan for a subdivision.
      (4)   The staff portion of a flag lot shall not be used in computing lot
size for zoning and building purposes.
   (L)   Utility easements.
      (1)   Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than ten feet
in width may be required on side or rear lines if determined to be necessary
for utility lines, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, and water.
      (2)   Easements of the same or greater widths may be required along
boundary lines or across lots where necessary for the extension of utility
lines, waterways, and walkways, and to provide necessary drainageways or
channels.
   (M)   Water. No partition or subdivision shall receive final approval unless
the city has received and accepted:
      (1)   A certification by the Public Works Director, or such other city
official as the city may designate, that water will be available to the
boundary line of each, and every lot or parcel depicted in the proposed
subdivision or partition; or
      (2)   A performance agreement, bond, contract, or other assurance that a
water supply system will be installed to the boundary line of each and every
lot or parcel depicted in the proposed subdivision or partition.
   (N)   Sewer. No partition or subdivision shall receive final approval unless
the city has received and accepted:
      (1)   A certification by the Public Works Director, or other officials as
the city may designate, that sewer will be available to the boundary line of
each and every lot or parcel depicted in the proposed subdivision or partition;
or
      (2)   A performance agreement, bond, contract, or other assurance that
sewage disposal lines will be installed by or on behalf of the developer to the
boundary line of each and every lot or parcel depicted in the proposed
subdivision or partition.
   (O)   Surface drainage and storm sewer.
      (1)   Drainage facilities shall be provided within subdivisions and
partitions, and to connect the subdivision or partition drainage to
drainageways or storm sewer outside the subdivision or partition. The
connection to the city system shall be engineered using standard practices and
shall be approved by the city.
      (2)   Design of drainage within subdivisions and partitions shall
consider the capacity and grade necessary to maintain unrestricted flow from
areas draining through the development, as well as to allow extension of the
system to serve those areas.
   (P)   Phase development. A plat may be filed on a portion or phase of an
approved tentative plan. Each phase of a subdivision must be able to qualify
for approval independent of the balance of the approved tentative plan.
   (Q)   Geologic hazards. All land divisions shall comply with the procedures
and standards set forth in §§
152.225 through
152.235 of this chapter, where applicable.
   (R)   Parks and open spaces. Excluding streets and parking, at least 35% of
the land will be dedicated or reserved for outdoor recreation, park, or natural
land, for use by the residents of the subdivision.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.255 TRANSPORTATION IMPACT STUDY (TIS).
   The purpose of this section is to implement § 660-012-0045(2)(b) and (e) of
the State Transportation Planning Rule that requires the city to adopt
standards to protect the future operations of roadways and transit corridors
and a process to apply conditions to development proposals in order to protect
and minimize adverse impacts to transportation facilities. This section
establishes when a TIS must be submitted with a land use application in order
to determine whether conditions are needed to minimize impacts to and protect
transportation facilities.
   (A)   Applicability; TIS letter. A TIS letter shall be required to be
submitted with a land use application if the proposal is expected to generate
ten to 30 peak hour trips or 100 to 300 daily trips.
   (B)   Applicability; TIS report. A TIS report shall be required to be
submitted with a land use application if the proposal is expected to involve
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The proposed development would generate more than 30 peak hour
trips or more than 300 daily trips;
      (2)   The proposal is immediately adjacent to an intersection that is
functioning at a poor level of service, as determined by the city;
      (3)   An increase in use of any direct property approach road to Highway
101 by ten vehicles or more per day that exceed 20,000 pounds gross vehicle
weight;
      (4)   A new direct approach to Highway 101 is proposed;
      (5)   A proposed development or land use action that the road authority
states may contribute to operational or safety concerns on its facility(ies);
and
      (6)   An amendment to the Comprehensive Plan or zoning map is proposed.
   (C)   Preparation.
      (1)   The TIS letter or TIS report shall be prepared by a state
registered professional engineer qualified to perform traffic engineering
analysis and will be paid for by the applicant.
      (2)   The TIS letter or report shall include trip generation estimates
that are based on the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) trip
generation manual.
   (D)   Determination. Consistent with the city’s traffic impact study (TIS)
guidelines, the city will determine the project study area, intersections for
analysis, scenarios to be evaluated, and any other pertinent information
concerning the study that must be addressed in either a TIS letter or a TIS
report.
   (E)   Approval criteria. When a TIS letter or report is required, a proposal
is subject to the following:
      (1)   The TIS addresses the applicable elements identified by the city,
consistent with the traffic impact study guidelines;
      (2)   The TIS demonstrates that adequate transportation facilities exist
to serve the proposed development or, in the case of a TIS report, identifies
mitigation measures that resolve identified traffic safety problems in a manner
that is satisfactory to the city and, when state highway facilities are
affected, to ODOT;
      (3)   For affected non-highway facilities, the TIS report establishes
that mobility standards adopted by the city have been met; and
      (4)   Proposed public improvements are designed and will be constructed
consistent with city street design standards and access standards in the
transportation system plan.
   (F)   Conditions of approval.
      (1)   Where the existing transportation system will be impacted by the
proposed development, dedication of land for streets, transit facilities,
sidewalks, bikeways, paths, or accessways may be required to ensure that the
transportation system is adequate to handle the additional burden caused by the
proposed use.
      (2)   Where the existing transportation system is shown to be impacted by
the proposed use, improvements such as paving, curbing, installation, or
contribution to traffic signals, construction of sidewalks, bikeways,
accessways, paths, or streets that serve the proposed use may be required.
      (3)   Improvements required as a condition of development approval, when
not voluntarily provided by the applicant, shall be roughly proportional to the
impact of the development on transportation facilities. Findings in the
development approval shall indicate how the required improvements directly
relate to and are roughly proportional to the impact of development.
(Ord. 326-20, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 152.256 DEDICATION OF PUBLIC STREETS APPLICATION.
   Any person wishing to create a public road or street which is not a part of
a subdivision shall make written application to the City Council. The
application shall consist of a letter addressed to the Council requesting
acceptance of the dedication; a dedication deed with a proper description of
the proposed dedication signed by all owners of the property being dedicated;
and a map showing the proposed road and property intended to be served by the
road.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.257 REVIEW.
   The City Council shall refer the dedication application to the following:
   (A)   The Public Works Director, or other designated person, who shall check
the proposal for grade and conformance to city road standards;
   (B)   A title insurance company for a standard preliminary title report; and
   (C)   The Planning Commission which shall review the proposal for
compatibility with the city’s Comprehensive Plan, transportation plan, and any
adjacent approved tentative plans, plats, or maps.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.258 APPROVAL.
   The above reports shall be forwarded to the City Council along with the
application for dedication. The dedicator shall furnish a standard title
insurance policy insuring title of the dedicated street to the city. A public
street will not be maintained by the city unless that street is accepted by the
city into the city’s road system.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.259 PROCEDURE FOR ENSURING COMPLETION OF ROADS AND/OR UTILITIES IN
SUBDIVISIONS AND PARTITIONS.
   (A)   The developer’s engineer will prepare cost estimates for completion of
roads and/or utilities. Road cost estimates shall be based upon road standards
as designated herein. All cost estimates shall be stamped by a registered
professional engineer, licensed in the state.
   (B)   All estimates shall be submitted to the Public Works Director; water
and/or sewer cost estimates shall be sent to the Water and Sewer Department for
review and approval.
   (C)   The Public Works Director shall notify the developer as to the amount
of bond or other performance agreement required and as to any changes necessary
for bond acceptance or other performance agreement.
   (D)   The developer shall submit the bond or performance agreement and three
copies thereof written in favor of the city to city hall for approval.
   (E)   Upon completion of construction of roads and utilities, the
applicant’s engineer shall certify that such improvements are built to the
standards approved. This certification of completion shall be submitted prior
to the release of any bond or performance agreement.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.260 STREET WIDTH IN SUBDIVISIONS AND PARTITIONS.
 
Type of Street               Right-of-Way Width (Feet) Surface Widths (Feet) +
Arterials                    80 to 150 ++              40 to 52 ++
Collector streets and all    40 to 50 ++               28 to 38 ++
streets other than arterials
Cul-de-sacs                  40                        28
Circular ends of cul-de-sacs 80 +++                    60 +++
+   Surface width is that measured from face to face of curbs or shoulders
++   The Planning Commission may require a width within the limits shown based
upon adjacent physical conditions, safety of the public, and the traffic needs
of the community
+++   Measured by diameter of circle constituting circular end
 
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.261 STREET IMPROVEMENTS IN SUBDIVISIONS AND PARTITIONS.
   Improvements shall meet the following minimum standards unless increased at
the request of the Planning Commission:
   (A)   All streets shall be rough graded for the full surface width;
   (B)   All streets shall have a minimum of eight inches of base material to a
minimum width of 28 feet;
   (C)   All streets shall have a leveling course of three-fourths inch crushed
rock, two inches deep compacted; and
   (D)   All streets shall be paved with two inches of asphalt concrete to a
minimum of the width required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.262 PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVIDING, PARTITIONING, OR REPLATTING LAND.
   (A)   Pre-application conference. Prior to submitting a tentative plan of a
subdivision, partition, or replat, the applicant should confer with the City
Planner regarding the requisites of the tentative plan application and the
applicable standards and criteria of this chapter.
   (B)   Tentative plan requirements. The submitted tentative plan for a
subdivision, partition, or replat shall contain all of the information listed
on the applicable city application form. If the proposal includes new access
from a state highway, the applicant shall submit documentation that the Oregon
Department of Transportation will be willing to issue the requested road
approach permits.
   (C)   Tentative plan application and review for subdivisions and partitions.
The procedure for application and review of the tentative plan of a
subdivision, and the procedure for application and review of the tentative plan
for a partition shall be as set forth in §
152.204(C) of this chapter.
   (D)   Tentative plan application and review for replats.
      (1)   The procedure for review and approval of the tentative plan shall
be set forth in §
152.204(C).
      (2)   For replats of previously recorded partition plats, the procedure
for review and approval of the tentative plan shall be as set forth in §
152.204(A).
   (E)   Time limit for tentative approval. Approval of a tentative plan in
accordance with this section is valid for a period of three years. A single
time limit extension may be granted by the Planning Commission only if the
development is substantially completed within the three-year time period. A
development is deemed to be substantially completed when utilities, streets,
and drainage are in and stubbed to the lot line.
   (F)   Revision of tentative plan. If an approved tentative plan for a
subdivision is revised in any way, the Planning Commission shall review the
proposed revisions to determine if a new application for tentative approval
will be required. Such review will be limited to those issues impacted by the
revision. If an approved tentative plan is substantially revised, such revision
shall be filed as a new application for tentative plan approval.
   (G)   Certifications required for final approval. Requests for final
approval of a subdivision, partition, or replat shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   A copy of all covenants and restrictions;
      (2)   Copies of all legal documents required for dedication of public
facilities and/or for the creation of a homeowner’s association;
      (3)   The certification, bond, performance agreement, or statement
regarding the installation of water and sewer services;
      (4)   As-built certifications for all required roads and/or utilities,
unless otherwise guaranteed by a bond or performance agreement;
      (5)   A plat and one exact copy meeting the requirements of §
152.263 of this subchapter and the applicable state statute;
      (6)   When access from a state highway is proposed, a copy of the
approach road permit issued by the Oregon Department of Transportation
confirming that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed;
and
      (7)   Such other information as is deemed necessary by the City Planner
or Commission to verify conformance with the conditions of tentative approval.
   (H)   Procedure for final approval of partitions.
      (1)   The procedure for application and review of a request for final
approval of a partition shall be as set forth in §
152.204(A) of this chapter. All such applications shall be accompanied by the
certifications set forth in division (G) above.
      (2)   Upon granting of final approval, the City Planner shall sign the
plat and its exact copy.
      (3)   Upon signing, the City Planner shall deliver the plat and its exact
copy to the County Surveyor who shall follow established procedures for
obtaining recordation of the plat.
   (I)   Procedure for final approval of replats.
      (1)   If the proposed replat involves three lots or less and is for the
purpose of lot boundary changes only, procedure for review of final approval
shall be as set forth in §
152.204(A) of this chapter.
      (2)   If the proposed replat involves four lots or more or includes
changes to street rights-of-way, utilities, or any other features besides
boundary lines, procedures for review of final approval shall be as set forth
in §
152.204(B) of this chapter.
      (3)   Following the signature of the City Planner or Planning Commission
chairperson, the city shall deliver the replat and its exact copy to the County
Surveyor who shall follow established procedures for obtaining recordation of
the plat.
   (J)   Procedure for final approval of subdivisions.
      (1)   (a)   When the City Planner determines that all of the
certifications set forth in division (G) above have been met and that the plat
conforms in all respects to the tentative plan as approved, consideration of
the plat will be placed on the agenda of the next scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission for determination that all requirements have been met.
         (b)   The Commission shall then approve, disapprove for cause, or,
when further information is required, postpone a decision on the plat.
      (2)   Unless appealed, the decision of the Planning Commission shall
become effective 15 days after the decision is rendered. When the approval
becomes effective, the Planning Commission chairperson shall sign the plat and
its exact copy.
      (3)   Following the Planning Commission chairperson’s signature, the city
shall deliver the plat and its exact copy to the County Surveyor. The County
Surveyor shall review the plat for conformance with the requirements of §
152.263 of this subchapter and the provisions of the applicable state statute.
      (4)   Upon approval of the County Surveyor, subdivision plats shall be
circulated for signing to the following officials:
         (a)   The County Treasurer, whose signature shall certify that all
taxes on the property have been paid; and
         (b)   The County Assessor, whose signature shall certify that the plat
is signed by the owner or owners of record.
      (5)   Upon signing by the County Treasurer and County Assessor,
subdivision plats shall be delivered to the County Clerk for recording.
      (6)   The signature of the chairperson on the final subdivision plat
shall be valid for a period of one year. If a plat has not been recorded within
one year of the date of the chairperson’s signature, the final approval of the
plat shall expire, and a new request for final approval shall be required.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.263 PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements of survey plats. The surveys and plats of all
subdivisions, partitions, and replats shall be made by a registered
professional land surveyor and shall conform to the requirements of the
applicable state statute.
   (B)   Encroachment or hiatus. In the event that any encroachment, hiatus, or
property line discrepancy exists on the property to be platted, such
encroachment, hiatus, or discrepancy shall be clearly shown on the plat.
   (C)   Elevation bench marks. Where required, the location, name, and
elevation of any elevation bench marks shall be indicated on the face of the
plat. The name, year, and elevation of the bench mark upon which the elevation
is based shall also be shown.
   (D)   Easements. All recorded and proposed easements will be shown on the
plat, along with the following information:
      (1)   The specific location and size by dimensions or description;
      (2)   If previously recorded, the County Clerk’s recording reference; and
      (3)   The purpose or type of easement and whether it is a public or
private easement and, if private, who benefits from the easement. Any public or
private easement to be created, or any other restriction made, shall be noted
in the declaration. Public easements shall include language in the declaration
which dedicates the easement to the use of the public.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Parcels created in excess of 80 acres need not be shown on a
partition plat.
      (2)   Parcels in excess of ten acres created by partition plat need not
be surveyed or monumented.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.264 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Tentative approval.
      (1)   The procedure for application, review, and tentative approval of
property line adjustments shall be as set forth in §
152.204(A) of this chapter. A property line adjustment shall be tentatively
approved provided that:
         (a)   No additional lots or parcels will be created;
         (b)   The subject lots, parcels, or tracts of land will not be reduced
in size to below the minimum area required by the applicable use zone;
         (c)   The proposed lots, parcels, or tracts of land as adjusted will
comply with any required minimum width requirement as set forth in the
applicable use zone;
         (d)   The proposed property line adjustment will not reduce any yard
or other setback below that required under applicable zoning;
         (e)   The proposed property line adjustment will not reduce the street
or road frontage of the subject lots or parcels to below that required by the
city code;
         (f)   The proposed property line adjustment will not reduce any
setback for an existing on-site sewage disposal system or approved replacement
area below the required minimum; and
         (g)   The proposed property line adjustment will not increase the
degree of non-conformity on vacant lots, parcels, or tracts that do not conform
to lot size, width, or depth requirements, or on developed lots if the increase
in non-conformity results in adjacent property becoming further dividable. The
proposed property line adjustment will not increase the degree of non-
conformity for required yards.
      (2)   Tentative approval of a property line adjustment is valid for a
period of one year. Tentative approval may be extended by the City Planner
prior to expiration of tentative approval. Requests shall specify reasons for
requiring a time extension, along with a specific plan and timeline for
completion. Only one time extension of up to one year may be granted.
   (B)   Final approval.
      (1)   The procedure for application, review, and final approval of
property line adjustments shall be as set forth in §
152.204(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Final approval of a property line adjustment shall be granted upon
submittal of the following:
         (a)   A copy of a filed survey of the property line adjustment in
accordance with the applicable state statute and in substantial conformance
with the tentative approval, except that property line adjustments where all
lots, tracts, or parcels affected are greater than ten acres need not be
surveyed or monumented;
         (b)   Copies of recorded conveyances conforming to the tentatively
approved property line adjustment and containing the names of the parties with
proper acknowledgment; and
         (c)   Such other documentation as may be required by the City Planner
to verify conformance with any requirements or conditions of the tentative
approval.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.265 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS IN SUBDIVISIONS AND PARTITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided for herein, all property line adjustments within
recorded plats shall be accomplished by replatting in accordance with §
152.262 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Property lines within a recorded plat may be adjusted in accordance
with the procedure for property line adjustments rather than by replatting,
when the City Planner determines that:
      (1)   The property line or lines to be adjusted will not result in a
substantial reconfiguration of the affected lots or parcels so as to render
them unsuitable for their previously approved purpose;
      (2)   The property line or lines to be adjusted will not result in an
increase in lots;
      (3)   The property line or lines to be adjusted will not reduce the
common open space or park and recreational acreage; and
      (4)   All of the other requirements for property line adjustments set
forth in §
152.250 of this subchapter will be met.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 57, passed 6-4-1979; Ord. 87, passed 3-15-1982;
Ord. 111, passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 153, passed 7-16-1990; Ord. 155, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 256, passed 4-6-2004; Ord. 287, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punished by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or by a fine of not more
than $500 or both. A violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense for each day the violation continues. The convicted violator shall be
liable for all court costs.
   (B)   A person violating a provision of §
152.040 shall, upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment for not more than
30 days or by a fine of not more than $500 or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
152.090 through
152.103, as now constituted or hereafter amended or revised shall be subject to
the procedures and penalties of §
11.99 of this code of ordinances (enforcement procedures). The city may
confiscate any sign found to be in violation of§§
152.090 through
152.103.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 314, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 320, passed 10-15-
2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Section Code Section
O.R.S. Section                            Code Section
34.010 through 34.100                     50.24
34.010 to 34.100                          50.24
87.152 to 87.212                          92.14
Chapter 92                                11.01,
                                          152.250
100.005 et seq.                           152.003
100.055(11)                               51.06
133.060                                   11.15
135.805 through 135.873                   11.18
153.200                                   11.15
161.005 et seq.                           130.99
161.505                                   11.18
161.566                                   11.18
161.568                                   11.18
164.245 to 164.270                        152.092
Chapter 190                               70.25
Chapter 192                               34.34
192.610 to 192.690                        31.02
192.660                                   31.02
192.660(2)(d)                             31.02
192.660(4)                                36.12
192.660(5)                                36.12
193.020                                   36.12
Chapter 197                               36.30
197.175                                   152.040
197.763(3)(i), (4)(b), (6)(b), and (6)(e) 31.06
Chapter 221                               11.01
221.200                                   30.02
221.315                                   11.21
Chapters 246 through 260                  30.02
                                          50.17,
223.297 through 223.314                   50.19,
                                          50.20
223.304                                   50.22
223.304(4)                                50.22
223.309                                   50.22
227.030                                   32.02
243.401 to 243.507                        36.05
243.478(1)                                36.05
244.020(7)(b)(F)                          31.05
250.035                                   30.02
250.041                                   30.02
250.275                                   30.02
250.285                                   30.02
254.095                                   30.02
254.465                                   30.02
271.080                                   32.02
Chapter 279A                              34.50,
                                          34.52
279A.065                                  34.50
Chapter 279B                              34.50,
                                          34.52
279B.055                                  34.55,
                                          34.57
279B.060                                  34.55
279B.120                                  34.57
279B.220                                  34.56
279B.230                                  34.56
279B.235                                  34.56
Chapter 279C                              34.50,
                                          34.52
279C.335                                  34.58
Chapter 294                               50.20
294.305 to 294.565                        32.06
Chapter 297                               34.34
305.220                                   34.02;
                                          34.27
305.620                                   34.02
314.400                                   34.02;
                                          34.27
332.061(2)                                36.12
419.472 through 419.597                   130.01
419.569                                   130.01
419.800 through 419.839                   130.01
419.990(2)                                130.01
419B550 through 419B558                   130.01
455.040                                   151.01
446.003                                   152.003
Chapter 447                               151.05
447.097                                   151.12
447.160                                   151.12
Chapter 455                               152.040
455.100 to 455.450                        152.003
455.895                                   151.12
455.990                                   151.12
Chapter 456                               11.01
456.885                                   151.12
456.885(2)                                151.12
Chapter 457                               36.01
457.010                                   32.08
457.010(1)                                32.08
457.035                                   32.08
457.045(2)                                32.08
475.300 through 475.346                   110.11
Chapter 475B                              110.11
475B.450                                  110.11
475B.491                                  34.02
475B.700 to 475B.755                      34.02
Chapter 476                               151.04,
                                          151.05
Chapter 479                               151.05
479.620                                   111.06
480.111                                   130.03
480.130 through 480.150                   130.03
Chapter 481                               70.01
Chapter 482                               70.01
Chapter 483                               70.01
Chapter 484                               70.01
Chapter 485                               70.01
527.610 through 527.810                   152.037;
                                          152.072
646A.600                                  36.06
656.031                                   30.01
693.165                                   151.12
693.190                                   151.12
783.010 to 783.170                        92.14
801.445                                   152.092
809.730                                   70.25
Chapter 814                               95.067
819.140(1)(c)                             33.01
                                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
6        9-8-1975    31.20 -
                     31.28
12       2-7-1977    34.37
41       7-7-1982    11.20
43       9-7-1982    11.20
59       6-4-1984    91.01
                     70.40;
62       12-4-1984   Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. II
112      12-6-1988   36.03
113      1-3-1989    32.04
120      7-17-1989   Ch. 71, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
126      12-18-1989  Ch. 72, Sch. II
132      6-18-1990   Ch. 72, Sch. II
162      6-29-1992   36.13
164      10-19-1992  35.05
173      5-17-1993   90.01
178      7-6-1993    35.06
181      9-7-1993    Ch. 72, Sch. II
182      10-18-1993  Ch. 72, Sch. II
186      12-6-1993   Ch. 72, Sch. II
199      5-20-1994   112.01
215      2-5-1996    Ch. 72, Sch. II
226      7-1-1996    33.02
234      10-7-1996   50.01
241      3-3-1997    Ch. 72, Sch. II
255      10-6-1997   Ch. 72, Sch. II
258      12-1-1997   110.12
262      1-5-1998    34.03
264      4-7-1998    33.01
281      5-16-2000   Ch. 72, Sch. II
308      4-16-2002   Ch. 72, Sch. II
313      12-4-2002   150.01
322      7-2-2003    31.01 -
                     31.07
332      12-17-2003  Ch. 72, Sch. II
344      11-16-2004  36.05
345      11-22-2004  34.01,
                     36.38
350      6-7-2005    30.01
352      6-7-2005    36.09,
                     36.10
363      7-18-2006   53.03
388      10-21-2008  36.06
396      9-1-2009    36.08
397      9-15-2009   Ch. 71, Sch. I
402      4-20-2010   36.04
413      6-21-2011   50.18
424      12-4-2012   36.07
425      12-18-2012  36.12
426      12-18-2012  35.03
445      10-6-2015   36.08
454      12-20-2016  Ch. 72, Sch. II
456      4-4-2017    34.05
464      - -2017     36.11
465      - -2017     36.02
466      12-19-2017  36.14
467      12-19-2017  35.01
468      3-6-2018    35.02
495-20   9-1-2020    53.01
497-20   10-6-2020   53.02
500-21   1-5-2021    36.08
502-21   2-2-2021    34.04
505-21   4-6-2021    92.13,
                     92.25
506-21   5-4-2021    92.28
510-21   7-20-2021   92.27
512-21   8-17-2021   92.26
                     50.18,
513-21   9-7-2021    51.10,
                     52.081
514-21   9-21-2021   36.38
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
3        1-2-1974    130.02,
                     130.99
7        7-3-1974    151.02 -
                     151.12
10A      1-10-1975   34.06
51       2-5-1975    52.082
50       2-14-1975   52.003
                     52.001 -
                     52.010,
                     52.025 -
                     52.031,
                     52.045 -
                     52.048,
                     52.060 -
                     52.068,
46       4-8-1975    52.080 -
                     52.084,
                     52.095 -
                     52.099,
                     52.110 -
                     52.112,
                     52.125 -
                     52.131,
                     52.999
47       4-24-1975   52.002,
                     52.081
17       7-7-1975    30.02
22       3-5-1976    34.20 -
                     34.36
                     152.001 -
                     152.010,
                     152.025 -
                     152.030 ,
                     152.034,
                     152.035,
                     152.038,
                     152.042,
                     152.055,
                     152.058 -
                     152.065,
                     152.115 -
                     152.117,
                     152.130 -
24       4-5-1976    152.136,
                     152.150 -
                     152.157,
                     152.158,
                     152.170 -
                     152.173,
                     152.185 -
                     152.188,
                     152.200 -
                     152.210,
                     152.225 -
                     152.235,
                     152.250 -
                     152.265,
                     152.999
25       5-3-1976    151.06
                     151.25 -
29       9-13-1976   151.34,
                     151.99
                     95.001 -
34       3-21-1977   95.017,
                     95.999
53       2-5-1979    52.082
                     152.250 -
57       6-4-1979    152.254,
                     152.256 -
                     152.265
61       1-7-1980    95.030,
                     95.031
62       1-7-1980    94.01 -
                     94.11
                     152.001,
                     152.002,
                     152.005,
                     152.006,
                     152.025 -
71       8-19-1980   152.030,
                     152.033 -
                     152.037,
                     152.058,
                     152.061,
                     152.062,
                     152.116
81       6-1-1981    95.018
                     152.036,
85       3-15-1982   152.225 -
                     152.235
                     152.250 -
87       3-15-1982   152.254,
                     152.256 -
                     152.265
88       4-5-1982    95.080 -
                     95.091
                     152.002,
                     152.028 ,
                     152.033,
92       7-7-1982    152.034,
                     152.058,
                     152.130 -
                     152.136
                     152.002,
93       7-7-1982    152.057,
                     152.130 -
                     152.136
                     11.01 -
94       7-7-1982    11.22,
                     11.99
                     70.01 -
100      2-7-1983    70.09,
                     70.99
101      2-21-1983   70.03
106      6-28-1983   34.26
110      12-5-1983   52.082,
                     52.128
                     152.250 -
                     152.254,
111      5-21-1984   152.256,
                     152.257 -
                     152.265
                     70.03,
118      12-4-1984   70.10,
                     70.99
85       3-15-1985   152.039
124      7-1-1985    152.058
                     152.002,
                     152.027 -
130      4-6-1987    152.030,
                     152.033,
                     152.058,
                     152.066
131      4-6-1987    34.20,
                     34.24
                     70.03,
138      2-16-1988   70.07,
                     70.09
139      3-24-1988   152.034
140      5-16-1988   32.05
141      5-16-1988   34.21,
                     34.33
142      9-19-1988   11.99
145      1-3-1989    152.028,
                     152.058
                     51.01 -
149      12-4-1989   51.09,
                     51.99
                     152.250 -
153      7-16-1990   152.254,
                     152.256 -
                     152.265
                     152.002,
                     152.027 -
                     152.030,
                     152.130 -
                     152.136,
154      9-17-1990   152.200 -
                     152.210,
                     152.250 -
                     152.254,
                     152.256 -
                     152.265
                     95.065 -
156      12-3-1990   95.068,
                     95.999
157      12-3-1990   130.01,
                     130.99
161      4-1-1991    70.11
                     94.25 -
164      7-1-1991    94.29,
                     94.99
165      7-1-1991    51.02,
                     51.10
167      7-1-1991    34.31
168      7-1-1991    52.003,
                     52.004
169      7-1-1991    52.082
163      9-16-1991   152.067
                     152.002,
                     152.025 -
                     152.030,
                     152.033,
                     152.034,
                     152.039,
                     152.056,
172      10-7-1991   152.058,
                     152.061,
                     152.130 -
                     152.136,
                     152.200 -
                     152.210,
                     152.225 -
                     152.235
                     152.002,
                     152.025 -
                     152.030,
                     152.033,
                     152.058,
173      12-2-1991   152.061,
                     152.067,
                     152.130 -
                     152.136,
                     152.200 -
                     152.210
174      3-16-1992   152.200 -
                     152.210
178      6-1-1992    152.002,
                     152.034
                     51.45 -
179      8-3-1992    51.47,
                     51.99
                     111.01 -
181      9-8-1992    111.13,
                     111.99
184      11-2-1992   111.04,
                     111.10
185      12-22-1992  152.002,
                     152.170
                     152.028,
186      12-22-1992  152.029,
                     152.033
                     152.002,
187      2-16-1993   152.025 -
                     152.030
189      4-5-1993    51.05,
                     51.06
195      10-18-1993  34.20,
                     34.24
197      10-18-1993  95.030,
                     95.032
196      10-26-1993  32.05
194      12-6-1993   152.068,
                     152.071
183      19-18-1993  95.032
201      1-4-1994    53.03
206      8-1-1994    32.07
210      11-7-1994   70.25
212      12-19-1994  35.04
215      2-6-1995    31.28
                     52.062,
216      4-11-1995   52.068,
                     52.110 -
                     52.112
217      4-17-1995   152.029
219      6-5-1995    51.25 -
                     51.33
222      8-7-1995    152.057
225      10-16-1995  152.116
                     152.002,
                     152.028,
234      12-16-1996  152.033,
                     152.058,
                     152.069,
                     152.070
                     152.002,
236      12-16-1996  152.025 -
                     152.029
237      4-7-1997    152.033
238      4-21-1997   95.045 -
                     95.049
239      6-2-1997    152.225 -
                     152.235
241      9-2-1997    34.21
                     110.01 -
243      11-17-1997  110.10,
                     110.99
244      1-5-1998    34.03
245      10-20-1998  150.02
                     34.20,
250      6-6-2000    34.21,
                     34.24
                     51.01,
251      7-5-2000    51.08,
                     51.10
258      2-19-2002   95.067
259      6-4-2002    32.02
260      12-3-2002   152.041
261      1-6-2003    152.002,
                     152.032
262      6-3-2003    34.21
                     50.15 -
264      8-19-2003   50.27,
                     50.99
                     152.002,
                     152.025 -
                     152.029,
                     152.037,
                     152.039,
                     152.042,
                     152.055,
                     152.056,
                     152.058,
                     152.061,
                     152.072 -
                     152.076,
                     152.115,
256      4-6-2004    152.116,
                     152.130 -
                     152.136,
                     152.150 -
                     152.158,
                     152.186,
                     152.200 -
                     152.210,
                     152.225 -
                     152.235,
                     152.250 -
                     152.254,
                     152.256 -
                     152.265
                     31.28,
267      5-18-2004   32.02,
                     32.05,
                     32.07
                     152.002,
                     152.025 -
268      11-2-2004   152.030,
                     152.033,
                     152.035
269      11-22-2004  36.30 -
                     36.37
278      3-21-2007   152.002,
                     152.072
279      - -2007     152.030,
                     152.058
280      5-20-2008   32.08
282      8-5-2008    36.01
257      5-4-2010    152.002
                     152.002,
                     152.025 -
                     152.029,
                     152.037,
                     152.039,
                     152.066,
                     152.071,
                     152.075,
287      5-4-2010    152.136,
                     152.200 -
                     152.210,
                     152.225 -
                     152.235,
                     152.250 -
                     152.254,
                     152.256 -
                     152.265
                     51.10,
288      7-20-2010   52.080,
                     52.081
                     32.01,
290      9-20-2011   32.02,
                     32.05,
                     32.07
292      12-18-2012  92.01 -
                     92.14
                     93.01 -
294      12-18-2012  93.08,
                     93.99
296      6-4-2013    32.06
299      9-3-2013    32.06
298      9-20-2013   92.11
302      3-17-2015   110.11
304      10-6-2015   92.02,
                     92.03
305      7-19-2016   34.02
306      7-19-2016   95.050
309      9-20-2016   110.11
310      11-1-2016   152.042
311      12-20-2016  34.02
313      7-5-2017    34.21
                     152.090 -
314      9-5-2017    152.103,
                     152.999
316      - -2017     92.02,
                     92.03
319      10-1-2019   152.031
320      10-15-2019  152.040,
                     152.999
322-20   6-16-2020   32.03
325-20   7-7-2020    152.203 -
                     152.205
326-20   7-7-2020    152.255
324-20   7-21-2020   152.115
                     152.003,
327-21   4-20-2021   152.030,
                     152.033
329-21   8-3-2021    34.50 -
                     34.58
                     34.20 -
330-21   9-21-2021   34.36;
                     Ch. 34, App. A;
                     Ch. 34, App. B
331-21   12-7-2021   130.03
                    
 
 
