DRAIN, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through 444 passed 1-8-2024
 
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   
CHAPTER I.   
   
CHAPTER II.      POWERS
   
CHAPTER III.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   
CHAPTER IV.   COUNCIL
   
CHAPTER V.   MUNICIPAL COURT
   
CHAPTER VI.   CITY ADMINISTRATOR
   
CHAPTER VII.   ELECTIONS
   
CHAPTER VIII.   VACANCIES IN OFFICE
   
CHAPTER IX.   ORDINANCES
   
CHAPTER X.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
   
CHAPTER XI.   INDEBTEDNESS
   
CHAPTER XII.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
CHARTER
   CITY OF DRAIN, OREGON
Editor’s note:
   The city adopted the following charter by Ordinance 284 on December 9, 1980
   CHAPTER I
   SECTION 1. Title. This revision of the Drain Charter of 1954 may be referred
to as the Drain Charter of 1981.
   SECTION 2. Name of City. The City of Drain, Douglas County, Oregon,
continues under this Charter to be a municipal corporation, with the name “CITY
OF DRAIN.”
   SECTION 3. Boundaries. The City includes all territory encompassed by its
boundaries as they exist when this revision of the Charter is adopted or as
they are subsequently modified in accordance with state law. The repository of
city records shall include at least two copies of this charter, each containing
an accurate, up-to-date description of the boundaries. The copies and
description shall be available for public inspection during regular office
hours.
   CHAPTER II
   POWERS
   SECTION 4. Powers of the City. The city has all powers which the
constitution, statutes, or common law of the United States or of this state
expressly or impliedly grant or allow municipalities as fully as though this
charter specifically enumerated each of those powers.
   SECTION 5. Construction of Powers. In this charter no mention of a
particular power is exclusive or restricts the scope of the powers which the
city would have if the particular power were not mentioned. The charter shall
be liberally construed to the end that the city have all powers necessary or
convenient for the conduct of its municipal affairs, including all powers that
a city may assume pursuant to state laws or the municipal home rule provisions
of the state constitution.
   SECTION 6. Where Powers Vested. Except as this charter provides otherwise,
all powers of the city are vested in the council.
   CHAPTER III
   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   SECTION 7. Council. The council is composed of a mayor and four councilors
elected from the city at large.
   SECTION 8. Councilors. The councilors shall be elected for four years. Two
councilors shall be elected at each biennial general election. Each councilor
shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   SECTION 9. Mayor. At each biennial general election a mayor shall be elected
for a term of two years and shall hold office until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
   SECTION 10. Other Officers. Additional officers of the City may be appointed
and removed by the council as it deems necessary.
   SECTION 11. Salaries. The mayor and councilors may receive no pay for their
services and the compensation of other officers and employees shall be fixed by
the council.
   SECTION 12. Qualifications of Officers. No person is eligible for an
elective office of this city unless at the time of the officer’s election, the
officer is a qualified elector within the meaning of the state constitution, is
a resident of the City, and has been a resident of the City during the 12
months immediately preceding the election. The council is the final judge of
the qualifications and election of its own members.
   CHAPTER IV
   COUNCIL
   SECTION 13. Meetings. The council shall prescribe the time and place of its
regular meetings, at least one of which shall be held each month. The mayor or
three councilors may call special meetings of the council in a manner
prescribed by ordinance.
   SECTION 14. Quorum. A majority of the members of the council constitutes a
quorum for the transaction of council business, except that a lesser number may
meet and compel attendance of absent members in a manner prescribed by
ordinance. A quorum may also compel the attendance of absent members.
   SECTION 15. Journal. The council shall keep a journal of its proceedings.
Upon request of any of its members, the ayes and nays upon any question before
it shall be taken, and a record of the vote entered in the journal.
   SECTION 16. Mayors Function at Council Meetings. The mayor shall preside at
council meetings and may vote on all questions before the council.
   SECTION 17. President of the Council. At the first meeting of each odd-
numbered year, the council by ballot shall elect a president from its
membership. In the mayor’s absence from a council meeting, the president shall
preside over it. Whenever the mayor is unable to perform the functions of his
or her office, the president shall act as mayor.
   SECTION 18. Vote Required. The concurrence of a majority of the members of
the council present at a meeting, provided that a quorum is present, may decide
any question before the council, except as this Charter otherwise provides.
   CHAPTER V
   MUNICIPAL COURT
   SECTION 19. Judges, Powers, Procedure.
   (1)   The city council may appoint a municipal judge, for a term and at a
salary it specifies. The municipal judge shall hold within the city a court
known as municipal court for the City of Drain. The court shall be open for the
transaction of judicial business at times specified by the council. All areas
within the city are to be within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
   (2)   The municipal judge shall exercise jurisdiction of all offenses
defined and made punishable by ordinances of the city and of all actions
brought to enforce forfeitures or penalties defined or authorized by ordinances
of the city. The municipal judge shall have authority to issue process for the
arrest of any person accused of an offense against the ordinances of the city,
to commit any such person to imprisonment or admit the person to bail pending
trial, to issue subpoenas to compel witnesses to appear and testify on the
trial of any cause before the court, to enforce obedience to the subpoenas, to
issue process necessary to carry into effect the judgment of the court, and to
punish witnesses and others for contempt of court.
   (3)   When not governed by ordinances or this charter, all proceedings in
the municipal court for the violation of a city ordinance shall be governed by
the applicable general laws of the state governing justices of the peace and
justice courts.
   CHAPTER VI
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR
   SECTION 20. City Administrator.
   (1)   (a)   The city council may appoint a city administrator and fix his or
her compensation and conditions of employment.
      (b)   If the office of city administrator becomes vacant, the mayor may
appoint a city administrator pro tem. The pro tem administrator shall have all
functions of the city administrator. The term of office of a pro tem
administrator ends when a city administrator takes office.
      (c)   The city administrator shall be the administrative head of the city
and shall be chosen without political consideration and solely on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications.
      (d)   The city administrator and such other officers as the council
designates may sit with the council but have no vote therein. The city
administrator may take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the
council.
   SECTION 21. Duties of City Administrator.
   (1)   The City Administrator shall:
      (a)   Prepare the annual budget;
      (b)   Make all purchases;
      (c)   Oversee enforcement of all ordinances;
      (d)   Act as business agent for the council for the sale of real estate
and other matters relating to franchises, leases, and other business and
property transactions;
      (e)   Prepare and furnish all reports requested by the council;
      (f)   Perform such other duties as the council directs.
   (2)   The duties of all administrative employees shall be assigned to them
by the city administrator, and they shall be responsible and accountable to the
administrator.
   (3)   The powers herein granted to the city administrator are exclusive.
   (4)   The city administrator may be removed by the council with or without
cause at any time.
   CHAPTER VII
   ELECTIONS
   SECTION 22. Notice. The officer in charge of city elections shall give ten
days’ public notice of each city election. The notice shall state the officers
to be elected, the measures to be submitted at the election, and the time and
place for the election.
   SECTION 23. Regulation of Elections. Except as this charter provides
otherwise and as the council provides otherwise by ordinance relating to
elections, the general laws of the state shall apply to all nominations for an
elective city office, the conduct of city elections, recounts of the returns
therefrom and contests therefore.
   SECTION 24. Votes. The person receiving the greatest number of the votes
cast for any of the candidates for the office at the election at which the
office is filled is elected to that office. In the event of a tie vote, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the council.
   SECTION 25. Certificate of Election. After the votes at any municipal
election have been canvassed, the city officer in charge of administering
elections shall issue a certificate of election to each person declared by the
canvassers to have been elected at the election. The certificate shall be prima
facie evidence of the facts therein stated.
   SECTION 26. Oath or Affirmation of Office. Before entering upon the duties
of their offices, all elected officers, the city administrator, municipal judge
and all department heads shall take an oath or shall affirm as follows: “I,
                         , do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution and laws of the United States and of Oregon, that I will, to the
best of my ability, faithfully perform the duties of              during my
continuance therein, so help me God.” If the person affirms, instead of the
last clause of the oath, there shall be stated: “And this I do affirm under the
pains and penalties of perjury.”
   SECTION 27. Terms. The term of office of a person elected at a regular city
election commences on the first Monday in January following the election.
   CHAPTER VIII
   VACANCIES IN OFFICE
   SECTION 28. An office becomes vacant upon the incumbent’s death, removal
from office, resignation or ceasing to possess the qualifications necessary for
office. An elective office becomes vacant whenever its incumbent is absent from
the city for a period of thirty days or fails to attend two consecutive regular
meetings of the council without the prior consent of the council and upon a
declaration by the council of the vacancy.
   SECTION 29. Filling of Vacancies. The council shall fill a vacancy in any
elective city office by appointment within ninety days after the vacancy
occurs. A majority vote of the council is required to validate the appointment.
The appointee’s term of office begins immediately upon the appointment and
expires when the term of the person whose office has become vacant would have
expired had that person continued in office. During the temporary disability of
any officer or an officer’s temporary absence from the city for any cause, the
office may be filled pro tem in the manner provided for filling vacancies in
office permanently.
   CHAPTER IX
   ORDINANCES
   SECTION 30. Enacting Clause. The enacting clause of all ordinances hereafter
enacted shall be “The City of Drain ordains as follows:”
   SECTION 31. Adoption.
   (1)   Except as subsection (3) of this section provides for reading by title
or bill number only, and except as subsection (2) of this section provides for
immediate adoption of emergency measures, an ordinance, before being finally
adopted, shall be fully and distinctly read in open council meeting on two
days.
   (2)   Except as subsection (3) of this section provides for reading by title
or bill number only, an ordinance necessary to meet an emergency may, upon
being read in full and then by title, be adopted at a single meeting of the
council by unanimous vote of all councilors present.
   (3)   Any reading of an ordinance for purposes of adoption may be by title
or bill number only:
      a.   If no councilor present at the meeting requests that the ordinance
be read in full; or
      b.   If for one week prior to the reading a copy of the ordinance is
provided each councilor and copies are available for public inspection at the
office of the mayor or city administrator during regular office hours and
notice of their availability is posted at city hall or published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (4)   An ordinance adopted after being read by title or bill number only has
no legal effect if it differs substantially from its terms as they stand when
so read, unless each section incorporating such a difference, as finally
amended prior to being adopted by the council, is fully and distinctly read in
open council meeting.
   SECTION 32. Mayor’s Signature. Upon the adoption of an ordinance by the
council, the mayor shall sign the ordinance and indicate the date of his or her
signature.
   SECTION 33. When Ordinance Takes Effect. An ordinance adopted by the council
takes effect on the 30th day after its adoption by the council and signing by
the mayor, unless it is necessary to have immediate effect for the preservation
of the peace, health, safety and welfare of the city, in which event it takes
effect immediately upon its adoption by the council and signing by the mayor.
An ordinance may provide a later time for it to take effect.
   CHAPTER X
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
   SECTION 34. Procedure. The procedure for making, altering, vacating or
abandoning a public improvement is governed by general ordinance or to the
extent not so governed by the applicable general laws of the state. The
procedure for levying, collecting and enforcing the payment of special
assessments for public improvements or other services to be charged against
real property shall be governed by general ordinance.
   CHAPTER XI
   INDEBTEDNESS
   SECTION 35. Debt Limit.
   (1)   Indebtedness of the City may not exceed the limits on city
indebtedness under state law.
   (2)   Approval by the voters of city indebtedness need not be in the form of
a charter amendment.
   CHAPTER XII
   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   SECTION 36. Presumption of Validity of City Action. In every proceeding in
any court concerning the exercise or enforcement by the city or any of its
officers or agencies of any power by this act given to the city or any of its
officers or agencies, all acts by the city or any of its officers or agencies
shall be presumed to be valid, and no error or omission in any such act
invalidates it, unless the person attacking it alleges and proves that he or
she has been misled by the error or omission to his or her damage; and the
court shall disregard every error or admission which does not affect a
substantial right of the person. Any action committed by this charter to the
discretion of the council is final, when taken and may not be reviewed or
called into question elsewhere.
   SECTION 37. Existing Ordinances Continued. All ordinances of the city
consistent with this charter and in force when it takes effect remain in effect
until amended or repealed.
   SECTION 38. Repeal Previously Enacted Provision. All charter provisions of
the city enacted prior to the time that this charter takes effect are hereby
repealed except that no unexhausted grant of power to issue bonds is repealed
and no repeal of these previous charter provisions affects the validity of an
outstanding bond issue by the city or impairs the obligations of the city under
the bond or the rights of the holders of that bond.
   SECTION 39. Effective Date of Revision. This revised Charter has legal
effect on and after February 17, 1981.
Passed by the Council and approved by the Mayor this 9th day of December, 1980.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Drain City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour day other than a Saturday, Sunday or federal or
state legal holiday.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Drain, Oregon or
as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a future time.
The term CITY, when used in this code, may also be used to refer to the City
Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Douglas County, Oregon.
      DAY. Calendar day unless otherwise indicated as business day or working
day.
      GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the city of Drain, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean at least 24-hours’ notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall take effect as provided in
the City Charter. If there is no City Charter, all ordinances passed by the
City Council shall take effect as provided by the City Council or applicable
state law.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-2-1979; Ord. 185,
passed 4-1-1990)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.314
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) below.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
33.   IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR MEASURE 49 CLAIMS
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Regular meetings falling on holidays
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Study/work sessions
   
30.05   Open meetings
   
30.06   Executive sessions
   
30.07   Adjournment
   
30.08   Quorum
   
30.09   Order of business
   
30.10   Items to be acted on generally
   
30.11   New business
   
30.12   Journal/minutes
   
30.13   Reading of minutes
   
30.14   Standing committees
   
30.15   Public members addressing the Council
   
30.16   Voting
   
30.17   Passage of resolutions
   
30.18   News media
   
30.19   Public notice
   
30.20   Robert’s Rules of Order
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall meet in regular session on the second Monday of each month
in the meeting room of the City Civic Center at a time set by Council. A
meeting may be cancelled with the concurrence of a majority of the Council, but
in no event shall there be less than one meeting per month.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.02 REGULAR MEETINGS FALLING ON HOLIDAYS.
   If the regular meeting date of the Council falls on a legal holiday, as
defined by state statutes, the Council will meet on the following day in the
meeting room of the City Civic Center or as directed by Council. The meeting
shall be a regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called at any time, on the request of
three members of the Council, by the Mayor or by the President of the Council
in the Mayor’s absence, by giving notice of the meeting to the Council members
and the public in a manner and for a time as circumstances may permit, but with
a view to obtaining the largest possible attendance of Council members.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.04 STUDY/WORK SESSIONS.
   Study/work sessions of the Council shall be held in accordance with state
statutes whenever special circumstances require such a session, and the session
shall be called by either the Mayor, City Administrator or Council members.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.05 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings, other than executive sessions, shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.06 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Executive sessions may be held during regular or special meetings, so long
as the requirements of the State Public Meetings Law (O.R.S. 192.630) are met.
No final decision shall be made during executive session.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.07 ADJOURNMENT.
   Any meeting may be adjourned to a certain time, place and date, but not
beyond the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.07) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.08 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of Council business, except that a lesser number may meet and
compel attendance of absent members.
   (B)   If a quorum is not present, the City Administrator shall immediately
inform the absent members, except those known to be unavoidably detained, that
their presence is required. If the absent member(s) do not appear after the
notice, the members present shall adjourn to a certain time, place and date.
(Prior Code, § 30.08) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.09 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at each Council meeting shall be in accordance with
the agenda prepared by the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 30.09) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.10 ITEMS TO BE ACTED ON GENERALLY.
   Normally, only those items on the agenda shall be acted on by the Council.
Matters deemed to be emergencies or of an urgent nature by the Mayor, Council
members, the City Administrator or City Attorney may be submitted for Council
consideration and action.
(Prior Code, § 30.10) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.11 NEW BUSINESS.
   The Mayor or a Council member may bring before the Council, any new business
under the “Other Business From” portion of the agenda. These matters need not
be specifically listed on the agenda, but formal action on the matters shall be
deferred until a subsequent Council meeting, unless deemed urgent.
(Prior Code, § 30.11) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.12 JOURNAL/MINUTES.
   The Council shall keep a written journal or minutes of its proceedings in
accordance with statutory requirements. The minutes must include, at a minimum:
   (A)   All members of the Council present;
   (B)   All motions, proposals, resolutions, orders, ordinances and measures
proposed and their disposition;
   (C)   The results of all votes and votes of all members by name;
   (D)   The substance of any discussion and any matter; and
   (E)   A reference to any document discussed at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.12) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.13 READING OF MINUTES.
   Unless the reading of the minutes of the previous Council meeting is
requested by a majority of the Council, the minutes may be approved without
reading, if copies have been previously furnished to each of the Council
members.
(Prior Code, § 30.13) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.14 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   The following standing committees shall be appointed by the City Council.
Rules, regulations and committee outlines shall be established by resolution
and/or ordinances:
   (A)   Planning Commission; and
   (B)   Citizen Volunteer Committee. The City Council directs staff to reserve
a permanent spot on the council agendas under “Committee and Commendations” if
a citizen-led cemetery committee is created, allowing them to come and speak at
any Council meetings, without making a request to speak.
(Prior Code, § 30.14) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016;
Ord. 444, passed 1-8-2024; Res. R2324-09, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 30.15 PUBLIC MEMBERS ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any public member desiring to address the Council shall stand and wait
to be recognized by the presiding officer. After recognition, the person’s name
and address shall be stated for the record and the remarks shall be limited to
the question under discussion. All remarks and questions shall be addressed to
the presiding officer and not to any individual Council members, staff members
or other persons. No person shall enter into any discussion without being
recognized by the presiding officer.
   (B)   Any public members addressing the Council shall be limited to three
minutes unless further time is granted by the presiding officer or unless the
presiding officer directs otherwise. No public members shall be allowed to
speak more than once upon any one subject until every other public member
choosing to speak thereon has spoken.
   (C)   After a motion has been made, or after a public hearing has been
closed, no public member shall address the Council without first securing
permission from the Mayor or Council President.
(Prior Code, § 30.15) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016;
Ord. 440, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 30.16 VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at Council meetings and may vote on all
questions before the Council.
   (B)   Every Council member shall vote when a question is taken unless the
Council excuses the member for a special reason; but no members shall be
permitted to vote on any subject in which a member has a direct pecuniary
interest.
   (C)   Two members may demand the ayes and nays on any question.
   (D)   If not otherwise controlled by Charter provision, the concurrence of a
majority of the members of the Council present at a Council meeting shall be
necessary to decide any question before the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.16) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.17 PASSAGE OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Each resolution shall be read only once before being voted on, and that
reading may be by title only unless any member of the Council requests the
resolution be read in full. A resolution is effective immediately upon passage.
(Prior Code, § 30.17) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.18 NEWS MEDIA.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent news media
representatives from performing their duties so long as the manner of
performances is not unreasonably disruptive of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.18) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.19 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Except in a case of an actual emergency, public notice of all meetings must
be given at least 24 hours in advance.
   (A)   This notice shall be reasonably calculated to give actual notice to
interested persons of the time and place for holding the meeting.
   (B)   Notice shall be deemed to be sufficient if it is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city and/or posted in a conspicuous
place in City Hall and the post office, plus on the city’s web site and bill
message. The city shall notify by email, fax or phone directly to news media
and members of the public who have requested notice of meetings.
   (C)   In a case of an actual emergency, a meeting may be held upon such
notice as is appropriate to the circumstances. The minutes of the meeting must
describe the emergency which justified calling the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.19) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 30.20 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised, shall be used as the guideline for conduct
of Council meetings, except in those cases where specific provisions contrary
to Robert’s Rules are provided in this chapter or by City Charter.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Ord. 405, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 426, passed 7-11-2016)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Regional Cable Television Commission
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Creation
   
31.03   Duties and powers
   
31.04   Procedure for adopting regulations
   
31.05   Reservation of powers
Planning Commission
   
31.20   Establishment
   
31.21   Members
   
31.22   Presiding members
   
31.23   Compensation
   
31.24   Quorum
   
31.25   Meetings
   
31.26   Employment of staff
   
31.27   Powers and duties
   
31.28   Gifts and bequests
   
31.29   Sales of lots in a subdivision
REGIONAL CABLE TELEVISION COMMISSION
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The commission established by §
31.02.
   FEDERAL ACT. The sections of the Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C.
§§ 201 et seq., dealing with cable television as amended by the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. Law No. 98-549, 1984 and by the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. Law No. 102-
385, 106 Stat. 1460, 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. Any local government with authority to grant a
franchise to a cable operator.
(Prior Code, § 31.15) (Ord. 352, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 31.02 CREATION.
   (A)   The Regional Cable Television Commission is hereby created. It shall
consist of a public elected or appointed official from each franchising
authority enacting an ordinance similar to this subchapter empowering the
Commission as herein provided.
   (B)   A majority of the public officials designated under division (A)
above, or five of them, whichever is less, shall constitute a quorum, and,
except as provided in this division (B), all actions of the Commission shall be
determined by a majority of the officials present. When a matter before the
Commission only affects cable customers in one city, the public official
representing that city on the Commission must vote with the prevailing side for
the Commission to take action.
   (C)   (1)   The franchising authority’s representative on the Commission
shall be an appointed or elected official of the franchising authority,
nominated by the Mayor or other chief executive and approved by the Council or
governing body.
      (2)   When unable to attend Commission meetings, the representative may
designate an alternate who shall be another appointed or elected official of
the franchising authority and who may act in the representative’s stead on
matters before the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 31.16) (Ord. 352, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 31.03 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Duties. The duties of the Commission shall be:
      (1)   To administer the existing cable television franchise issued by the
franchising authority and any future franchise enacted by the franchising
authority;
      (2)   To establish by resolution within the franchise authority
territories where the Commission has been empowered, all necessary regulations
of cable television operators, including, but not limited to, rate regulations,
rate setting procedures, procedures to ensure only properly established rates
are being charged customers, consumer protection regulations and such other
regulations as the Commission deems necessary to perform its duties;
      (3)   Within the limitations of this subchapter, to establish and impose
such penalties for violation of the Commission’s regulations;
      (4)   To establish procedures for hearing and disposing of all complaints
concerning cable television service within the franchising authority;
      (5)   Except for powers expressly reserved to the franchising authority
in this subchapter, to perform within the geographic jurisdiction of the
franchising authority all functions now or hereafter granted to local
franchising authorities under the federal act and FCC regulations; and
      (6)   To perform such other duties delegated to the Commission by a
member franchising authority.
   (B)   Delegation. Except as expressly reserved to the franchising authority
in this subchapter, all powers of the franchising authority under state and
federal law and under the franchising authority’s existing cable television
franchise are hereby delegated to the Commission.
   (C)   Powers. To enable it to perform its duties but subject to the
limitations in this subchapter, the Commission shall have the following powers:
      (1)   By resolution of the Commission, to adopt bylaws, rules of
procedure and other regulations, including the determination of penalties
within the jurisdictional limits of the franchising authority for violation of
its rules and regulations;
      (2)   To contract and enforce its contracts and regulations in
administrative and judicial forums of the state and federal governments;
      (3)   Negotiate and recommend to the franchising authority for enactment
amendments to existing cable television franchises and new franchises;
      (4)   To sue and be sued in the name of the Commission;
      (5)   To employ staff by contracting with the Lane Council of Governments
or with a local franchising authority that is a member of the Commission;
      (6)   To impose dues upon member franchising authorities to cover the
cost of performing its responsibilities under this subchapter when the fees and
charges collected from the cable operator are insufficient to meet the expenses
of the Commission and its staff, and to deny participation of any member
franchising authority’s representatives and to refuse to consider matters which
only affect a franchising authority that is delinquent in payment of its dues
until the delinquency is corrected;
      (7)   To designate the Lane Council of Governments or another member
franchising authority to budget the Commission revenues and expenditures and,
to the degree necessary, comply with state local government budget law; and
      (8)   To take any action necessary or convenient to perform its duties.
(Prior Code, § 31.17) (Ord. 352, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 31.04 PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permanent regulations.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, all resolutions which
impose a penalty, or which concern consumer protection regulations or rate
making regulations, shall be adopted by the Commission only after published
notice of the proposal and an opportunity for public comment.
      (2)   Such notice shall contain a brief summary of the proposed
regulations, identify where copies of the full text of the regulation may be
obtained and specify the date, time and location where the Commission will
receive public comment.
      (3)   The notice shall be published twice, the first publication not less
than ten days and the second publication not less than three days before the
time of receiving comments. Such notice shall be in a newspaper of general
circulation within the community or communities affected by the proposed
regulation.
   (B)   Temporary regulations. When the Commission determines that it lacks
adequate regulations to fulfill its duties, that if such regulation is not
enacted the Commission’s ability to perform its duties will be impaired and
that it is acting in a manner that is not prohibited by the federal act or
regulations propounded thereunder, it may summarily adopt regulations which
shall remain in effect until permanent regulations may be enacted, provided the
temporary regulation shall expire upon enactment of the regulation under
division (A) above or six months, whichever first occurs.
(Prior Code, § 31.18) (Ord. 352, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 31.05 RESERVATION OF POWERS.
   The franchising authority hereby reserves to itself the power:
   (A)   To enact cable television service franchises after receiving the
Commission’s recommendation;
   (B)   To appear in any proceeding before the Commission or its designee and
to appeal any decision of the Commission or its designee;
   (C)   To regulate the cable operator’s use of the public way and public
property over which the operator has been given a right of use and to enforce
local land development laws; and
   (D)   To withdraw from the Commission by repealing this subchapter after
giving 90 days prior written notice of its intent to withdraw to the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 31.19) (Ord. 352, passed 8-8-1994)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Planning Commission for the city was established by Ordinance 239 in
1977.
(Prior Code, § 31.25) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.21 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission shall consist of three members appointed
by the City Council.
   (B)   Eligible members shall have been residents of the city for at least
one year, except that one member may reside outside the city limits and inside
the city’s urban growth boundary. A member shall become ineligible if a change
in eligibility occurs.
   (C)   The terms of office shall be three years, and said terms shall be
staggered in such a manner that at least one position shall be appointed in
each year of three consecutive years. There shall be no limitation on
reappointments.
   (D)   No member shall be an employee or officer of the city, but the City
Administrator and/or the Administrative Assistant shall be entitled to sit with
the Commission and take part in its discussion but shall not have the right to
vote.
   (E)   Upon expiration of a term of office, Council shall reappoint the
member or publicly announce the vacancy and solicit applications. Selection
shall be made by Council.
   (F)   A member may be removed by the City Council, after a hearing, for
misconduct or nonperformance of duty. Any vacancy shall be filled by the City
Council for the unexpired term of the predecessor in office.
   (G)   No more than one member shall be engaged principally in the buying,
selling or developing of real estate for profit as an individual, or be a
member of any partnership or officer or employee of any corporation that is
engaged principally in the buying, selling or developing of real estate for
profit. No more than one member shall be engaged in the same kind of business,
trade or profession.
   (H)   The Planning Commission may make and alter rules and regulations for
its operations and procedures consistent with the laws of this state and with
the City Charter and ordinances of the city, subject to review and approval by
the City Council. Membership shall comply with state statute.
(Prior Code, § 31.26) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.22 PRESIDING MEMBERS.
   (A)   At its first meeting of each year, the Commission shall elect a Chair
who shall have voting member status. The term of office shall be one year,
although the officers shall hold office at the discretion of the Commission.
Officers are eligible for re-election.
   (B)   In the absence of the Chair, an interim Chair shall be selected from
the remaining two members.
(Prior Code, § 31.27) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.23 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Planning Commission shall receive no compensation but
shall be reimbursed for authorized expenditures.
   (B)   The Commission shall keep an accurate record of all its expenses and
submit a request for reimbursement to the city’s Office Manager/Accounting
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.28) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.24 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum. If a quorum cannot be obtained because of a conflict of interest and/or
if a quorum of two cannot be achieved by the next Planning Commission meeting,
the issue will be forwarded to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.29) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.25 MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall schedule a meeting at least once a month,
dependent on a presentable agenda issue (no agenda/no meeting). Meetings at
other than regularly scheduled times may be announced at a prior meeting and
thereby made a part of the record. A special meeting may be called by the Chair
or at the request of two Commission members for a time not to be earlier than
24 hours of notice is given. All meetings shall be open to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 31.30) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.26 EMPLOYMENT OF STAFF.
   The Planning Commission, upon approval of the City Council, shall have power
and authority to employ consulting advice (i.e., Umpqua Regional Council of
Governments) on municipal problems. Staff reports shall be presented to the
City Administrator and/or the Administrative Assistant or by a professional
consultant. Staff shall document and maintain accurate records of the
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 31.31) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.27 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall have the powers and duties which are now or
may hereafter be assigned to it by Charter, ordinances or resolutions of the
city and by general laws of the state.
      (2)   The Commission shall rule on all requests in regard to the
authority implemented by the Development Ordinance, development standards,
Public Improvement Code and other zoning ordinances.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall function primarily as a comprehensive
planning body by proposing policy and legislation to the City Council and by
implementing regulations relating to the growth and development of the
community. The functions of the Planning Commission may include the following:
      (1)   Study and review all elements of the Comprehensive Plan and make
recommendations to the City Council in order to comply with state laws and to
respond to changing circumstances;
      (2)   Study and review the Development Ordinance, development standards
and Public Improvement Code or any other ordinances which implement the
Comprehensive Plan and review these ordinances to assure compliance with the
plan and state laws;
      (3)   Review and recommend to City Council detailed plans which relate to
public facilities and services, housing, economic development, transportation,
recreation, energy conservation and natural resources for the betterment of
community growth and assist in the development of funding sources for public
projects in these subject areas;
      (4)   Cooperate with other planning groups and public, semi-public, civic
and private planning and development activities; and
      (5)   Make and file with the City Council minutes of all meetings of the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 31.32) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.28 GIFTS AND BEQUESTS.
   The Planning Commission may receive gifts, bequests or devises of property
to carry out any of the purposes of the Development Ordinance and shall have
control and disposition over the same unless §§
31.20 through
31.29 are repealed, in which case such control shall be vested in the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.33) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 31.29 SALES OF LOTS IN A SUBDIVISION.
   It is unlawful for any person, being the owner of agent of the owner of any
land located within any subdivision hereafter platted lying within territorial
jurisdiction of the Planning Commission, to transfer or sell or agree to sell
or negotiate to sell any such land by reference to or exhibition or other use
of a plat of such subdivision before such plat has been approved by the
Planning Commission and City Council and recorded or filed in the office of the
County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.34) (Ord. 391, passed 5-12-2003)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Lien Search
   
32.001   Issuance of lien certificate authorized
   
32.002   Certificate fee
   
32.003   City liability
City Contracts
   
32.015   Contract Review Board and contracting agency
   
32.016   Adoption of State Procedures and Model Rules
   
32.017   Exemptions
   
32.018   Authority of City Administrator
   
32.019   Electronic notice of public improvement contracts
   
32.020   Public improvement contracts
   
32.021   Bid security and performance bonds
   
32.022   Negotiation with bidders
   
32.023   Personal services contracts
   
32.024   Disposition of surplus personal property
   
32.025   Conflict with State Public Contracting Code
Recreational Marijuana Retail Sales Tax
   
32.040   Definitions
   
32.041   Tax imposed
   
32.042   Collection
   
32.043   Accounting; records
   
32.044   Appeal
   
32.045   Refund
   
32.046   Intergovernmental agreement authorized
Systems Development Charges
   
32.060   Purpose; scope
   
32.061   Definitions
   
32.062   Systems development charge established
   
32.063   Methodology
   
32.064   Authorized expenditures
   
32.065   Expenditure restrictions
   
32.066   Improvement plan
   
32.067   Collection charge
   
32.068   Delinquent charges; hearing
   
32.069   Installment payment
   
32.070   Exemptions
   
32.071   Credits
   
32.072   Segregation and use of revenue
   
32.073   Appeal procedure
   
32.074   Prohibited connection
 
   
32.999   Penalty
LIEN SEARCH
§ 32.001 ISSUANCE OF LIEN CERTIFICATE AUTHORIZED.
   Upon receipt of application and payment of fees as herein provided, the City
Administrator or his or her designated representative is authorized to make a
search of the lien records of the city and to issue a certificate of the
existence of the city and to issue a certificate of the existence of liens upon
real property within the city. Each certificate shall set forth any lien or
liens disclosed on the lien record required by law to be maintained on the date
the certificate is issued.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 255, passed 2-13-1979)
§ 32.002 CERTIFICATE FEE.
   An applicant for a lien search shall pay a lien search fee in the amount of
$10 for each parcel for which a separate tax lot number has been assigned and
for which a search is requested.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 255, passed 2-13-1979)
§ 32.003 CITY LIABILITY.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation other than the party to whom the
certificate is directed and issued shall be entitled to rely upon any
information contained in a certificate of lien search issued in accordance with
this subchapter, and the city shall assume no responsibility and shall have no
liability to any third person as a result of any information contained in any
lien search certificate, nor shall the city be liable to any person who has
actual knowledge of notice of any lien, whether disclosed on the certificate or
otherwise, or who has suffered loss by his or her own negligence.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be no liability for any error in any certificate in
excess of the actual loss to the party to whom a certificate has been issued,
and, in any event, any liability shall be limited to the amount of any lien or
liens existing at the date of issuance of the certificate and erroneously
omitted from the certificate.
      (2)   In any case where the city shall be liable for damages as provided
for herein it shall, upon payment of such damage, become subrogated to all of
the rights of the damaged party and shall be entitled to an assignment of such
rights against any and all third parties that may be liable for such damage.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 255, passed 2-13-1979)
CITY CONTRACTS
§ 32.015 CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD AND CONTRACTING AGENCY.
   (A)   The City Council is designated as the local Contract Review Board
under the State Public Contracting Code, being O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and
279C.
   (B)   (1)   The Contract Review Board may, from time to time, delegate its
powers and responsibilities consistent with the State Public Contracting Code,
the Model Rules or this code.
      (2)   The City Administrator or his or her designated purchasing agent is
designated as the city’s contracting agency for purposes of contracting powers
and duties assigned to the city as a contracting agency under the State Public
Contracting Code or the Model Rules.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.016 ADOPTION OF STATE PROCEDURES AND MODEL RULES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided herein, public contracts shall be let
by the city according to the State of the State Public Contracting Code, being
O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C, including the Model Rules adopted by the
State Attorney General, as they now exist and as they may be amended in the
future, and this code.
   (B)   Definitions provided by the State Public Contracting Code or the Model
Rules shall apply to city procurement, except as may be specifically provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 32.16) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.017 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following classes of public contracts are hereby exempted from
competitive procurement:
   (A)   Any contract exempted by the State Public Contracting Code, being
O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C or Model Rules;
   (B)   Change orders or contract amendments that are reasonably related to
the scope of work under the original contract, up to $50,000. Change orders or
other amendments that increase the initial price of the contract by more than
$50,000 must be separately approved by the Contract Review Board;
   (C)   Contracts for the purchase of computer equipment and software, which
may be let after obtaining requests for quotations;
   (D)   Purchases through federal programs, pursuant to O.R.S. 279A.180;
   (E)   An emergency contract, provided that the Contracting Agency adheres to
the requirements of O.R.S. 279B.080 or 279C.335(5) and the Model Rules; and
   (F)   Any other contract (including sole source and brand name specification
contracts) where the public interest would be promoted by exempting the
contract from the competitive bidding process; provided, that the Contract
Review Board adheres to the Public Contracting Code and the Model Rules in
making the exemption.
(Prior Code, § 32.17) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.018 AUTHORITY OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee is authorized to:
   (A)   Enter into city contracts not to exceed $50,000 without additional
authorization of the Contract Review Board; and
   (B)   Recommend that the Contract Review Board approve or disapprove
contract awards in excess of $50,000 or change orders or amendments to
contracts that increase the initial price of the contract by more than $50,000.
(Prior Code, § 32.18) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.019 ELECTRONIC NOTICE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS.
   Notice of public improvement contracts may be published electronically where
the contracting agency finds that such publication is likely to be cost
effective, as provided in O.R.S. 279C.360.
(Prior Code, § 32.19) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.020 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Public improvement contracts estimated by the contracting agency not
to exceed $50,000 may be let by competitive quote under the following
procedures.
      (1)   The contracting agency shall informally solicit at least three
price quotes from prospective contractors. If three prospective contractors are
not available, then fewer quotes may be solicited, and the contracting agency
shall maintain records of the attempts to obtain quotes.
      (2)   The contracting agency shall award the contract to the prospective
contractor whose quote will best serve the interests of the city, taking into
account price and other applicable factors, such as experience, specific
expertise, availability, project understanding, contractor capacity and
contractor responsibility. If the contract is not awarded on the basis of the
lowest price, the contracting agency shall make a written record of the basis
for the award.
      (3)   A procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented to
qualify for the informal contract award procedures provided by this section.
      (4)   A public improvement contract let under this section may be amended
by change order as provided in §
32.017(B).
   (B)   Public improvement contracts in excess of $50,000 shall be let in
accordance with the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 279C.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.021 BID SECURITY AND PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   Except when waived or modified by the City Council, for public improvement
contracts of $50,000 or more, bids shall be accompanied by proper bid security
in an amount not less than 10% of the contractor’s bid price which shall be
retained by the city in the event the bidder who is awarded the contract fails
to promptly and properly execute the contract. Performance and payment bonds
shall be required in accordance with O.R.S. 279C.375 and 279C.380.
(Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.022 NEGOTIATION WITH BIDDERS.
   If bids are solicited for a public improvement contract, and all bids exceed
the budget for the project, the contracting agency may, prior to contract
award, negotiate for a price within the project budget under the following
procedures.
   (A)   Negotiations will begin with the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder. If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
begin negotiations with the second lowest responsive, responsible bidder and so
on.
   (B)   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost within the budgeted amount.
   (C)   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of the
project is significantly changed from the description in the original bid
documents.
   (D)   The contracting agency will adhere to the provisions of O.R.S.
279C.340 in applying this section.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.023 PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   Personal services contracts (other than personal services contracts for
architectural or engineering services) are subject to the rules established by
this section.
   (A)   (1)   Personal service contracts will be used to retain the services
of independent contractors, other than architects or engineers.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the employment of regular
city employees.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the City Administrator, all personal
service contracts shall require the contractor to defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the city, its officers, agents and employees against and from any and
all claims or demands for damages of any kind arising out of or connected in
any way with the contractor’s performance thereunder and shall include a waiver
of contractor’s right to O.R.S. 30.285 and 30.287 indemnification and defense.
   (C)   Unless otherwise approved by the City Administrator, city personal
service contracts shall contain a provision requiring the person or entity
providing the service to obtain and maintain liability insurance coverage in at
least the amount of the city’s tort liability limits, naming the city as an
additional named insured, during the life of the contract.
   (D)   All city personal service contracts shall contain all contract
provisions mandated by state law. These provisions may be incorporated in the
personal service contract by reference to state law, unless state law provides
otherwise.
   (E)   The following procedure shall be observed in the selection of personal
service contractors.
      (1)   For personal service contracts involving an anticipated fee of
$10,000 or less per annum, the City Administrator or his or her designee may
negotiate a contract for such services with any qualified contractor of his or
her selection.
      (2)   For personal service contracts involving an anticipated fee of more
than $10,000 per annum, the City Administrator or his or her designated officer
shall solicit at least three prospective contractors who shall appear to have
at least minimum qualifications for the proposed assignment, notify each
prospective contractor in reasonable detail of the proposed assignment and
determine the prospective contractor’s interest and ability to perform the
proposed assignment.
      (3)   The City Administrator may arrange for any or all interested
prospective contractors to be interviewed for the assignment by an appropriate
city employee or by an interview committee.
      (4)   Following a review of the qualifications and interview, where
conducted, of the interested prospective contractors, the City Administrator or
his or her designee shall select the prospective contractor and shall prepare a
personal service contract.
   (F)   The following criteria shall be considered in the evaluation and
selection of a personal service contractor:
      (1)   Specialized experience in the type of work to be performed;
      (2)   Capacity and capability to perform the work, including any
specialized services within the time limitations for the work;
      (3)   Educational and professional record, including past record of
performance on contracts with governmental agencies and private parties with
respect to cost control, quality of work, ability to meet schedules and
contract administration, where applicable;
      (4)   Availability to perform the assignment and familiarity with the
area in which the specific work is located, including knowledge of design or
techniques peculiar to it, where applicable; and
      (5)   Any other factors relevant to the particular contract.
   (G)   The selection procedures described in this section may be waived by
the City Administrator, at his or her discretion where an emergency exists that
could not have been reasonably foreseen and requires such prompt execution of a
contract to remedy the situation that there is not sufficient time to permit
utilization of the selection procedures.
   (H)   The City Administrator is delegated the authority to sign all personal
service contracts.
   (I)   The above provisions regarding selection procedures do not apply to
amendments, modifications, supplements or extensions to executed personal
service contracts which may be accomplished by means of direct negotiation with
the existing contractor.
   (J)   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the city from
complying with provisions of federal or state law that require the city to
utilize a different selection or contracting procedure.
(Prior Code, § 32.23) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.024 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Disposition of surplus personal property may be made, at the
discretion of the City Administrator or his or her designee, under provisions
of the State Public Contracting Code, being O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B and
279C, or the Model Rules, or under the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The City Administrator has the authority to determine when personal
property owned by the city is surplus to the needs of the city.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall select the method of disposal which
maximizes the value the city will realize from disposal of the surplus
property. Methods of disposal may include the following:
      (1)   Traded in on the purchase of replacement equipment or supplies;
      (2)   (a)   Sold at public auction advertised at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city area not less than one week prior
to the auction.
         (b)   The published notice shall specify the time, place and terms
upon which the personal property shall be offered and a general description of
the personal property to be sold;
      (3)   Sold at a fixed retail price if doing so is anticipated to result
in substantially greater net revenue to the city; or
      (4)   Sold in such other manner as may be provided by resolution of the
Council.
   (D)   (1)   All personal property sold pursuant to this section shall be
sold as-is without any warranty, either express or implied, of any kind,
including, but not limited to, warranties of title or fitness for any purpose.
      (2)   Upon receiving payment for the personal property from the
successful bidder, the person or company conducting the auction shall execute
an appropriate bill of sale, which shall recite that the sale is without
warranty, as provided in this division (D).
(Prior Code, § 32.24) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.025 CONFLICT WITH STATE PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE.
   In the event of a conflict between any provision of the State Public
Contracting Code, being O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C and this chapter,
the provisions of the State Public Contracting Code shall control.
(Prior Code, § 32.25) (Ord. 324, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 397, passed 2-14-2005)
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA RETAIL SALES TAX
§ 32.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Drain, Oregon.
   CONSUMER. A person who purchases, acquires, owns, holds or uses marijuana
items other than for the purpose of resale.
   MARIJUANA ITEM. Marijuana, cannabinoid products, cannabinoid concentrates
and cannabinoid extracts as defined in O.R.S. 475C.009(25).
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person listed under O.R.S. 475C.009(29) who sells
marijuana items to a consumer in the state.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships,
limited liability companies and joint stock companies.
   RETAIL SALE PRICE. The total consideration paid to a marijuana retailer for
a marijuana item by or on behalf of a consumer, excluding any tax.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator, the City Administrator’s designee
and/or another individual or entity designated by the city to collect the tax
on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.30) (Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016)
§ 32.041 TAX IMPOSED.
   The city hereby imposes a tax on each marijuana item sold to a consumer
within the city by a marijuana retailer. The City Council shall set the tax
rate by resolution; however, the tax rates adopted by the City Council shall
not exceed 3% of the retail sale price for each marijuana item sold. The tax
constitutes a debt owed by the consumer to the city and shall be extinguished
only by payment to the marijuana retailer or to the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.31) (Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016)
§ 32.042 COLLECTION.
   The consumer shall pay the tax to the marijuana retailer at the time of the
purchase or sale of the marijuana item. Every marijuana retailer shall collect
the tax from the consumer at the time of the sale of a marijuana item. The tax
collected by the marijuana retailer shall be held in trust by the marijuana
retailer for payment to the city. The marijuana retailer shall remit the tax to
the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to exercise all
supervisory and administrative powers with regard to the administration,
collection and enforcement of the tax authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.32) (Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.043 ACCOUNTING; RECORDS.
   (A)   Every marijuana retailer must keep and preserve, in a generally
accepted accounting format used for reporting revenue and taxes due on business
activity, detailed records of all sales made and all taxes collected. Every
marijuana retailer must keep and preserve such records for a period of six
years. The Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect all such records
at reasonable times.
   (B)   (1)   For purposes of determining the accuracy of any tax return or
for the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, the Tax Administrator may examine
any books, papers, records or memoranda bearing upon the marijuana retailer’s
tax returns, including copies of the marijuana retailer’s state and federal
income tax returns and copies of the marijuana retailer’s state marijuana tax
returns.
      (2)   All books, invoices and other records shall be made available
within the city for examination by the Tax Administrator during regular
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 32.33) (Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.044 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator may
appeal to the City Administrator by filing a notice of appeal with the Tax
Administrator within ten days of the date the notice of the decision is served
or mailed. The Tax Administrator shall fix a time and place for hearing the
appeal and shall give the appellant ten days’ written notice of the time and
place of the hearing.
   (B)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the City Administrator
under division (A) above may appeal to the Council by filing a notice of appeal
with the Tax Administrator within ten days of the date the City Administrator’s
decision is served or mailed.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall transmit the notice, together with the
file of the appealed matter, to the City Council, who shall fix a time and
place for hearing the appeal. The City Council shall give the appellant not
less than ten days’ written notice of the time and place of hearing the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 32.34) (Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016)
§ 32.045 REFUND.
   Whenever the amount of any tax imposed under this subchapter has been paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the Tax Administrator, it may be refunded, provided a verified claim in writing
therefor, stating the specific reason upon which the claim is founded, is filed
with the Tax Administrator within three years from the date of payment. The
claim shall be made on forms provided by the Tax Administrator. If the Tax
Administrator approves the claim, the excess amount collected or paid may be
refunded to, or may be credited on, any amounts then due and payable from, the
marijuana retailer from whom it was collected or by whom it was paid, and the
balance may be refunded to the marijuana retailer or the marijuana retailer’s
administrators, executors or assignees.
(Prior Code, § 32.35) (Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016)
§ 32.046 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, the city may enter
into an intergovernmental agreement authorized by O.R.S. 190.010, 190.110 or
305.620 for collection of the tax imposed by §
32.041.
   (B)   The City Council shall authorize by resolution any intergovernmental
agreement entered into pursuant to this section, after making a finding that
any collection, enforcement, appeal or refund procedures authorized by the
intergovernmental agreement are comparable to or provide greater protections to
marijuana retailers and to the public than the procedures set out in this
subchapter.
   (C)   If an intergovernmental agreement entered into pursuant to this
section is approved by City Council resolution, the tax collection and
enforcement procedures authorized by the intergovernmental agreement shall
govern collection of the tax imposed by §
32.041 as provided in the intergovernmental agreement.
(Prior Code, § 32.36) (Ord. 428, passed 12-12-2016)
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 32.060 PURPOSE; SCOPE; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt systems
development charges which impose a portion of the cost of capital improvements
for water, wastewater drainage and treatment, streets, flood control and parks
upon those developments that create a need for or increase the demands on
capital improvements.
   (B)   Scope. The systems development charge imposed by this subchapter is
separate from and in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge or fee
otherwise provided by law or imposed as a condition of development.
   (C)   Construction. The rules of statutory construction contained in O.R.S.
Chapter 174 are adopted and by this reference made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Facilities or assets used for:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment and distribution;
      (2)   Waste water collection, transmission, treatment and disposal;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
bike lanes and paths, street lights, traffic signs and signals, street trees,
public transportation, vehicle parking and bridges; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation, including, but not limited to, neighborhood
parks, community parks, public open space and trail systems, buildings, courts,
fields and other like facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Conducting a building or mining operation or making a physical
change in the use of a structure or land which increases the usage or demand
for usage of any capital improvement or which contributes to the need for
additional or enlarged capital improvement(s).
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
32.062.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or scenic or preservation purpose.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title or the purchaser or purchasers
under a recorded sales agreement, and other persons having an interest of
record in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that is occupied
or may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that includes
the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning, subdivision or other
development ordinances.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. A capital improvement that is:
      (1)    Required as a condition of residential development approval;
      (2)   Identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
32.066; and
      (3)   Not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land that is the
subject of the residential development approval.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for costs associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
32.062.
   SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee, or a
combination thereof, assessed or collected at the time of increased usage of a
capital improvement, at the time of issuance of a development permit for a
development as defined by this subchapter, or a building permit, or at the time
of connection to the capital improvement. SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE includes
that portion of a sewer or water system connection charge that is greater than
the amount necessary to reimburse the city for its average cost of inspecting
and installing connections with water and sewer facilities. SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
CHARGE does not include fees assessed or collected as part of a local
improvement district or a charge in lieu of a local improvement district
assessment, or the cost of complying with requirements or conditions imposed by
a land use decision.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.062 SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT CHARGE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Systems development charges shall be established and may be revised by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this subchapter or
other local or state law, a systems development charge is hereby imposed upon
all parcels of land within the city, and upon all lands outside the boundary of
the city that connect to or otherwise use the sewer facilities, storm sewers or
water facilities of the city.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.063 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The methodology used to establish the reimbursement fee shall consider
the cost of then-existing facilities, prior contribution by then-existing
users, the value of unused capacity, rate-making principals employed to finance
publicly owned capital improvements and other relevant factors identified by
the City Council. The methodology shall promote the objective that future
system users shall contribute no more than an equitable share of the cost of
then-existing facilities.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee shall consider
the cost of projected capital improvements needed to increase the capacity of
the system to which the fee is related.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee or the
reimbursement fee shall be contained in a resolution adopted by the City
Council.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.064 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with the systems for which the fees are assessed, including
expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness.
   (B)   (1)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing
capital improvements, including expenditures relating to repayment of future
debt for the improvements. An increase in system capacity occurs if a capital
improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by existing
facilities or provides new facilities. The portion of the improvements funded
by improvement fees must be related to demands created by development.
      (2)   A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
32.066.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, systems development
charge revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying with the
provisions of this subchapter, including the costs of systems development
charge methodologies and providing an annual accounting of systems development
charge expenditures.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.065 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   Systems development charge revenues shall not be expended for costs
associated with the construction of administrative office facilities that are
more than an incidental part of other capital improvements. Systems development
charge revenues shall not be expended for costs of the operation or routine
maintenance of capital improvements.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.066 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The City Council shall adopt a plan that:
   (a)   Lists the capital improvements that may be funded with improvement fee
revenues;
   (b)   Lists the estimated cost and time of construction of each improvement;
and
   (c)   Describes the process for modifying the plan.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.067 COLLECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   The systems development charge is payable upon issuance of:
      (1)   A building permit;
      (2)   A permit to connect to the water system; or
      (3)   A permit to connect to the sewer system.
   (B)   If no building development or connection permit is required, the
system development charge is payable at the time the usage of the capitol
improvement is increased.
   (C)   If development is commenced or connection is made to the water or
sewer system without an appropriate permit, the systems development charge is
immediately payable upon the earliest date that a permit was required.
   (D)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall collect the
applicable systems development charge from the owner of the parcel when a
permit that allows building or development of a parcel is issued or when a
connection to the water or sewer system to the city is made.
   (E)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall not issue a permit
or allow such connection until the charge has been paid in full, until
provision for installment payments have been made pursuant to §
32.069, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
32.070.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.068 DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARING.
   (A)   When, for any reason, the systems development charge has not been
paid, the City Administrator shall report to the City Council the amount of the
uncollected charge, the description of the real property to which the charge is
attributable, the date upon which the charge was due and unpaid and the name of
the owner.
   (B)   The City Council shall schedule a public hearing on the matter with
notice of the hearing given to each owner together with a copy of the City
Administrator’s report concerning the unpaid charge. Notice of the hearing
shall be given either personally or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by both mail and personal notice, and by posting notice on the
parcel at least ten days before the date set for the scheduled hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the City Council may accept, reject or modify the
determination of the City Administrator as set forth in the report. If the City
Council finds that a systems development charge is unpaid and uncollected, it
shall, by motion, direct the City Administrator to docket the unpaid and
uncollected systems development charge in the lien docket. Upon completion of
the docketing, the city shall have a lien against the described land for the
full amount of the unpaid charge, together with interest at the legal rate of
10% per annum and for the city’s actual cost of serving notice of the hearing
on the owners. The lien shall be enforceable in the manner provided in O.R.S.
Chapter 223.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.069 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   When a systems development charge of $100 or more is due and
collectible, the owner of the parcel of land subject to the charge may apply
for payment in 20 semi-annual installments, to include interest on the unpaid
balance, in accordance with the provisions of O.R.S. 223.208.
   (B)   The City Administrator or the designee shall provide application forms
for installment payments, which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest
the validity of the lien, except for correction of computational errors.
   (C)   An applicant for installment payments shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to grant the imposition of a lien on
the parcel and that the interest of the applicant is adequate to secure payment
of the lien.
   (D)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall report to the City
Office/Accounting Manager the amount of the systems development charge, the
date upon which the payments are due, the name of the owner(s) and a
description of the parcel.
   (E)   The City Office/Accounting Manager shall docket the lien in the lien
docket. From that time, the city shall have a lien on the property described
for the amount of the systems development charge, together with interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of 10% per annum. The lien shall be enforceable in
the manner provided in O.R.S. Chapter 223.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.070 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Structures and uses established and existing on or before the
effective date of this subchapter are exempt from a systems development charge
imposed by this subchapter, to the extent of the structure or use then existing
and to the extent of the parcel of land as it is constituted on that date.
   (B)   Additions or alterations which do not increase the floor space of a
structure, the land area occupied by the structure or do not constitute the
imposition of an increased use on the city’s water or sewer services are exempt
from all portions of the systems development charge.
   (C)   A project financed totally by city revenues is exempt from all
portions of the system development charge.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.071 CREDITS.
   (A)   A systems development charge shall be imposed when a change of use of
a parcel or structure occurs, but credit shall be given for the computed
systems development charge in an amount equal to what would otherwise be the
charges for the existing structure and use. The credit so computed shall not
exceed the calculated systems development charge. No refund shall be made on
account of such credit.
   (B)   A credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified public improvement
associated with a residential development. If a qualified public improvement is
located partially on and partially off the parcel that is subject to the
residential development approval, the credit shall be given only for the cost
of the portion of the improvement not located on or wholly contiguous to the
property. The credit provided for by this section shall be only for the
improvement fee charged for the type of improvement being constructed and shall
not exceed the improvement fee even if the cost of the capital improvement
exceeds the applicable improvement fee.
   (C)   Credits shall not be transferable from one type of capital improvement
to another.
   (D)   Credits shall not be transferable from one development to another.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.072 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a particular type of systems development charge
are to be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the city.
The portion of the systems development charge calculated and collected on
account of a specific facility system shall be used for no purpose other than
those set forth in §
32.064.
   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall provide the City
Council with an annual accounting, based on the city’s fiscal year, for systems
development charges showing the total amount of systems development charge
revenues collected for each type of facility and the projects funded from each
account.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.073 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person aggrieved by a decision required or permitted to be made
under the provisions of this subchapter who has been denied the privilege of
constructing or developing or a person challenging the propriety of an
expenditure of systems development charge revenues may appeal the decision to
the City Council by filing a written request with the City Office/Accounting
Manager within 15 days of the action appealed from describing with
particularity the matter which forms the basis for the appeal.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, an appeal of an
expenditure must be filed within two years of the date of the alleged improper
expenditure.
   (C)   Appeals of any other type required or permitted to be made by the City
Administrator under this subchapter must be filed within ten days of the date
of the decision.
   (D)   After providing notice to the appellant, the City Council shall
determine whether the City Administrator’s decision or the expenditure is in
accordance with this chapter and the provisions of O.R.S. 223.297 to 223.314
and may affirm, modify or overrule the decisions. If the City Council
determines that there has been an improper expenditure of system development
charge revenues, the City Council shall direct that a sum equal to the misspent
amount shall be deposited within one year to the credit of the account or fund
from which it was spent.
   (E)   Any legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the City
Council pursuant to §
32.063 shall not be filed later than 60 days after the adoption of the
methodology.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 32.074 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the water, sewage or drainage systems of the city
unless the appropriate systems development charges have been paid or the lien
or installment payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided below, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
32.040 through
32.046 shall have the following penalties.
      (1)   Any marijuana retailer who has not been granted an extension of
time for remittance of tax due and who fails to remit any tax imposed by §§
32.040 through
32.046 prior to delinquency shall pay a penalty of 10% of the amount of the tax
due in addition to the amount of the tax.
      (2)   Any marijuana retailer who has not been granted an extension of
time for remittance of tax due, and who fails to pay any delinquent remittance
on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the remittance
first becomes delinquent, shall pay a second delinquency penalty of 15% of the
amount of the tax due plus the amount of the tax and the 10% penalty first
imposed.
      (3)   If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under §§
32.040 through
32.046 is due to fraud or intent to evade the provisions of §§
32.040 through
32.046, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be added the amount of
the remittance due, in addition to the penalties stated in divisions (B)(1) and
(B)(2) above.
      (4)   In addition to the penalties imposed herein, any marijuana retailer
who fails to remit any tax imposed by §§
32.040 through
32.046 shall pay interest at the rate of 0.5% per month or fraction thereof,
without proration for portions of a month, on the amount of the tax due,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first becomes
delinquent, until paid.
      (5)   Every penalty imposed and any interest that accrues under the
provisions of §§
32.040 through
32.046 shall be merged with, and become a part of, the tax required to be paid.
   (C)   Violation of §
32.074 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000. Each separate connection
to a city system prohibited under the provisions of §
32.074 shall be a separate offense under the provisions of §§
32.060 through
32.074.
(Prior Code, § 32.99) (Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 427, passed 11-8-2016)
CHAPTER 33: IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
Section
Advanced Financed District
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Definitions
   
33.04   Applicability
   
33.05   Receipt of application
   
33.06   Direct analysis
   
33.07   Public hearing
   
33.08   Notification
   
33.09   Advanced financing resolution and agreement
   
33.10   Advanced finance reimbursement
   
33.11   Assessment of public property
Local Improvement District
   
33.25   Title
   
33.26   Definitions
   
33.27   Description of real property
   
33.28   Petition for formation
   
33.29   Plans and specifications
   
33.30   Assessing
   
33.31   Resolution
   
33.32   Notices
   
33.33   Prevention by remonstrances
   
33.34   Ordinance creating local improvement district
   
33.35   Assessment ordinance procedures
   
33.36   Lien recording; payments over time or by cash
   
33.37   Errors in assessment calculations
   
33.38   Authority to make reassessment
   
33.39   Basis for, amount and method of reassessment
   
33.40   Effect of reassessment; exceptions
   
33.41   Council resolution to reassess
   
33.42   Publication of notice of reassessment; contents
   
33.43   Personal notice to each owner; right to file objections
   
33.44   Hearing on objections; revision of reassessment
   
33.45   Reassessment ordinance
   
33.46   Lien docket entry; crediting prior payments
   
33.47   Right of purchaser at sale under prior assessment
   
33.48   Review of reassessment
   
33.49   Additional reassessment procedure; time limitation
   
33.50   Municipal bonds accepted as payment for assessment liens
   
33.51   Assessment of public property benefited by improvements
   
33.52   Public roads included in sidewalk improvement district; assessment on
benefited property
   
33.53   Parking and city improvements
   
33.54   Abandonment of proceedings
   
33.55   Curative provision
   
33.56   Special provisions for sanitary and storm sewers
   
33.57   Apportionment of local improvement district assessments
ADVANCED FINANCED DISTRICT
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “City of Drain Advanced Financed
District Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that:
      (1)   Orderly new development by providing methods to finance necessary
public improvements; and
      (2)   Necessary public improvements are installed concurrently with or
before, the new development occurs.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is also to allow the city to require
that new developments pay for installation costs of these necessary public
improvements, to assure that they are installed in accordance with the adopted
master plan, and to reimburse developers and/or the city for a share of costs
incurred if a development or improvement provides access to public improvements
for other benefiting property owners.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL COST. All direct or indirect costs incurred by the city in order to
deliver goods and services or to undertake a public improvement. The actual
cost of providing goods or services to a property or a property owner includes
the cost, or an allocated portion of the total amount of the actual cost, of
making a good or service available to the property owner, whether stated at a
minimum, fixed or variable amount. ACTUAL COST includes, but is not limited to,
the cost of labor, materials, attorneys’ fees, supplies, equipment rental,
property acquisition, permits, financing, engineering, administration,
reasonable program delinquencies, return on investment, required fees,
insurance, administration, accounting, depreciation, amortization, operation,
maintenance, repair or replacement and debt service, including debt service
payments or payments into reserve accounts for debt service and payments of
amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage requirements.
   ADVANCED FINANCING. A developer’s or the city’s payment for the installation
of one or more public improvements installed pursuant to this subchapter which
benefiting property owners may utilize upon reimbursing a proportional share of
the cost of such improvement.
   ADVANCED FINANCING AGREEMENT. An agreement between a developer and the city,
as authorized by the City Council, and executed by the manager, which agreement
provides for the installation of, and payment for, advance financed public
improvements and may, in such agreement, require such guarantee or guarantees
as the city deems best to protect the public and benefiting property owners,
and may make such other provisions as the Council determines necessary and
proper.
   ADVANCED FINANCING RESOLUTION. A resolution passed by the Council and
executed by the manager designating a public improvement to be an advance
financed public improvement and containing provisions for financial
reimbursement by benefiting property owners who eventually utilize the
improvement and such other provisions as determined in the best interest of the
public by the Council.
   BENEFITING PROPERTY OWNER. The free holder of record of the legal title to
real property which, by virtue of installation of an advance financed public
improvement, may be served, all or in part, by the same. Where such real
property is being purchased under a recorded land sales contract, then such
purchasers shall also be deemed owners.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
      (1)   The grading, graveling, paving or other surfacing of any street; or
opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the grade of or
constructing any street;
      (2)   The construction of sidewalks;
      (3)   The construction or upgrading of any storm drains;
      (4)   Water improvements;
      (5)   Sanitary sewer improvements; or
      (6)   Any other public improvement authorized by the Council.
   CITY. The City of Drain, Oregon.
   COUNCIL. The Drain City Council.
   DEVELOPER. The city, an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a
corporation, a subdivider, a partition of land or any other entity, without
limitation, who will bear, under the terms of this subchapter, the expenses of
construction, purchase installation or other creation of a public improvement.
   MANAGER. The City Recorder, City Manager or City Administrator of the City
of Drain.
   PROPORTIONAL SHARE. The amount of advanced financed reimbursement due from
the benefiting property owners calculated in accordance with §
33.10.
   RECORDER. The City Recorder, Clerk or other person or officer of the city
serving as a clerk of the city or performing clerical work of the city, or
other official or employee as the governing body of the city shall designate to
act as RECORDER.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   When a development is to occur at locations where approved
master planning documents show new public improvements, the Council may
condition its approval of subdivisions, land partitions and conditional use
permits to require that the customer enter into an advance financing agreement
when the Council deems such an agreement will best protect the public and
promote the general welfare of the city.
      (2)   The developer, at his or her option, may alternatively elect to be
reimbursed by negotiating with the city for reimbursement of added public
improvements, where provisions and funds for such negotiations exist, or by
completing the public improvement without reimbursement, or by a combination of
methods.
   (B)   In accordance with §
33.03, the City Council may determine that an advance financed public
improvement will best protect the public and promote the general welfare of the
city by ensuring orderly new development. In the absence of a development
application, the Council may, by motion, designate the city or other public
entity as the developer and direct the manager to prepare an advance financing
application.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.05 RECEIPT OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Council will receive applications at the city office, accompanied
by an application fee of $640, or such other amount and schedule that the city
may, from time to time, set by resolution for advance financed public
improvements. Applications shall also be accompanied by:
      (1)   Maps depicting tax lot and assessor’s information;
      (2)   An address list identifying affected adjacent properties and
owners;
      (3)   Engineering drawings approved by the Council;
      (4)   Project engineer’s cost estimate or actual cost in cases where the
improvement has been constructed; and
      (5)   Three independent bids or a project cost agreed upon by the
developer and the Council.
   (B)   The fee will be applied against the cost of administrative analysis of
the proposed advance financed public improvements, for the cost of notifying
the property owners and for recording costs. When the city or other public
entity is the developer, the Council shall by motion direct the manager to
submit the application to the city office without fee.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.06 DIRECT ANALYSIS.
   Upon receipt of the application for advance financed public improvements,
the manager or his or her designee shall make an analysis of the advance
financed public improvements and shall prepare a report to be submitted to the
Council for review, discussion and public hearing. Such report shall include
those items submitted as part of the application package identified above.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.07 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Within a reasonable amount of time after the manager has completed his or
her analysis, an informational public hearing shall be held in which all
parties and the general public shall be given the opportunity to express their
views and ask questions pertaining to the advance financed public improvement.
Since advance financed public improvements do not give rise to assessments, the
public hearing is for informational purposes only and is not subject to
mandatory termination due to remonstrances. The Council has the sole
discretion, after the public hearing, to decide whether or not an advance
financing resolution shall be passed.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.08 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Not less than ten or more than 30 days prior to any public hearing
being held pursuant to this section, the developer, all benefiting property
owners and the general public shall be notified of such hearing and the purpose
thereof. Public notice shall be accomplished by a written notice posted at the
city office and such other conspicuous locations as the Council may determine
to be appropriate, and by a written notice published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the community, once in either of two consecutive weeks prior to
the hearing.
   (B)   Notification of benefiting property owners shall also be accomplished
by regular mail or by personal service. If notification is accomplished by
mail, notice shall be made on the date that the letter of notification is
posted. Failure of any owner to be so notified shall not invalidate or
otherwise affect any advance financing resolution or the Council’s action to
approve or not approve the same.
(Prior Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.09 ADVANCED FINANCING RESOLUTION AND AGREEMENT.
   After the public hearing held pursuant to §§
33.07 and
33.08, if the Council desires to proceed with an advance financed public
improvement, it shall pass an advanced financing resolution accordingly. The
resolution shall designate the improvement as an advance financed public
improvement and provide for advance financed reimbursement by benefiting
property owners pursuant to this subchapter. When the developer is a private
developer, the Council will enter into an agreement between the developer and
the city pertaining to the advance financed public improvement and may, in such
an agreement, require such guarantee or guarantees as the city deems best to
protect the public and benefiting property owners, and may make such other
provisions as the Council determines necessary and proper.
(Prior Code, § 33.09) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.10 ADVANCED FINANCE REIMBURSEMENT.
   An advance financed reimbursement is imposed on all benefiting property
owners at such time as the owners apply for access or connection to the advance
financed public improvement or apply for building permits for projects that
utilize an advance financed public improvement.
   (A)   Rates. Benefiting property owners shall pay advance financed
reimbursement as calculated by the use of any method of appointing the actual
cost, or estimated actual cost, to be assessed is just and reasonable among the
properties determined to be specifically benefited and consistent with the
state Constitution and state laws.
      (1)   If the advance financed public improvement was completed by the
city, the reimbursement to the city shall be the total cost of the improvement
increased by 7% annual simple interest (or such other interest rate as the
Council may, from time to time, set by resolution), including the use of:
         (a)   Any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of the
advanced finance district boundaries consistent with the benefits derived;
         (b)   The use of any method of appointing the actual cost among the
properties to be specifically benefited which is just and reasonable; and
         (c)   If, in the opinion of the Council, there is a general public
benefit which will result from the public improvement, or when the Council
otherwise believes it to be just and reasonable, the city may contribute funds
towards the local improvement.
      (2)   If the advance financed public improvement was completed without
the issuance of debt by the city, the reimbursement to the city shall be up to
the total cost of the improvement increased by the interest rate, as set forth
above, multiplied by a percentage of front footage owned by benefiting property
owners of the total front footage of the advance financed public improvement.
      (3)   Advanced financing reimbursement for odd-shaped lots shall be
individually established and consistent with the benefit received by the lots
in the area. If inequities are created through the strict implementation of the
above formulas, the Council may modify its impact on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   Collection. The advance financed reimbursement is immediately due and
payable by benefiting property owners upon their application for connection to
an advance financed public improvement or any building permit, the result of
which will utilize any advance financed public improvement. If connection is
made or construction commenced without the above-mentioned permits, then the
advance financed reimbursement is immediately due and payable upon the earliest
date that any such permit was required.
      (1)   No permit for connection shall be issued until the advance financed
reimbursement is paid in full or otherwise processed in accordance with this
subchapter. Whenever the full and correct advance financed reimbursement is due
and has not been paid and collected for any reason, the manager shall report to
the Council the amount of the uncollected reimbursement, the description of the
real property to which the reimbursement is attributable, the date upon which
the reimbursement was due and the name or names of the benefiting property
owners.
      (2)   The Council, by motion, shall then set a public hearing and shall
direct the manager to give notice of the hearing to each of those benefiting
property owners, together with a copy of the manager’s report concerning the
unpaid reimbursement, either in person or by certified mail. At the public
hearing, the Council may accept, reject or modify the manager’s report; and, if
it finds that any reimbursement is unpaid and uncollected, the Council, by
motion, may direct the city officer to record the unpaid and uncollected
reimbursement in the county record of liens.
      (3)   Upon completion of the recording, the city shall have a lien
against the described land for the full amount of the unpaid advance financed
reimbursement, interest and the city’s actual cost of serving notice upon the
benefiting property owners. The lien shall be enforced in the manner provided
by O.R.S. Chapter 223.
   (C)   Payment installments. Whenever an advance financed reimbursement is
due and collectable, the benefiting property owner may, as an option to paying
the charge in full, apply for payment installments in the manner provided for
in O.R.S. 223.205 through 223.295 using forms provided at the city office.
   (D)   Disposition of advance financed reimbursements. Developers shall
receive advance financed reimbursements collected by the city pertaining to
their respective advance financed public improvements. Such reimbursement shall
be delivered to the developer for a period of 20 years from the date of the
applicable advance financing agreement has been executed. Such reimbursement
will be made by the city within 90 days of receipt of the advance financed
reimbursements. Advance financed reimbursements not paid the developer under
the terms of this subchapter shall be retained by the city to be used for
related system improvements as authorized from time to time by the Council.
   (E)   Recording. All advance financed resolutions shall be recorded by the
city in the deed records of the county. Such resolutions shall identify full
legal descriptions of the benefiting properties. Failure to make such
recordings shall not affect the legality of an advance financing resolution or
agreement.
   (F)   Public improvements. Public improvements installed pursuant to advance
financing agreements shall become and remain the sole property of the city
pursuant to the advance financing agreements and advance financed
reimbursement, not paid to the developer during the ten-year period, as set
forth in division (E) above, shall be paid to the city to be used for related
system improvements as authorized from time to time by the Council.
   (G)   Multiple public improvements. More than one public improvement may be
the subject of an advanced financing agreement or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.11 ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever all or any part of the cost of public improvements is to be
assessed as the property benefited thereby, benefited property owned by the
city, county, school district, state and any political subdivision thereof
shall be assessed in the same manner as private property. The amount of the
assessment shall be paid by the city, school district, county or state, as the
case may be; provided, that the cost of the improvements are, in any given
case, of the type that may be bonded under this subchapter.
   (B)   In the case of property owned by the state, the amount of the
assessment shall be certified by the manager and filed with the State Executive
Department as a claim for reference to the Legislative Assembly in the manner
provided by state law unless funds for the payment of the assessment have
otherwise been provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 364, passed 4-14-1997)
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
§ 33.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “City of Drain Local Improvement
District.”
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL COSTS. All direct or indirect cost incurred by the city in order to
deliver goods and services or to undertake a capital construction project. The
ACTUAL COST of providing goods or services to a property or a property owner
includes the cost, or an allocated portion of the total amount of the actual
cost, of making a good or service available to the property owner, whether
stated at a minimum, fixed or variable amount. ACTUAL COST includes, but is not
limited to, the cost of labor, materials, attorneys’ fees, supplies, equipment
rental, property acquisition, permits, financing, engineering, administration,
reasonable program delinquencies, return on investment, required fees,
insurance, administration, accounting, depreciation, amortization, operation,
maintenance, repair or replacement and debt service, including debt service
payments or payments into reserve accounts for debt service and payments of
amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage requirements.
   ASSESSMENT FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENT. Any fee, charge or assessment that does
not exceed the actual costs incurred by the city for design, construction and
financing of a local improvement.
   BOND INDEBTEDNESS. Any formally executed written agreement representing a
promise by the city to pay to another a specific sum of money, at a specified
date or dates at least one year in the future.
   CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION. The construction, modification, replacement, repair,
remodeling or renovation of a structure, or addition to a structure, which is
expected to have useful life of more than one year and includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Acquisition of land, or a legal interest in land, in conjunction
with the capital construction of a structure;
      (2)   Acquisition and or installation of machinery or equipment,
furnishings or materials which will become an integral part of a structure;
      (3)   Activities related to capital construction, such as planning,
design, acquisition of interim or permanent financing, research, land use and
environmental impact studies, acquisition of permits or licenses or other
services connected with construction; and/or
      (4)   Acquisition of existing structures, or legal interest in
structures, in conjunction with the capital construction.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
      (1)   The grading, graveling, paving or other surfacing of any street; or
opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the grade of or
constructing any street;
      (2)   The construction of sidewalks;
      (3)   The construction or upgrading of any storm drains;
      (4)   Water improvements;
      (5)   Sanitary sewer improvements; or
      (6)   Any other public improvement authorized by the Council.
   CITY. The City of Drain, Oregon.
   CITY STAFF. The use of contracted consultants and engineers as may be
required.
   COUNCIL. The Drain City Council.
   ESTIMATED ASSESSMENT.
      (1)   With respect to each property to be assessed in connection with a
local improvement, the total assessment that, at the time of giving notice of
the assessment and the right to object or remonstrate, the city estimates will
be levied against the property following completion of the local improvements.
The estimate shall be based on the city’s estimate at the time of the actual
cost of the local improvement and the proposed formula of apportioning the
actual cost to the property.
      (2)   ESTIMATED ASSESSMENTS shall be determined by excluding from the
actual cost the cost of financing associated with any bonds issued to
accommodate payments or installments.
   EXEMPT BONDED INDEBTEDNESS. With respect to each property to be assessed in
connection with a local improvement, the total amount which will be levied
against the property following completion of the local improvement. EXEMPT
BONDED INDEBTEDNESS also includes bonded indebtedness authorized by specific
provision of the state Constitution; and bonded indebtedness incurred, or to be
incurred for capital construction or capital improvements that is issued as a
general obligation of the city after November 6, 1990, with the approval of the
electors of the city; and bonded indebtedness incurred or to be incurred for
capital constructions or capital improvements that is issued as a general
obligation of the city after November 6, 1990, with the approval of the
electors of the city.
   FINAL ASSESSMENT. With respect to each property to be assessed in connection
with a local improvement, the FINAL ASSESSMENT shall comprise of the total
amount levied against the property following completion of the local
improvement. The total assessment shall be based on the actual cost of the
local improvement and the formula for apportioning the actual cost to the
property.
   FINANCING. All cost necessary or attributable to acquiring and preserving
interim or permanent financing of a local improvement.
      (1)   The cost of FINANCING may include the salaries, wages and benefits
payable to the employees of the city for work performed in connection with the
financing of a local improvement or any part thereof. However, as a condition
to inclusion of salaries, wages or benefits payable to employees of the city as
financing the cost of a local improvement, or any part thereof, the city shall
establish a record keeping system to track the actual work done or services
performed by each employee in connection with a local improvement.
      (2)   Financing costs that are incurred after the levy of a final
assessment may be included in the final assessment based on the city’s
reasonable estimate of the financing cost.
   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT. A capital construction project or, part of a capital
construction project, undertaken by the city pursuant to the procedure of
forming local assessments on properties benefited, in whole or in part, from
the local improvement:
      (1)   Which provides a special benefit only to specific properties or
rectifies a problem caused by specific properties;
      (2)   The cost of which are assessed against those properties in a single
assessment upon the completion of the project;
      (3)   For which the payment of the assessment plus the appropriate
interest may be spread over a period of at least ten years by the property
owner;
      (4)   The total of all assessments for a local improvement shall not
exceed the actual cost incurred by the city in design, constructing and
financing the project; and
      (5)   The status of capital construction project as a local improvement
is not impacted by the accrual of a general benefit to properties located
outside an improvement district as opposed to the specific benefit of
properties located within an improvement district.
   LOT. Lot, block or parcel of land.
   MANAGER. The City Administrator of the City of Drain or the Administrator’s
designee.
   OWNER. The owner of the title to real property, or the contract purchaser of
real property of record, as shown on the last available complete assessment
roll in the office of the County Assessor.
   PROPERTY BENEFITED. All property specifically benefited by a local
improvement district. The relative extent of such benefit is to be determined
by any just and reasonable method of apportionment of all or a portion of the
total cost of the improvement between properties determined to be specifically
benefited.
   RECORDER. The Recorder, Clerk or other person or officer of the city serving
as a clerk of the city or performing clerical work of the city, or other
official or employee as the governing body of the city shall designate to act
as RECORDER.
   SINGLE ASSESSMENT. The complete assessment process, including pre-
assessment, assessment or reassessment, for any authorized local improvement
which provides the procedure to be followed in making local assessments for
benefits from a local improvement upon which have been benefited by all or part
of the improvement.
   SPECIAL BENEFIT ONLY TO SPECIFIC PROPERTIES. The same meaning as “special
and peculiar benefit” as that term is used in O.R.S. 223.389.
   STRUCTURE. Any temporary or permanent building or improvement to real
property of any kind, which is constructed of or attached to real property,
whether above or beneath the surface.
   TREASURER. The city official, however designated, charged by law with the
responsibility for acting as custodian of and investment officer for the public
moneys of the city.
   TRUE CASH VALUE. In determining TRUE CASH VALUE of taxable property for the
purpose of calculating the amount of indebtedness which may be incurred by the
state or local government under the state Constitution or laws of the state,
“the real market value” as defined in § 11b(2)(a), Article XI of the state
Constitution, may be used if and to the extent that the “real market value”
does not exceed the TRUE CASH VALUE.
(Prior Code, § 33.21) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.27 DESCRIPTION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   In levying, collecting and enforcing assessments for local improvement, the
following shall apply.
   (A)   Real property may be described by giving the subdivision according to
the United States survey when coincident with the boundaries thereof, or by
lots, blocks and addition names or by giving the boundaries thereof by metes
and bounds, or by reference to the book and page of any public record of the
county where the description may be found, or by designation of tax lot number
referring to a record kept by the assessor of descriptions of real properties
of the county, which record shall constitute a public record, or in the manner
as to cause the description to be capable of being made certain. Initial
letters, abbreviations, figures, fractions and exponents, to designate the
township, range, section or part of a section, or the number of any lot or
block or part thereof, or any distance, course bearing or direction, may be
employed in any description of real property.
   (B)   If the owner of any land is unknown, the land may be assessed as
“unknown owner” or “unknown owners.” If the property is correctly described, no
final assessment shall be invalidated by a mistake in the name of the owner of
the real property assessed or by the omission of the name of the owner or the
entry of a name other than that of the true owner. Where the name of the owner,
or the owner of record, of any parcel of real property is given, the final
assessment shall not be held invalidated on account of any error or
irregularity in the description if the description would be sufficient in a
deed of conveyance from the owner, or is such that, in a suit to enforce a
contract to convey, employing such description would, in a court of equity, be
held to be good and sufficient.
   (C)   Any description of real property which conforms substantially to the
requirements of this section shall be as sufficient a description in all
proceedings of assessment relating or leading to a final assessment for a local
improvement foreclosure and sale of delinquent assessments, and in any other
proceeding related to or connected with levying, collecting and enforcing final
assessments for special benefits to the property.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.28 PETITION FOR FORMATION.
   The formation of a local improvement district may be initiated by petition
submitted to the City Recorder. All petitions must be submitted on forms
provided by the city.
   (A)   Prior to circulating a petition, a chief petitioner must be identified
on forms provided by the city.
   (B)   The chief petitioner shall agree to pay a fee of $640, or such other
amount and schedule that the city may, from time to time, set by resolution for
advance financed public improvements.
   (C)   All plans and specifications, as outlined in §
33.29, shall be filed with the City Recorder before the circulation of the
petition.
   (D)   All plans and specifications filed with the City Recorder must be
attached to the petition prior to circulation and made available for public
viewing at the City Hall during all regular business hours.
   (E)   After a petition has been circulated and submitted to the City
Recorder, the city shall have 90 days to complete the activities outlined in §§
33.30 and
33.31.
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.29 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall determine to proceed, upon its own motion
or upon the petition of the owners equal to one-half of the property that
benefits specifically form the improvement, to make any street, sewer,
sidewalk, drain, water line or other public improvement to be paid for in whole
or in part by a special assessment according to the benefits, then the Council
shall, by motion, direct city staff to make a report for such a project.
   (B)   Unless the Council shall direct otherwise, such report shall contain
the following matters:
      (1)   A description of the local improvement proposed;
      (2)   Preliminary plans and outlined specifications for such local
improvement;
      (3)   A description of the boundaries of the proposed local improvement
district;
      (4)   A just and reasonable method for apportioning the actual cost of
the local improvement to the properties benefited;
      (5)   A list of the properties benefited for such local improvement,
including the name of the owner of each property benefited, and the address of
such owners; the assessed valuation of each property adjusted in accordance
with state law; and a statement of the amount of outstanding assessments
against any property proposed to be assessed for the improvement;
      (6)   The estimated actual cost of the local improvement;
      (7)   The estimated proportionate actual cost of the local improvement to
be assessed to each benefited property;
      (8)   The estimated portion of the actual cost of the improvement to be
borne by city funds, if any; and
      (9)   This report shall be filed with the office of the Recorder when
completed and available for public inspection during all regular business
hours.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.30 ASSESSING.
   The Council shall consider the following in assessing cost of the local
improvement:
   (A)   The use of any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of
the local improvement district boundaries consistent with the benefits derived,
the state Constitution and state law;
   (B)   The use of any method of apportioning the actual cost among the
properties to be specifically benefited which is just and reasonable and
consistent with the state Constitution and state laws;
   (C)   Payment by the city of all or any portion of the actual cost or
estimated actual cost of any improvement. If, in the opinion of the Council,
there is a general public benefit which will result from the public
improvement, or when the Council otherwise believes it to be just and
reasonable, the city may contribute funds towards the local improvement; and
   (D)   Other available means of financing the estimated actual cost of the
local improvement, including federal or state grants-in-aid, sewer services or
other types of services or charges, revenue bonds, general obligation bonds or
other legal means of finance. In the event any of such other means of finance
are used, the Council may, in its discretion, levy assessments for local
improvement districts hereunder according to benefits to cover any part of the
cost, subject to the constraints of the state Constitution and state laws, of
the local improvement not covered by such means.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.31 RESOLUTION.
   (A)   After the staff report has been filed with the city, and after the
Council has examined such report and found the report to be satisfactory, and
the estimated cost thereof to be reasonable and just, and after having found
the boundaries of such improvements district to be properly determined, the
Council may, by resolution, propose to make such an improvement and create a
local improvement district. Unless those persons representing at least two-
thirds of the proposed estimated assessment within said local improvement
district file with the City Recorder a written objection and remonstrance
against such proposed local improvement district prior to the public hearing or
within seven days following the public hearing, the Council may proceed to
order the formation of the local improvement district as proposed in the plans
and specifications previously adopted or as may be amended by the Council
following the heating. Any such objection or remonstrance shall state the
grounds for such objections or remonstrance.
   (B)   The resolution shall:
      (1)   State the boundaries of such local improvement district;
      (2)   State the proposed method of apportioning the estimated actual cost
(estimated assessments) of the local improvement among the property owners;
      (3)   State the portion of the estimated actual cost, if any, which the
city shall pay;
      (4)   State that such portion of the estimated actual cost (estimated
assessment) which are assessed to the property owners shall be a charge and a
lien upon the properties benefited;
      (5)   State the time and the place of the public hearing to consider
public comments and objections to the proposed local improvement district; and
      (6)   Direct the Recorder to provide notice of said hearing as required
by state law which shall state that the Council shall hear and consider
objections or remonstrances to the proposed improvement by any parties
aggrieved thereby. The notice shall state that the Council, by resolution, has
proposed to create a local improvement district and include the following.
 
   “Unless those persons representing at least two-thirds of the proposed
estimated assessment within said local improvement district file with the City
Recorder a written objection and remonstrance against such proposed local
improvement district prior to the public hearing or within seven days following
the public hearing, the Council may proceed to order the formation of the local
improvement district as proposed in the plans and specifications previously
adopted or as may be amended by the Council following the hearing. Any such
objection or remonstrance shall state the grounds for such objections or
remonstrance.”
 
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.32 NOTICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Recorder shall also notify the owner of each lot proposed to
be assessed by registered or certified mail, or by personal delivery of the
amount of the estimated assessment proposed for that property, the date by
which time objections shall be filed with the Recorder and that any such
objection shall state the grounds for the objection.
      (2)   Notices shall be mailed no less than ten days prior to the date
set.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a notice is required to be sent to the owner or a lot
affected by a proposed assessment such notice shall be addressed to the owner
or his or her agent. If the address of the owner or his or her agent is unknown
to the Recorder, the Recorder shall mail the notice addressed to the owner or
his or her agent in the city where such property is located.
      (2)   Any mistake, error, omission or failure with respect to such
mailing shall not be jurisdictional or invalidate the assessment proceedings,
but there shall be no foreclosure or legal action to collect until notice has
been given by personal service upon the property owner or, if personal service
cannot be had, then by publication once a week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.33 PREVENTION BY REMONSTRANCES.
   If, no later than seven days following the public hearing, those persons
representing two-thirds or more of the proposed assessment within the proposed
local improvement district file with the Recorder a written objection or
remonstrance against the proposed improvement, such remonstrance shall be a bar
to any further proceeding in the making of such improvement for the period of
six months.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.34 ORDINANCE CREATING LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   After the public hearing and the time for filing remonstrances, if the local
improvement district has not been objected to by those persons representing
two-thirds of the proposed assessment, the Council may provide for the creation
of the local improvement district by ordinance. This subchapter shall describe
the improvement(s) to be made and the boundary of the local improvement
district. The ordinance shall also provide that the estimated assessments
against the properties benefited shall be charges and liens against the
property. The city may enforce collection of such assessments as provided by
state law.
   (A)   Adoption process. In creating the local improvement ordinance, the
Council shall consider the objections or remonstrances made and the reasons
stated for them. The Council may adopt, correct, modify or revise the proposed
assessment or estimated assessments to be charged against each lot within the
district according to the special and peculiar benefits accruing thereto from
the improvement and shall by ordinance spread the assessments. The estimated
assessment lien shall continue until the time the estimated assessments become
a final assessment.
   (B)   Plans. The ordinance shall also direct staff to have detailed plans
and specifications of the local improvement prepared and that, when
appropriate, the city solicit bids for construction of the local improvement
pursuant to §§
32.015 through
32.025.
(Prior Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.35 ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE PROCEDURES.
   If the City Council determines that the local improvement district shall be
created, the Council shall provide for the assessment or estimated assessment
of the benefited properties and for the apportionment of the assessment or
estimated assessment to the individual lots within the local improvement
district by ordinance by one of the following: actual cost of the local
improvement, the estimated actual cost of the local improvement.
   (A)   Notice. The Recorder shall prepare the assessment or the estimated
assessment to the respective lots within the assessment district and file it
with the appropriate city office.
      (1)   Notice of such assessment or estimated assessment shall be mailed
or personally delivered to the owner of each lot proposed to be assessed, which
notice shall state the amount of the assessment or the estimated assessment
proposed on that property and shall fix a date by which time objections and the
grounds for objections shall be filed with the Recorder.
      (2)   Any objection shall state the grounds thereof. The City Council
shall consider such objections and may adopt, correct, modify or revise the
proposed assessments and shall determine the amount of the assessment to be
charged against each lot within the district, according to the special and
peculiar benefits accruing thereto from the improvement, and shall by ordinance
spread the assessments.
   (B)   Actual cost. In determining the assessment or the estimated
assessments for the local improvement, the Council shall use the actual cost as
defined in this subchapter.
   (C)   Lien. The assessment ordinance shall provide that the assessments or
estimated assessments against the benefited properties shall be a lien against
the assessed properties and that the city may enforce collection of such
assessment as provided by state law.
   (D)   Estimated cost. If the initial assessment has been made on the basis
of the estimated actual cost and, upon the completion of work, the cost is
found to be greater or less than the estimated cost, the Council shall make an
assessment for the corrected actual cost. Proposed assessments upon the
respective lots within the assessment district for the proportionate share of
the change shall be made; and notices shall be sent; opportunity for objection
shall be given; such objections shall be considered; and determination of the
assessment against each particular lot, block or parcel of land shall be made
as in the case of the estimated assessment; and the assessment spread by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.36 LIEN RECORDING; PAYMENTS OVER TIME OR BY CASH.
   If the city has proceeded to cause any local improvement to be constructed
or made within the corporate limits of the city and has determined the final
assessment for the local improvement against the property benefited thereby, or
liable therefor, according to applicable law, the city shall cause notice of
the final assessment to be published. The notice shall identify the local
improvement for which the assessment is to be made, each lot to be assessed and
the final assessment for each lot. In addition, the notice shall state that the
owner of any property to be assessed shall have the right to make application
to the city for payment of the final assessment in installments as provided in
this subchapter. A copy of the notice shall be mailed or personally delivered
to the owner of each lot to be assessed.
   (A)   The owner of any property to be assessed, at any time within ten days
after notice of final or estimated assessment is first published, may file with
the Recorder a written application to pay:
      (1)   The whole of the final or estimated assessment installments; or
      (2)   If part of the final estimate has been paid, the unpaid balance of
the final assessment in installments.
   (B)   At the option of the city, an installment application may be filed
after the notice of the final assessment has been published.
      (1)   The installment application shall state that the applicant does
thereby waive all irregularities or defects, jurisdictional or otherwise, in
the proceedings to cause the local improvement district for which the final
assessment is levied and in apportionment of the actual cost of the local
improvement.
      (2)   The application shall provide that the applicant agrees to pay the
final or established assessment over a period not less than ten years nor more
than 30 years and according to such terms as the city may provide. The city may
provide that the owner of the assessed property may elect to have the final
assessment payable over a period of less than ten years and according to the
terms as the city may provide.
      (3)   The application shall also provide that the applicant acknowledges
and agrees to pay interest at the rate provided by the city on all unpaid
assessments, together with the amount, determined by the city, sufficient to
pay a proportionate part of the cost of administering the bond assessment
program and in issuing the bonds authorized under O.R.S. 223.235, including,
but not limited to, legal, printing and consultants’ fees.
      (4)   The application shall also contain a statement, by lots or blocks
or other convenient description, of the property of the applicant assessed for
the improvement.
   (C)   In connection with the final assessments for any local improvement,
the city shall establish a procedure by which an owner of any property to be
assessed may irrevocably elect in writing to have the final or estimated
assessment levied for a number of years less than ten, which shall be
determined by the city. The written election shall: be signed by the owner or a
duly authorized representative of the owner; contain a description of the
assessed property and the local improvement for which the assessment is being
made; and contain a statement by the owner acknowledging that the improvement
for the local improvement as described in this subchapter, that the payment of
final assessment against the properties benefited by the local improvement plus
interest may be spread over at least ten years and that, notwithstanding any
provision of law, the owner consents to make payments over a period of less
than ten years and to have the assessment levied on the benefited property
accordingly.
   (D)   The election of this section shall be recorded in the lien docket for
the local improvement to which the assessment relates. From and after the time
at which the written election is so recorded, it shall be valid and binding
upon all subsequent owners of the property thereof.
   (E)   When the lien docket is made up, as provided in O.R.S. 223.230, as to
the final assessments for any local improvement, the city shall by ordinance or
resolution authorize the issue of its bonds pursuant to the applicable
provisions of O.R.S. 287A.050.
   (F)   The bond authorized to be issued under this section shall be issued in
an amount equal to the unpaid balance of all final assessments for the related
local improvements, including the amounts necessary to fund any debt service
reserve and to pay any other financing cost associated with the bonds.
   (G)   If the question of the issuance of the specific bonds has been
approved by the electors of the city, and the bonds are issued as general
obligation bonds, the city shall each year assess, levy and collect a tax on
all taxable property within its boundaries. The amount of the tax shall be
sufficient to pay all principle of and interest on the bonds that are due and
payable in that year and to replenish any debt service reserves required for
the bonds. In computing the amount of taxes to impose, the city shall deduct
from the total amount otherwise required the amount of final installment
payments which are pledged to the payment of the bonds and which are due and
payable in that year and shall add to this net amount the amount of reasonably
anticipated delinquencies in the payments of the installments or the taxes.
      (1)   The taxes shall be levied in each year and returned to the county
officer whose duty it is to amend the tax role within the time and manner
provided in O.R.S. 310.060.
      (2)   The taxes shall become payable at the same time and be collected by
the officer who collects county taxes and shall be turned over to the city
according to law.
      (3)   The county officer whose duty it is to extend the county levy shall
extend the levy of the city in the same manner as city taxes are extended.
Property shall be subject to sale for nonpayment of the taxes levied by the
city in like manner and with like effect as in the case of county and state
taxes.
   (H)   If the question of the issuance of the specific bonds has not been
approved by the electors of the city and the bonds are issued as limited tax
obligation bonds, the city may, subject only to the limitations of § 11b(1),
Article M of the state Constitution, calculate, assess, levy and collect tax on
all taxable property within its boundaries in the manner provided in this
subchapter. The amount of the tax shall be sufficient to pay all principle of
and interest on such bonds which is due and payable in that year and to
replenish any debt service reserves required for such bonds; provided, that if
such bonds are issued as limited tax obligation bonds the amount of such tax
shall not exceed the amount permitted under § 11b(1), Article M of the state
Constitution.
   (I)   All bond issued pursuant to this section, including general obligation
bonds, shall be secured by and be payable from the installments of final
assessment with respect to which the bonds were issued.
      (1)   In the ordinance or resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds,
the city may provide that all installments of final assessments be levied with
respect to two or more local improvements shall secure a single issue bonds,
and reserve the right to pledge, as security for any bonds thereafter issued
pursuant to this section, any installments of final assessments previously
pledged as security for other bonds issued pursuant to this section.
      (2)   (a)   All bonds shall be secured by a lien on the installments of
final assessments with respect to which they were issued. The lien shall be
valid, binding and fully perfected from the date of issuance of the bonds. The
installments of the final assessments shall be immediately subject to the lien
without the physical delivery thereof, the filing of any notice or any further
act.
         (b)   The lien shall be valid, binding and fully perfected against all
persons having claims of any kind against the governmental unit or the property
assessed whether in tort, contract or otherwise and irrespective of whether
such persons have notice of lien.
   (J)   As additional security for any bonds issued under this section,
including general obligation bonds, the city may pledge or mortgage, or grant
security interests in, its revenues, assets and properties and otherwise secure
and enter into covenants with respect to the bonds, as provided in state law.
   (K)   The city shall have the power, at any time and from time to time after
the undertaking of a local improvement has been authorized, to borrow money and
issue and sell notes for the purpose of providing interim financing for the
actual cost of the improvement.
      (1)   Notes authorized under this division (K) may be issued in a single
series for the purpose of providing interim financing for two or more local
improvements.
      (2)   Notes authorized under this division (K) shall mature not later
than one year after the date upon which the city expects to issue bonds for the
purpose of providing permanent financing with respect to installment payments
of the final assessments for the local improvements.
      (3)   Any notes authorized under this division (K) may be refunded from
time to time by the issuance of additional notes or out of the proceeds of
bonds issued pursuant to this section. The notes may be made payable from the
proceeds of any bonds to be issued under this section to provide permanent
financing from any other sources from which bonds are payable.
      (4)   The city may pledge the payment of bonds authorized to be issued
under this section with respect to the local improvements for which the notes
provide interim financing.
   (L)   The city may create, within the Bancroft Bond Redemption Fund
maintained by the city as required by O.R.S. 223.285, separate accounts for
separate issues of bonds or notes issued, as provided in O.R.S. 223.235, and
may pledge any amounts deposited in the separate accounts to specific issues of
bonds or notes without pledging the amounts to any other issues of such bonds
or notes.
   (M)   The installments due and payable under an assessment contract shall be
due and payable periodically as the city shall determine but shall not be due
and payable over a term in excess of 30 years. Each installment is due and
payable with interest as described under division (O) below.
   (N)   The installments and interest are payable to the city by the property
owner whose application to pay the cost of the local improvement by
installments has been provided in O.R.S. 223.210.
   (O)   The amount of each installment (percentage of the total final
assessment) shall be determined by the city and shall be as appears by bond
lien docket described in O.R.S. 223.230. Each installment shall be due and
payable with the accrued and unpaid interest on the unpaid balance of the final
assessment amount at the rate per annum determined by the city under O.R.S.
223.215.
   (P)   The first payment shall be due and payable on the date that the city
shall determine, and subsequent payments shall be due and payable on subsequent
periodic dates thereafter as shall have been determined by the city.
   (Q)   If the owner neglects or refuses to pay installments under O.R.S.
223.265 as they become due and payable for a period of one year, then the city
may, by reason of the neglect or refusal to pay the installments, and while the
neglect and refusal to pay continues, pass a resolution:
      (1)   Giving the name of the owner in default in the payment sum due;
      (2)   Stating the sum due either in principal or interest, or both, and
any unpaid late payment penalties or charges;
      (3)   Containing a description of the property upon the sums are owing;
and
      (4)   Declaring the whole sum, both principle and interest, due and
payable at once.
   (R)   The city may then proceed at once to collect all unpaid installments
and to enforce collection thereof with all unpaid late payment penalties,
attorneys’ fees and administrative charges added thereto, in the same manner as
street and sewer assessments are collected in a manner provided in O.R.S.
Chapter 223.
(Prior Code, § 33.31) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.37 ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of the final assessment shall be called to
the attention of the City Recorder or the City Manager prior to any payment on
account. The City Recorder shall check the calculation. If an error has been
made, the Council shall amend the final assessment ordinance to correct the
error. Upon the enactment of such an amendment by the Council, the Recorder
shall make the necessary correction in the lien docket and shall send by
registered or certified mail to the owner a corrected notice of the assessment.
(Prior Code, § 33.32) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.38 AUTHORITY TO MAKE REASSESSMENT.
   Whenever all or part of any assessment for improvements is declared void or
set aside for any reason, or its enforcement refused, by any court for reason
of jurisdictional or other defects in procedure, whether directly or by virtue
of any court decision, or when the Council is in doubt as to the validity of
all or part of any such assessment by reason of such defects in procedure, the
Council may, by ordinance, make a new assessments or reassessments with respect
to all or part of the original assessment upon the lots which have been
benefited by all or part of the improvement to the extent of their respective
and proportionate shares of the full value of such benefit.
(Prior Code, § 33.33) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.39 BASIS FOR, AMOUNT AND METHOD OF REASSESSMENT.
   The reassessment shall be based upon the special and specific benefit of the
improvement to the respective lots at the time of the original making of the
improvement. The amount of the reassessment shall not be limited to the amount
of the original assessment, but the original property included in the district
shall remain the same, except property on which the original assessment was
paid in full shall not be included in the reassessment. Interest from the date
of delinquency of the original assessment may be added by the Council to the
reassessment in cases where property was included in the original assessment,
but such interest shall not apply to any portion of the reassessment that
exceed the amount of the original assessment. The reassessment shall be made in
an equitable manner as nearly as may be in accordance with the law in force at
the time the improvement was made, but the Council may adopt a different plan
of apportioning benefits or exclude portions of the district when, in its
judgment, it is essential to secure an equitable assessment. Credit shall be
allowed on the new assessment for all payments made on the original assessment.
(Prior Code, § 33.34) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.40 EFFECT OF REASSESSMENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The reassessment shall become a charge upon the property upon which it
is laid, notwithstanding the omission, failure or neglect of any officer, body
or person to comply with the provisions of the Charter, or law connected with
or relating to the improvement and original assessment, or any previous
reassessment.
   (B)   Although the proceedings of the Council or the acts of any officer,
contractor or other person connected with the improvement or assessment may
have been irregular or defective, whether such irregularity of defect was
jurisdictional or otherwise, the reassessment shall not be made in case of any
improvement wherein a remonstrance sufficient in law to defeat it has been duly
filed prior to the making of the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 33.35) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.41 COUNCIL RESOLUTION TO REASSESS.
   The process required by this subchapter, or other law for making the
original assessment, is not required with reference to the making of a
reassessment. The reassessment shall be initiated by adoption of a resolution
designating the improvement as to which a reassessment is contemplated,
describing the boundaries of the district that the Council contemplates for the
reassessment and directing the Recorder or other person to prepare a proposed
reassessment upon the property included within the district. After passage of
such resolution, the Recorder or other person shall prepare the proposed
reassessment and file it in the office of the Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 33.36) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.42 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF REASSESSMENT; CONTENTS.
   After the proposed reassessment is filed in the office of Recorder, the
Recorder shall give notice thereof by not less than four successive
publications in a newspaper published in the city and, if there is no newspaper
published in the city, in a newspaper to be designated by the Council. The
notice shall show that the proposed reassessment is on file in the office of
the Recorder, giving the date of the passage of the resolution authorizing it,
the boundaries of the district or a statement of the property affected by the
proposed reassessment, and specifying the time and the place where the Council
will hear and consider objections to the proposed reassessment by any parties
aggrieved thereby.
(Prior Code, § 33.37) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.43 PERSONAL NOTICE TO EACH OWNER; RIGHT TO FILE OBJECTIONS.
   The Recorder shall, within five days after the first date of publication of
the notice, mail or personally deliver to the owner of each lot affected by the
proposed reassessment, or to the agent of such owner, a notice of the proposed
reassessment, stating the matters set out in the printed notice and also the
amount proposed to be charged against the lot. If the address of the owner or
owner’s agent is unknown to the Recorder, the Recorder shall mail the notice
addressed to the owner or the owner’s agent at the city where the property is
located. Any mistake, error, omission of failure with respect to such mailing
shall not be jurisdictional or invalidate the reassessment proceedings. The
owners of any property included in the description of the printed notice, or
any person having an interest in that property, may, within ten days from the
day of last insertion of the printed notice, file in writing with the Recorder
objections against the proposed reassessment.
(Prior Code, § 33.38) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.44 HEARING ON OBJECTIONS; REVISION OF REASSESSMENT.
   (A)   At the time and place appointed in the notice, the Council shall hear
and determine all objections filed under §
33.43. The Council may adjourn the hearing from time to time and correct,
modify or revise the proposed reassessment or set it aside and order the making
of a new proposed reassessment or set it aside and order the making of a new
proposed reassessment. However, if the proposed reassessment is corrected or
revised so as to increase the proposed amount to be charged against any
property such reassessment shall not be made until after a new notice has been
given as stated in §
33.43 to the owners of the property against which the amount of the assessment
is proposed to be thus increased.
   (B)   The publication of the notice may be for not less than two successive
inserts in a newspaper as provided in §
33.42, and the time when actions may be taken thereon may be not less than five
days after the date of the last insertion. If the proposed reassessment is set
aside and a new apportionment ordered, notice shall be given of the new
apportionment in the manner stated in §§
33.42 and
33.43 and action taken thereon as provided in §
33.43.
(Prior Code, § 33.39) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.45 REASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   When the Council has determined what is in its judgment is a fair, just and
reasonable reassessment, it shall pass as an ordinance setting out and making
the reassessment. The reassessment so made shall be deemed to be regular,
correct, valid and just, except as it may be modified under §§
33.47 and
33.48.
(Prior Code, § 33.40) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.46 LIEN DOCKET ENTRY; CREDITING PRIOR PAYMENTS.
   When the reassessment is duly made it shall be entered in the city lien
docket. All provisions for bonding and paying by installments shall be
applicable, and such city liens shall be enforced and collected in the manner
provided for collection of liens for an original improvement. All sums paid
upon the former assessment or any previous reassessment shall be credited to
the property on account of which it was paid and as of the date of payment.
(Prior Code, § 33.41) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.47 RIGHT OF PURCHASER AT SALE UNDER PRIOR ASSESSMENT.
   In cases where the sale was made under the original assessment or any
previous reassessment, with reference to such improvement, and the property was
not redeemed from the sale, the purchaser at the sale is subrogated to the
rights of the city with reference to the property upon such reassessment if the
purchaser waives all penalties and interest, except such interest as may be
provided for in the reassessment, and delivers up for cancellation any
certificate or other evidence of sale. If a deed was issued at the sale, the
grantee therein, his or her heirs, executors, administrators, successors or
assigns, shall execute a deed of resale and quitclaim of all right, title and
interest in the property under such sale to owner of the property and deliver
the deed to the Recorder, so that the owner’s title may be cleared of the sale.
The Recorder shall now act as escrow holder of such certificate or other
evidence of sale and of such deed pending completion of the reassessment. If
the reassessment is not completed, the evidence of sale and the deed shall be
returned to the person delivering it. If the reassessment is completed, the
certificate or other evidence of sale shall be canceled and placed on file in
the office of City Recorder and the deed shall be delivered to the owner of the
property specified therein. If any such purchasers, their heirs, executors,
administrators, successors or assigns fail to comply with this section, they
are not entitled to subrogation. In any event, the amount of the subrogation
shall not exceed the amount which has been paid to the city on such sale,
together with interest at the rate established under this subchapter from the
date of sale until the date of payment. This amount is to be paid by the city
to the purchasers, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors or
assigns if and when the city collects the amount of the reassessment against
the property.
(Prior Code, § 33.42) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.48 REVIEW OF REASSESSMENT.
   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of §§
33.40 through
33.50, owners of any property against which a reassessment for local
improvements has been imposed may seek a review thereof under the provisions of
state law.
(Prior Code, § 33.43) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.49 ADDITIONAL REASSESSMENT PROCEDURE; TIME LIMITATION.
   No proceedings for making a reassessment shall be instituted after 20 years
from the date when the first assessment was entered in to the lien docket.
(Prior Code, § 33.44) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.50 MUNICIPAL BONDS ACCEPTED AS PAYMENT FOR ASSESSMENT LIENS.
   General obligation bonds or interest coupons attached, or both, of the city
are authorized for payments of all or any part of local improvement district
liens, interest or penalties of or payable to the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.45) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.51 ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY BENEFITED BY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever all or any part of the cost of public improvements is to be
assessed as the property benefited thereby, benefited property owned by the
city, county, school district, state and any political subdivision thereof
shall be assessed in the same as private property and the amount of the
assessment shall be paid by the city, school district, county or state, as the
case may be; provided, that the cost of the improvements are, in any given case
of the type that may be bonded under this subchapter.
   (B)   In the case of property owned by the state, the amount of the
assessment shall be certified by the City Treasurer and filed with the
Executive Department as a claim for reference to the Legislative Assembly in
the manner provided by state law unless funds for the payment of the assessment
have otherwise been provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.46) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.52 PUBLIC ROADS INCLUDED IN SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT ON
BENEFITED PROPERTY.
   The city, in addition to powers granted by law or Charter, may include
sidewalk improvement district within the city all county roads or state
highways or portions thereof within the improvement district. It may cause to
be built on the county roads or state highways or portions thereof within the
improvement district, sidewalks for pedestrian travel, and may assess the cost
thereof upon the property benefited thereby, in the manner provided by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.47) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.53 PARKING AND CITY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city may finance parking facilities by any one or any combination of the
following methods:
   (A)   General obligation bonds within the legal debt limitations, or revenue
bonds payable primarily or solely out of revenue from parking facilities in
such amounts, at such rate of interest, and upon such conditions as may be
prescribed by the legal authority of the city;
   (B)   Special or benefited assessments equal to the actual cost of the
parking facilities, or a portion thereof, such assessment to be levied against
property benefited in proportion to the benefited derived, the amount of such
assessment to be determined in accordance with special assessment practices for
local improvements as now or hereafter prescribed by this subchapter or Charter
provisions of the city;
   (C)   Parking fees, special charges or other revenue derived from the use of
off-street parking facilities by motorist, lessees, concessionaires, commercial
enterprises and others;
   (D)   General Fund appropriations;
   (E)   Parking meter revenue;
   (F)   General property taxes or gift, bequest, devise, grant or otherwise;
and
   (G)   (1)   A reasonable annual fee on the privilege of occupying real
property within the city or a district of the city to carry on a business,
occupation, professional trade. In levying the fee, the city shall take into
consideration the unmet off-street parking requirements of such business.
      (2)   The proceeds of the fee, less refunds and cost of collection, shall
be used solely for the purposes of O.R.S. 223.805 through 223.845. The fee is
in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other tax, assessment or fee required
by state or local law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.48) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.54 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for improvements undertaken hereunder at any time prior to the
final consummation of such proceedings. If liens have been assessed upon any
property prior to the abandonment, any amount of the lien in excess of the
benefit conferred on the property shall be canceled, and any excess payments
made thereon shall be refunded to the payor, their assign or legal
representative.
(Prior Code, § 33.49) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.55 CURATIVE PROVISION.
   No improvement assessment shall be invalid by reason if it appears that the
assessment as made, insofar as it affects the person complaining, is unfair,
unjust and contrary to law, and the City Council shall have the power and
authority to remedy and correct all such matters by suitable actions and
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 33.50) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.56 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SANITARY AND STORM SEWERS.
   When the Council finds it necessary for the public health, welfare and
safety to construct sanitary sewer or storm sewer, or both, the city may, to
the extent allowed by the state Constitution and state laws, proceed to form an
improvement district and construct the improvements as provided in this
subchapter. Property owners shall have no right of remonstrance when a sewer
system is constructed under this section. Those parts of this subchapter which
are in conflict with this section shall not apply.
(Prior Code, § 33.51) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 33.57 APPORTIONMENT OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall apportion a local improvement district assessment imposed
upon a single tract or parcel of real property among all the parcels formed
from a subsequent partition or other division of that tract or parcel;
provided, that the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The subsequent partition or division is in accordance with O.R.S.
92.103 through 92.160 and is consistent with all applicable comprehensive plans
as acknowledged by the State Land Conservation and Development Commission.
   (B)   The proportionate distribution of the local improvement district
assessment authorized may be made whenever the local improvement district
assessment remains wholly or partially unpaid, and full payment or installment
payment is not due.
   (C)   The city has been requested to make such local improvement district
assessment by an owner, mortgage or lien holder of a parcel or real property
that was formed from the partition or other division of the larger tract of
real property against which the local improvement district was originally
levied.
      (1)   The city shall not apportion the local improvement district
assessment unless the applicant files a true copy of the deed, mortgage or
instrument evidencing the applicants ownership or other interest in the parcel,
or the applicant supplies the city with the recording data necessary for the
city to find such deed, mortgage or other instrument evidencing the applicant’s
ownership or other interest in the parcel in the County Deed Records.
      (2)   Any and all local improvement district assessments made by the city
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in the form of an ordinance of the city
and shall contain the following information at a minimum:
         (a)   The description of each parcel of real property affected by the
apportionment;
         (b)   The amount of the assessment to be levied against each parcel;
and
         (c)   The owner of the parcel.
   (D)   A copy of the ordinance apportioning a local improvement district
assessment shall be filed with the City Recorder who shall make the necessary
changes or entries in the city’s lien docket.
   (E)   Each applicant for apportionment of an LID assessment shall pay a fee
as established by the city before the city will begin the local improvement
district assessment apportionment process.
(Prior Code, § 33.52) (Ord. 365, passed 4-14-1997)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Unlawful acts
   
34.03   Manner of initiating
   
34.04   Manner of referring
   
34.05   Petition requirements
   
34.06   Requisite number of signatures
   
34.07   Attachment of measure
   
34.08   Preparation of ballot title; appeal
   
34.09   Affidavit of petitioner
   
34.10   Certification of signatures
   
34.11   Time for voting on measure
   
34.12   Notice of election
   
34.13   Titles and numbers of measures on ballot
   
34.14   Election returns
   
34.15   Proclamation of Mayor
   
34.16   Effect of measures
   
34.17   Filing for municipal elections
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEASURE. A legislative enactment by the City Council not necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety; a part of such an
enactment; or a proposed legislative enactment for the city.
   PETITION. An initiative or referendum petition for ordering a measure to be
submitted to the voters.
   REFER. To be subjected to the referendum.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The city elections held at the same times and places as
biennial general state elections.
   SPECIAL ELECTION. Any election not held on the date of a “regular election.”
   VOTER. A legal voter of the city.
   WRITE. To write, type or print.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No person other than a voter shall sign his or her name to a petition; sign
a petition with a name not his or her own; or sign his or her name to a
petition with knowledge of previously signing the petition. No person shall
knowingly circulate or deposit at the office of the Recorder a petition which
to his or her knowledge contains a signature signed in violation of this
chapter. No person shall procure or attempt to procure a signature to a
petition by fraud. No person shall make a statement which he or she knows to be
false concerning a petition. No person shall make a document provided for by
this code which contains a false statement. No person shall pay or receive a
valuable consideration for procuring a signature to a petition. No officer
shall willfully violate a provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.03 MANNER OF INITIATING.
   (A)   Voters may initiate legislation by filing with the City Administrator
a duly prepared initiative petition proposing the legislation and requesting it
be submitted to the voters of the city.
   (B)   The initiative petition shall be in the form prescribed by the City
Administrator and shall comply with the requirements of §
34.05.
   (C)   Any duly proposed initiative petition which has been certified in
accordance with §
34.10 shall be presented to the Council by the City Administrator at the next
regular meeting of the Council.
   (D)   A Charter or Charter amendment proposed by the initiative and any
other initiative measure not enacted by the Council within 30 days after its
proposal shall be submitted to the voters at the time provided in §
34.11.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.04 MANNER OF REFERRING.
   (A)   Voters may refer a measure by filing with the City Administrator a
duly prepared referendum petition for the measure.
   (B)   The Council may refer a measure by ordering submission of the measure
to the voters.
   (C)   The referendum petition shall be in the form prescribed by the City
Administrator and shall comply with the requirements of §
34.10.
   (D)   No referendum petition shall be deemed duly prepared unless it, and
the signatures requisite to its being deemed fully prepared, are deposited at
the office of the City Administrator within 30 days after the Council enacts
the measure.
   (E)   A duly prepared referendum petition which has been certified in
accordance with §
34.10 shall be submitted to the voters at the time provided by §
34.11.
   (F)   The Council may refer a measure only at the session at which it enacts
the measure. A measure referred by the Council shall be submitted to the voters
at the time provided in §
34.11.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.05 PETITION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Only the first 20 names appearing on any page of the petition may be
considered when computing the number of valid signatures to the petition.
   (B)   The long ballot title prepared in accordance with §
34.08(B)(5) shall be printed on the first page of the petition and the short
ballot title prepared in accordance with §
34.08(B)(2) shall be printed on each signature sheet of the petition.
   (C)   No petition shall be deemed duly prepared unless prior to its
circulation a copy of it is deposited at the office of the City Administrator
and as circulated it complies with the specifications of this section.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall review the copy of the petition to be
circulated and shall immediately:
      (1)   Check it for the legal sufficiency of the form in which it appears;
      (2)   Advise the person depositing it whether it is legally sufficient in
form; and if it is not so, how to make it so;
      (3)   Specify the mode of writing the petition and the size and kind of
paper on which to write it; and
      (4)   Transmit the copy to the City Attorney for preparation of a ballot
title.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.06 REQUISITE NUMBER OF SIGNATURES.
   The number of signatures on a petition requisite to its being deemed duly
prepared shall be for an initiative petition 15% and for a referendum petition
10% of the number of votes cast for the office of Mayor at the mayoralty
election last preceding the deposit of the petition at the office of the City
Administrator after its circulation.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.07 ATTACHMENT OF MEASURE.
   No signature on a petition sheet shall be counted unless attached to it at
the time of the signing of the signature is a copy of the measure to which the
petition refers.
(Prior Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.08 PREPARATION OF BALLOT TITLE; APPEAL.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall prepare the ballot title within five days
after the Council orders the submission of a measure to the voters or after a
copy of the petition is first deposited in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   The ballot title shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The ballot title for a measure shall consist of a short title and a
long title.
      (2)   The short title shall be the title by which the measure is commonly
spoken of, or a title for commonly referring to the measure, and shall contain
not more than ten words.
      (3)   The long title shall state the purpose of the measure and shall
contain not more than 100 words.
      (4)   The ballot title for a measure shall state truly and impartially
the purpose of the measure in language which is not an argument and does not
tend to create prejudice concerning the measure. Nor shall it resemble, so far
as to create confusion, the ballot title for another measure to be submitted to
the voters at the same election.
   (C)   A voter dissatisfied with the title within five days after it is
delivered to the City Administrator may appeal to the Council by a written
appeal deposited at the office of the City Administrator asking for a different
ballot title for the measure and stating why the title prepared and filed is
unsatisfactory.
   (D)   Within three days after the deposit of the appeal at the office of the
City Administrator, the Council shall, either in regular or special session,
afford the appellant a hearing and either approve the title or prescribe
another ballot title for the measure. The title thus adopted shall be the
ballot title for the measure.
(Prior Code, § 34.08) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.09 AFFIDAVIT OF PETITIONER.
   No signature on a petition sheet shall be counted unless the person who
circulates the sheet verifies it by an affidavit in a form prescribed by the
City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 34.09) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES.
   Within ten days after a duly prepared petition is deposited in the office of
the City Administrator, the City Administrator or the designee of the City
Administrator shall verify the number and genuineness of the signatures and
voting qualifications of the persons signing the petition by references to the
registration books in the office of the County Clerk. If a sufficient number of
qualified voters signed the petition, the City Administrator shall so certify
and accept the petition. If the City Administrator determines that an
insufficient number of qualified voters signed the petition the City
Administrator shall return the petition to the person signing the affidavit as
specified in §
34.09.
(Prior Code, § 34.10) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.11 TIME FOR VOTING ON MEASURE.
   The time for voting on a measure required to be submitted to the voters
shall be the first regular election held more than 60 days after the latest
time the measure has been proposed or referred; provided, however, that the
Council may, at its discretion, call for a special election upon the measure
and set forth the date of the holding thereof, all to the same effect as if the
voting on the measure required to be submitted to the voters were at a regular
election.
(Prior Code, § 34.11) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.12 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   (A)   The City Administrator, pursuant to directions from the City Council,
shall give notice of each regular or special election by publishing a notice
thereof once each week, for two successive weeks immediately preceding the
election, in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by posting the
notice in a conspicuous place in the City Hall and in three public places in
the city.
   (B)   The notice of the election shall state the ballot title and number of
each measure to be voted upon at the election.
   (C)   When a measure is to be voted upon at an election, the date of which
is prescribed by state law, the City Administrator shall furnish to the County
Clerk a certified copy of the ballot title and number of the measure to be
voted upon at the election in conformity with the time limits established by
the laws of this state.
(Prior Code, § 34.12) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.13 TITLES AND NUMBERS OF MEASURES ON BALLOT.
   (A)   On a ballot, a measure shall appear by ballot title only.
   (B)   On a ballot for an election, the sequence of measures to be voted upon
shall be the sequence in which the respective measures are ordered to be
submitted to the voters.
   (C)   On a ballot, initiative measures shall be distinguished from referred
measures.
   (D)   On a ballot, the first measure shall be numbered 51 in numerals. The
succeeding measures shall be numbered consecutively 52, 53, 54 and so on.
(Prior Code, § 34.13) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.14 ELECTION RETURNS.
   The votes on a measure shall be counted, canvassed and returned as follows:
   (A)   In case of general elections, in the same manner as other votes cast
at general elections in the city; and
   (B)   In case of special elections, in the manner provided by the City
Charter and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 34.14) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.15 PROCLAMATION OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Immediately upon the completion of the canvass of the votes on a
measure submitted to the voters pursuant to this chapter, the Mayor shall issue
a proclamation:
      (1)   Recapitulating the vote on the measure;
      (2)   Declaring whether the vote shows a majority of those who voted on
the measure to be in favor of it; and
      (3)   In case the vote shows a majority of them to be in favor of the
measure, announcing it to be effective from the date of the vote.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall give public notice of the proclamation
by:
      (1)   Publishing it once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city;
      (2)   Posting copies of it in five public places in the city, including
the City Hall; and
      (3)   The proclamation shall be filed with the measure.
(Prior Code, § 34.15) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.16 EFFECT OF MEASURES.
   (A)   A measure submitted to the voters pursuant to this code shall take
effect only when approved by a majority of the voters voting upon it.
   (B)   A measure, so long as it is subject to the referendum, shall have no
effect.
   (C)   Of conflicting measures approved by the voters at an election, the one
receiving the greater number of affirmative votes shall be paramount.
(Prior Code, § 34.16) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
§ 34.17 FILING FOR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Not more than 40 days and not less than 20 days before the day fixed
by law for election, the names of the candidates for municipal offices and
positions shall be filed with the City Recorder.
   (B)   Not more than 20 days and not less than 15 days before said election,
the same shall be placed on a ballot by the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 34.17) (Ord. 163, passed 10-7-1952)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of one of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
by:
   (A)   A fine of not more than $300; or
   (B)   Imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than 150 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 34.99) (Ord. 267, passed 8-14-1979)
CHAPTER 35: PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR MEASURE 49 CLAIMS
Section
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Claim filing procedures
   
35.04   Pre-filing conference
   
35.05   City Administrator investigation
   
35.06   City Council proceedings
   
35.07   Public hearing
   
35.08   Council decision
   
35.09   Authority
   
35.10   Fees and reimbursement of costs
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures and standards for
claims made under Measure 49, 2004.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or designee.
   AFFECTED PROPERTY. Private real property alleged to have suffered a
reduction in fair market value as a result of the city’s regulation which
restricts the use of the property and for which a property owner seeks
compensation for reduction in value.
   DEMAND. A written demand for compensation that meets the requirements of §
35.03.
   EXEMPT REGULATION.
      (1)   Regulations or laws restricting or prohibiting activities commonly
and historically recognized as public nuisances under common law and those
listed in the ordinances of the city as nuisances, together with all criminal
laws, both in the city ordinances or the laws of the state and federal laws or
regulations.
      (2)   Regulations restricting or prohibiting activities for protection of
public health and safety, including, but not limited to, fire and building
codes; health and sanitation regulations; solid or hazardous waste regulations;
or any regulations governing construction or performance standards for water,
waste water, transportation or public utility systems; and pollution control
regulations.
   FAMILY MEMBER. The wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother,
sister, in-laws, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild,
grandparent, grandchild of the owner of the property or an estate of any of the
foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or combination of
these family members, or the owner of the real property.
   OWNER.
      (1)   The present owner of real property that is the subject of a demand
for compensation.
      (2)   The OWNER must be a person who is the sole fee simple owner or all
joint owners whose interests add up to a fee simple interest in the property,
including all persons who represent all recorded interests in the property,
such as co-owners, joint tenants, leasehold owners, security interest holders
and holders with less than a fee simple interest.
   PROPERTY. Any real property or interest therein within the city limits of
the city, not including contiguous or not contiguous parcels under different
ownership.
   REGULATION. Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, land
division ordinances and transportation ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.03 CLAIM FILING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A property owner wishing to make a claim against the city under
Measure 49 shall first file at the office of the City Administration a written
demand for compensation to the city. A written demand for compensation is one
that includes:
      (1)   Identification of the affected property. Identification shall be by
street address, subdivision lot number, tax lot number or any other information
that identifies the property;
      (2)   The name and contact information of the person making the claim,
the date the claimant acquired the property and, if applicable, the date and
name that a family member(s) of claimant acquired the property;
      (3)   Identification of the regulation that is alleged to restrict the
use of the affected property and the amount of compensation claimed;
      (4)   The amount claimed as compensation;
      (5)   A statement describing how the restriction affects the value of the
property;
      (6)   A statement describing the extent to which the regulation would
need to be waived, suspended or modified to avoid the need for compensation;
      (7)   A statement whether the application seeks compensation or a waiver,
suspension or modification of the regulation; and
      (8)   A list of all persons with an ownership interest in or a lien on
the property.
   (B)   The city encourages but does not require the person claiming
compensation to include the following information with the written demand for
compensation: an appraisal showing the difference in the property value with
and without the regulation.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.04 PRE-FILING CONFERENCE.
   The City Administrator, after receiving a demand from a property owner, may
request a conference to discuss and clarify the demand.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.05 CITY ADMINISTRATOR INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Council delegates authority to the City Administrator to deny
any claim for the reasons set forth in §
35.08(A). The City Administrator may deny a claim that the City Administrator
deems to be invalid or may submit such claim to the City Council for a decision
as to whether the claim should be denied.
   (B)   All claims which the City Administrator does not deny as invalid shall
be submitted to the City Council for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.06 CITY COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the claim. The public
hearing should normally be set within 150 days of the demand for compensation
but may be set at any time.
   (B)   The City Council may hold an executive session on the claim at any
time.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.07 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The claimant and any other person shall be provided a reasonable opportunity
to present evidence and argument at the public hearing. The City Council may
limit the duration of testimony.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.08 COUNCIL DECISION.
   In deciding the claim, the City Council may take any of the following
actions:
   (A)   Deny the claim based on any one or more of the following findings:
      (1)   The regulation does not restrict the use of the private real
property;
      (2)   The fair market value of the property is not reduced by the passage
or enforcement of the regulation;
      (3)   The claim was not timely filed under the provisions of Measure 49;
      (4)   The claimant is not the current property owner;
      (5)   The claimant or family member of claimant was not the property
owner at the time the regulation was adopted;
      (6)   The regulation is an exempt regulation;
      (7)   The regulation regulates pornography or nude dancing;
      (8)   The regulation is required by federal law;
      (9)   The regulation protects public health and safety;
      (10)   The city is not the entity responsible for payment. The city is
not responsible if the challenged law, rule, ordinance, goal or other enactment
was not enacted by the city;
      (11)   The city has not taken final action to enforce or apply the
regulation to the property for which compensation is claimed; and
      (12)   The claimant is not legally entitled to compensation for a reason
other than those listed in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(10) above. The basis
for this finding must be clearly explained.
   (B)   Pay compensation, either in the amount requested or in some other
amount supported by the evidence. If the city pays compensation, the city shall
continue to apply and enforce the regulation. Any compensation shall be paid
from funds appropriated for that purpose;
   (C)   Waive or not apply the regulation to allow the owner to use the
property for a use permitted at the time the claimant acquired the property.
Such waiver shall apply only to the current owner of the property unless the
City Council provides otherwise;
   (D)   Modify the regulation so that it does not give rise to a claim for
compensation. Any such modification shall be as to the property only unless the
city follows the procedure for a legislative land use decision and the
regulation is not required by state law (see Attorney General’s opinion);
   (E)   Conditionally waive or suspend the regulation subject to receipt of a
defined amount of contributions toward compensation by a specified date from
persons opposed to the waiver or suspension, such as persons who believe they
would be negatively affected by waiver or suspension, with the waiver or
suspension being granted if the defined amount of contributions is not received
by the specified date. If the contributions are received, compensation shall be
paid within 180 days of the date the written demand for compensation was filed.
The specified date shall allow the city time to process the contributions and
pay compensation; and
   (F)   (1)   The City Council may take other actions it deems appropriate in
individual circumstances, may modify the listed actions and/or may combine the
listed actions, consistent with Measure 49. The City Council may negotiate an
acceptable solution with the claimant or may direct staff to negotiate with the
claimant.
      (2)   In the event that the City Council directs staff to negotiate, the
Council shall set the matter for further action no less than 175 days from the
date of the notice of claim became complete. If the City Council directs staff
to negotiate, it may delegate authority to staff.
      (3)   The Council shall take final action within 180 days of the written
demand for compensation. The city shall take actions described in divisions (B)
through (E) above only if it determines the claim is valid.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.09 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall have the authority to take the actions listed in §
35.08, including the authority to waive or suspend any provision of any city
code or ordinance, notwithstanding any inconsistent provision in this code or
the Community Development Code, being
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances. The city may retain an appraiser to
assist the Council determination.
(Prior Code, § 35.09) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.10 FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.
   The claimant shall pay a processing fee as specified by resolution of the
City Council. The claimant shall further reimburse the city for additional
costs, including legal fees the city incurs in processing the claim, which
exceed the processing fee. If the costs remain unpaid 90 days after the city
provides a detailed invoice demanding reimbursement of costs, a lien for those
costs shall be recorded in the city lien docket for the property for which the
claim is made. The processing fee is non-reimbursable to the claimant.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 398, passed 4-11-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   ELECTRICAL SERVICE
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
Payment for Utility Service
   
50.01   Responsibility for payment
   
50.02   Dates of payment
   
50.03   Interest
   
50.04   Mailing address
   
50.05   Lien
   
50.06   Termination of service
   
50.07   Restoration of service
   
50.08   Bills deemed correct
   
50.09   Definitions
   
50.10   Non-sufficient funds
Violations
   
50.25   Notice of violations
   
50.26   Liability for loss
 
   
50.99   Penalty
PAYMENT FOR UTILITY SERVICE
§ 50.01 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   All customers shall be responsible for payment of all water and sewer
charges prescribed by this title for the customer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 50.02 DATES OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Utility charges prescribed by this code shall be billed on the first
day of the month for services rendered in the prior month and shall be due and
payable to the city no later than the fifteenth of the month.
   (B)   If the fifteenth falls on a weekend or holiday, the amount owed shall
be paid to the city on or before the previous business day or no later than 12:
00 p.m. on the following business day. If such charges are not paid when due,
they shall be deemed delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 396, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 50.03 INTEREST.
   Interest at the rate of 1% per month shall accrue on all accounts from the
date of delinquency. In addition, a penalty shall be assessed at the rate of $2
per month from the date of delinquency which shall be added to the account and
shall accrue interest in the same manner as all other delinquent charges
beginning the following month.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 50.04 MAILING ADDRESS.
   Bills for utility charges shall be mailed to the address specified in the
application for utility service unless the customer submits a written request
that the bill be sent to a different address.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 50.05 LIEN.
   (A)   If the property owner has agreed that a lien may be imposed as set
forth in §§
51.01,
52.24 or
53.03, then all electric, water and sewer charges shall be a lien against the
premises served from the date they are deemed delinquent as provided in §
50.02.
   (B)   The lien shall be entered in the city lien docket. The lien docket
shall be made accessible for inspection by anyone interested in ascertaining
the amount of the charges against the premises. When a bill for utility charges
remains unpaid 60 days after it is deemed delinquent, as provided in §
50.02, the lien may be foreclosed in the manner provided by O.R.S. 223.610 or
in any other manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 7-8-1991;
Ord. 418, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 50.06 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to terminate any utility service for
nonpayment of utility charges. The city shall have the right to terminate water
service for nonpayment of sewer charges. The city shall not terminate utility
service after 12:00 p.m. on a Friday, during a weekend or after 12:00 p.m. on
the day before a federal or state holiday.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to termination of utility service, the city shall give
notice to the occupant of the premises by regular mailing such notice to the
address of the premises.
      (2)   If the occupant is not the owner of the premises, the city shall
also give notice to the owner by mailing such notice to the billing address as
provided in §
50.04. The notice shall state that service will be terminated unless the
utility charges are paid in full within ten days from the date of the notice of
termination.
   (C)   A customer or occupant of the premises who questions or disputes a
utility bill shall file with the City Manager a request for a hearing within
seven days after the date of the notice of termination.
   (D)   If a hearing is timely requested, and the matter has not been
informally resolved by the City Administrator, the City Council shall hold a
hearing, consider the evidence offered by the customer or occupant of the
premises and the City Administrator and determine whether the utility charges
are correct, due and payable. The customer or occupant may have an attorney or
other representative present at the hearing.
   (E)   The City Council shall make its determination in writing and shall by
certified mail send a copy of its determination to the occupant and to the
customer at the billing address provided in §
50.04, if the occupant is not the owner of the premises.
   (F)   If a hearing is timely requested, the city shall not terminate utility
service until three days after the date of mailing its determination. If a
hearing is not timely requested, the city may terminate utility service 15 days
after the date of the notice of termination.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 393, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 50.07 RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A customer or occupant whose utility service has been terminated by
the city or temporarily disconnected at the request of the customer shall pay a
reconnection charge for restoration of service.
   (B)   The amount of the reconnection charge shall be specified by resolution
of the City Council. Utility service shall not be restored to the occupant who
was disconnected until all charges, including interest, penalties and the
reconnection charge, have been paid.
   (C)   (1)   As to water and sewer customers, utility service shall not be
restored to the customer or occupant until all charges, including interest,
penalties and the reconnection charge, have been paid.
      (2)   As to water and sewer customers, a change of ownership or occupancy
of the premises shall not be cause for restoration of service without payment
of all charges.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 50.08 BILLS DEEMED CORRECT.
   Unless an error in a utility bill is called to the city’s attention within
60 days of the date of the bill, the bill shall be deemed final and correct.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 50.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for service.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract backpressures or
prevent backsiphonage. This device must appear on the list of approved devices
issued by the State Health Division.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the public water
system that may be available in the building or on the premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases or substances into the water system
of the city’s water.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the owner’s
property line.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Mayor and City Council to
fulfill the duties of the office of City Administrator or the Administrator’s
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer that is designed as a sanitary sewer and a storm
sewer.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a public water supply system of
any substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.
      (1)   Any physical arrangement where a public water system is connected,
directly or indirectly, with any other non-drinkable water system or auxiliary
system, sewer, drain conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir, plumbing
fixture, swamp coolers or any other device which contains, or may contain,
contaminated water, sewage or other liquid of unknown or unsafe quality which
may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water system as a
result of backflow.
      (2)   Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel
or changeover devices or other temporary or permanent devices through which, or
because of which, backflow may occur are considered to be CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   CUSTOMER. The person who owns the premises receiving water, sewer or
electrical service.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The part of the piping on a customer’s premises that
connects the service connection to the customer’s distribution system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Shall be derived from the evaluation of a health, system,
plumbing or pollutional hazard.
   ELECTRIC METERS. An instrument used for measuring the electric energy or
power delivered to the customer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical
or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer’s potable
water system that would be a danger to health.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   KILOWATT (KW). A unit of power equal to 1,000 watts or 1.341 horsepower.
   KILOWATT-HOUR (KWH). The amount of energy delivered in one hour when
delivery is at a constant rate of one kilowatt (3,412.8 BTUs).
   LOAD. The power requirement, usually measured in kilowatts, of a system or
piece of equipment at a given instant, or the average rate of energy used
during any designated period of time.
   LOAD FACTOR. The ratio of average kilowatt load to the kilowatt demand
during any designated period, expressed in percentage.
   MAIN. A water line designed or used to service more than one premises.
   MONTH. The period approximating one month in length and coinciding with the
dates on which regular water or electric meters are read. A fraction of a month
shall be charged as a full month.
   NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE. The State Electrical Specialty Code, being O.A.R.
918-305-000 et seq., as adopted by the State Department of Commerce pursuant to
O.R.S. 455.010 through 455.450.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, associations, firms and partnerships.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. An internal or plumbing-type cross-connection in a
consumer’s potable water system that may be either a pollutional or a
contamination-type hazard. This includes, but is not limited to, cross-
connections to toilets, sinks, lavatories, wash trays, domestic washing
machines and lawn sprinkling systems. Plumbing-type cross-connections can be
located in many types of structure, including homes, apartment houses, hotels
and commercial or industrial establishments.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer’s potable
water system but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as
defined herein. The maximum degree of intensity of pollution to which the
potable water system could be degraded under this definition would cause a
nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage to the
system or its appurtenances.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses.
   POWER. The rate of generating, transferring, transforming or use of energy
measured in kilowatts or horsepower.
   POWER FACTOR. The ratio of kilowatts to kilovolt-amperes expressed in
percentage.
   PREMISES. Any piece of land to which water is provided, including all
improvements, mobile home(s) and structures located on it.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   READILY ACCESSIBLE. That which is normally and easily reached during regular
daytime service hours and free of all obstructions; not subject to being under
private “lock and key,” “fenced-in” or within a “dog-run” area.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DEVICE.
      (1)   An assembly containing two independently acting approved check
valves together with a hydraulically-operated, mechanically independent
pressure differential relief valve located between the check valves and at the
same time below the first check valve.
      (2)   The device shall include properly located test blocks and tightly
closing shut-off valves at the end of the assembly. A check valve is approved
it appears on the list of approved devices issued by the State Health Division.
   SANITARY SEWER. A conduit intended to carry liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions
together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface waters
that are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The portion of the water distributing system which
connects the meter to the main and shall normally consist of a corporation
stop, service pipe, curb stop and box, meter, meter yolk and meter box.
   SERVICE DROP. The overhead service conductors from the last pole or other
aerial support, including the splices, if any, which connect to the service
entrance conductors at the building or other structure.
   SERVICE ENTRANCE. The service conductors and conduit/cable between the
terminals of the service equipment (see National Electrical Code requirements)
and the point of attachment of the service drop or service lateral.
   SERVICE LATERAL. The underground service conductors (and raceway, if used)
between the secondary distribution system (including any risers at a pole or
other structures or from transformers, junction box or underground vault) and
the first point of connection to the service entrance conductors.
   SERVICE LINE. The sewer connection between the public sewer line and the
building sewer.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of garbage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SPACE. As the term applies to permanent or semi-permanent locations for
mobile homes, trailers or recreational vehicles, shall mean each location where
a sewer, water or electrical system connection is available for such dwelling
units or vehicles and shall include each community toilet, washroom or laundry
facility in a mobile home, trailer or recreational vehicle park.
   STANDBY SERVICE. Water service which is used for fire protection purposes
and not for any other purpose.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer designed to carry only stormwaters,
surface runoff, street wash waters and drainage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public or consumer’s potable water system of a
pollution or contamination which would have a detrimental effect on the quality
of the potable water in the system.
   THERMAL EXPANSION. Heated water that does not have the space to expand.
   UTILITY. Water, sewer and/or electric service.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WEATHERHEAD. The termination at the end of the conduit through which the
customer’s conductors pass for attachment to an aerial service drop.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 50.10 NON-SUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   (A)   If payment is made by check for utility services and returned by a
financial institution due to non-sufficient funds, a fee will be charged to the
account. The NSF fee is set by resolution.
   (B)   Upon notice of non-sufficient funds, the customer is required to
provide payment by cash or money order on the current utility amount plus any
additional charges.
   (C)   If the city does not receive payment within three business days, the
utilities may be terminated or disconnected.
   (D)   Upon a second non-sufficient fund notice, the customer will be
required to provide payment by cash or money order for a period of six months.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 424, passed 10-12-2015)
VIOLATIONS
§ 50.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating this title shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 LIABILITY FOR LOSS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of
such violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
50.25 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeded $250 for each violation. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Violation of §
52.06 shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $500 or confinement in jail not
to exceed 100 days, or both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRICAL SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Applications for electric service; connection charge; deposit
   
51.02   Line extensions
   
51.03   Service conductors; type; responsibility and cost
   
51.04   Placement of meter bases
   
51.05   Point of attachment
   
51.06   Service drops
   
51.07   Communications systems
   
51.08   Wiring beyond meter
   
51.09   Inspection by city
   
51.10   Voltage
   
51.11   Application for temporary service
   
51.12   Relocation of facilities
   
51.13   Dusk to dawn outdoor lighting
   
51.14   Resale prohibited
   
51.15   Rights-of-way and rights of access
   
51.16   Meter tampering
   
51.17   Protect city property
   
51.18   Service by city
   
51.19   Commencement of service
   
51.20   Electric rates
   
51.21   Point of metering
   
51.22   Reduced rates for qualified senior citizens
   
51.23   Reduced electric rates
§ 51.01 APPLICATIONS FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE; CONNECTION CHARGE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No person shall connect premises to the city electric system without a
permit to do so.
   (B)   All persons panting electrical service for premises which have never
before been served by electricity shall apply to the City Administrator for a
permit for service and shall pay the connection charges and abide by the
connection procedures specified in this chapter.
   (C)   All persons wanting electrical service for premises which have
previously been served by electricity shall apply to the City Administrator for
a permit for service and shall pay the connection charge specified by
resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   The City Administrator may deny a permit if the applicant has an
unpaid electric bill at that or another address.
   (E)   The following shall apply for all residential, commercial and
industrial customers for electric service.
      (1)   Connection charges. All customers for electric service shall pay
the electric connection charge at the time of application for services in the
amount specified by resolution and adopted by City Council.
      (2)   Deposits. All customers for electric service shall pay the deposit
or advanced payment charge at the time of application for services and abide by
the specific deposit requirements established by resolution and adopted by City
Council. No interest shall be paid on deposits or advanced payments.
      (3)   Lien. If payments are not made, the city may impose a lien on the
property.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 7-8-1991;
Ord. 418, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.02 LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Where a person applies for service and there is no existing city line
in the right-of-way adjacent to the property to be served, the city may, in its
discretion, extend the existing lines.
   (B)   The city will construct line extensions only along public streets,
roads and highways which the city has the legal right to occupy and on public
lands and private property across which rights-of-way satisfactory to the city
may be obtained without cost to the city.
   (C)   Should the city extend its lines, the person or persons requesting the
extension shall contract to pay for the extension and all costs of
construction, including, but not limited to, the costs of materials,
transformers, labor, transportation, engineering, overhead and contingencies at
the rate of one and one-half times the cost of construction to be paid on a
monthly basis over a five-year period.
   (D)   A person applying for line extensions for a development project shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Submit complete and approved plot plans of the area, including
grade information, street or area parking, sewer, water and distribution mains,
landscaping, location of other utility services and an estimate of electrical
load and service requirements to the city;
      (2)   (a)   Provide any easements required by the city at no cost to the
city. These easements shall be included in the recorded plot or shall be
specified in a written agreement to secure the easements prior to the city
beginning construction.
         (b)   Each premises to be served by the line extension shall be
covered by a recorded deed restriction requiring underground electrical service
to serve that premises. Unless otherwise agreed and specified in the easement,
no buildings or structures of any kind may be constructed on these easements;
and
      (3)   (a)   Be responsible for all grading and staking of property lines
and lot corners. Grade stakes indicating final grade shall be placed so that
electric facilities installed by the city can be at proper depth after the
development is completed.
         (b)   Any relocation in depth or routing of the installed underground
system made necessary by action of the developer/customer shall be done at the
expense of the developer/customer. Any rough grading required shall be
completed before installation of any electric facilities is started.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.03 SERVICE CONDUCTORS; TYPE; RESPONSIBILITY AND COST.
   (A)   Type.
      (1)   All service conductors shall be underground where underground
service is available or where the city will make it available.
      (2)   Overhead service shall be provided where underground service is not
available and the city deems underground service impracticable.
   (B)   Responsibility and cost.
      (1)   The customer shall install, own and maintain the service entrance
and meter base for an overhead conductor. The customer shall pay for, install,
own and maintain the service entrance equipment. For an underground conductor
the customer shall pay for, install, own and maintain a service lateral
conduit. The city shall not be held liable for any loss or damage to persons or
property resulting from defects in the customer’s installation or equipment or
the delivery of energy thereto.
      (2)   The city shall install, own and maintain all equipment, other than
those items enumerated in division (B)(1) above, necessary to supply
electricity to the meter and the meter itself. The cost of this service shall
be paid by the person applying for the service at a rate established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.04 PLACEMENT OF METER BASES.
   (A)   The location of every meter base must be approved by the city. Unless
otherwise authorized by the city’s electrical departments, the meter base shall
be located in a readily accessible location outside the building so that the
center of the meter or top row of multiple meter installations is five feet,
plus or minus six inches, above the finished ground level or projected walkway
at that point.
   (B)   Meter bases shall not be placed under porches, carports or breezeways,
over open pits, moving machinery, hatchways, in the path of falling water or
where the meter may be subjected to excessive vibration or possible mechanical
damage.
   (C)   The customer shall maintain ready accessibility to the city’s meter
and equipment. The city may terminate or temporarily disconnect a customer’s
electrical service if such access is not maintained. A key is not considered
acceptable for containing access to the meter.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.05 POINT OF ATTACHMENT.
   (A)   Before installing or altering service entrance equipment, the customer
shall obtain approval from the city of the point of attachment and placement of
the weatherhead.
   (B)   The strength of the structure at the point of attachment shall be
sufficient to supply the mechanical load (pull) of the service drop under ice
and wind loading conditions plus an acceptable safety margin.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.06 SERVICE DROPS.
   Should the city use service drops to supply electricity to a meter, the
customer shall make sure that the path between the service pole and the point
of attachment are clear of structures or other obstructions. The city shall not
contact a building with a service drop at more than one point except as
permitted under the National Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.07 COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Should the customer wish to have underground communications systems
installed at the same time as the city installs an underground electrical
system, the city shall cooperate, if possible, in accordance with existing
joint agreements and practices.
   (B)   Underground communications systems shall be installed in the manner
provided in the Design Manual for Streets and Ways.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.08 WIRING BEYOND METER.
   The customer shall install, own and maintain all wiring and equipment beyond
the meter. Such wiring shall conform to all requirements of the governmental
agencies having jurisdiction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.09 INSPECTION BY CITY.
   The city shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to examine the
customer’s equipment before service is supplied and at any future time as
determined by the city. However, nothing in these procedures shall be construed
as placing upon the city any responsibility for the inspection of, the
condition of or the maintenance of the customer’s energy-consuming devices or
other equipment.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.10 VOLTAGE.
   (A)   Electric service shall be furnished in nominal 60 cycles, alternating
current, single or three-phase.
   (B)   Voltage at which service will be provided shall be determined by the
city. Service voltage shall be confirmed prior to making final plans and
ordering equipment.
   (C)   (1)   The city cannot guarantee the constancy of its voltage or
frequency, nor can it guarantee against the loss of one or more phases in
three-phase service and shall not be responsible for damage caused by either or
both of these conditions.
      (2)   The customer shall provide equipment protection for these
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.11 APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   (A)   Temporary service may be provided for short-term or transient
installations such as mobile homes for which a permanent structure for the
point of attachment has not yet been constructed (30-day limit), short-term
commercial activities and on-site construction operations.
   (B)   Any person desiring temporary electrical service shall make
application for service and shall pay the cost of connecting and dismantling
the service as determined by the City Administrator and shall deposit the
estimated cost prior to the city beginning work.
   (C)   The customer shall install and pay for all supports necessary for
attachment of the city’s service conductor.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.12 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any person may request in writing relocation or alteration of
facilities owned by the city. The city has the discretion to decide whether
such relocation or alteration will be done.
   (B)   Unless the city agrees to the contrary, customers requesting
relocation or alteration shall pay for the actual costs of relocation or
alteration and shall deposit the estimated cost prior to the city beginning
work.
   (C)   The costs of relocation or alteration shall be determined according to
the following formula.
 
E + R + C + N - F - S = Cost to Customer
E Original cost, less depreciation of facilities to be removed or abandoned
R Cost of removal work required for E
C Cost of transfer, adjustment or changes to existing facilities to remain
N Cost of new facilities and work required to meet the customer’s request
F Cost of new facilities and work the city would normally provide under these
  policies without charge to serve the customer
S Salvage value of material and equipment removed
 
   (D)   Persons requesting such relocations shall make satisfactory
arrangements for the transfer or relocation of equipment owned by any other
utility and any third party which may be involved.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.13 DUSK TO DAWN OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   All persons wanting dusk to dawn outdoor lighting shall make
application for service and pay the connection charges specified by resolution
of the City Council.
   (B)   Should such service require extension of existing city lines, such
extension may be granted upon the terms and conditions specified in §
51.02.
   (C)   Should the city agree to provide security and outdoor lighting, the
city shall furnish, install, operate and maintain in the complete lighting
installation, including wood poles, at a mutually agreeable location and shall
maintain the lighting, including lamp replacement, during the normal work week.
   (D)   The complete lighting installation shall remain the property of the
city.
   (E)   The customer shall protect the lighting equipment from deliberate
damage and shall allow the city free access to the property to maintain and
inspect the equipment at any time.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.14 RESALE PROHIBITED.
   The customer shall not resell electrical services supplied by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.14) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.15 RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND RIGHTS OF ACCESS.
   (A)   The city shall be granted, at no cost, all rights-of-way, rights of
access and easements necessary to serve the customer for the installation,
maintenance, repair, replacement, removal or use of any or all equipment or
materials used to supply and deliver electricity to the customer.
   (B)   Access at all times to the premises of the customer for the purpose of
reading meters, testing, repairing, removing or exchanging any or all equipment
belonging to the city shall be deemed granted during the time electric service
is accepted by the customer.
   (C)   The city shall be granted all necessary rights-of-way and rights of
access to perform clearing and trimming of trees, shrubs, vines or other
vegetation it deems prudent to maintain proper clearances and accessibility for
the maintenance and operation of electric services, or as may be required by
standard utility safety practices. No charges shall be made to the customer for
any clearing or trimming activities; however, the decision to trim or clear
shall be the exclusive right of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.16 METER TAMPERING.
   (A)   No person except an employee of the city in the normal course of his
or her duties shall alter, remove or make any connections to city meter or
service equipment. No meter seal may be broken by anyone other than a city
employee; provided, however, that the city may give its prior consent to seal
breaking by a customer when deemed necessary to the city.
   (B)   In case of tampering with meter installation or interfering with the
proper working thereof, or any other theft of service by any person, or
evidence of any such tampering, interfering, theft or service diversion, by
whomsoever done, including the falsification of meter readings, the customer
shall be liable to immediate discontinuance of service as provided herein. The
city shall be entitled to bill and collect from the customer the appropriate
rate for all power and energy not recorded on the meter by such tampering,
interfering or other theft of service diversion (the amount of which may be
estimated by the city from the best available data) and also for all expenses
incurred by the city on account of such unauthorized act or acts. The bill will
be paid at such reasonable time as established by the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.17 PROTECT CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   The customer shall provide sufficient space and exercise proper care
to protect the city’s property on the customer’s premises, and, in the event of
loss or damage to the city’s property on the customer’s premises arising from
neglect, carelessness or misuse by the customer, the cost of necessary repairs
or replacement shall be billed to the customer.
   (B)   The customer shall be required to install suitable protective or
control devices whenever the city deems such installation necessary to protect
its property or that of its other customers. The city reserves the right to
refuse service to any customer when delivery of service will adversely affect
service to other customers.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.18 SERVICE BY CITY.
   (A)   The city shall exercise reasonable diligence in supplying satisfactory
and continuous electric service. It is possible, however, that there may be
some degree of failure, interruptions, suspensions, curtailment or fluctuation
of service.
   (B)   The city cannot and will not guarantee constant or uninterrupted
delivery of electric service and shall have no liability to its customers or
any other persons for any interruption, suspension, curtailment or fluctuation
in utility services or for any loss or damage caused thereby when such
interruptions, suspensions, curtailment or fluctuation results from the
following or from any other causes:
      (1)   Causes beyond the city’s reasonable control, including, but not
limited to, accident or casualty, fire, flood, drought, wind, action of the
elements, court order, litigation, breakdown of or damage to facilities of the
city or of third parties, acts of God, strikes or other labor disputes, civil,
military or governmental authority, electrical disturbances originating on or
transmitted through electrical systems with which the city’s system is
interconnected and acts or omissions of third parties;
      (2)   Repair, maintenance, improvements, renewal or replacement of
facilities or any discontinuance of service which, in the city’s judgment, is
necessary to permit repairs or changes to be made in the city’s generating
source of supply, transmission or distribution facilities or to eliminate the
possibility of damage to the city’s property or to the persons or property of
others. To the extent practicable, such work, repairs or changes shall be done
in a manner which will minimize inconvenience to the customer, and, whenever
practicable, the customer shall be given reasonable notice of such work,
repairs or changes;
      (3)   Automatic or manual actions taken by the city which, in its sole
judgment, are necessary or prudent to protect the performance, integrity,
reliability or stability of the city’s electric system or any electric system
with which it is interconnected. Such actions shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the operation of automatic or manual protection equipment installed
in the city’s electric system, including, without limitation, such equipment as
automatic relays, generator controls, circuit breakers and switches; and
      (4)   Action taken by the city with respect to any plan or course of
action to conserve electric energy at times of anticipated deficiency of
resources, including, but not limited to, nonvoluntary curtailment or
suspension of utility services.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.19 COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE.
   When service is extended to a new applicant, billing shall commence as of
the date service wires are attached to applicant’s premises, except when
service has been extended for the convenience of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.20 ELECTRIC RATES.
   (A)   Each electrical user shall pay the monthly electric rates applicable
to the class of users to which that user belongs, as specified by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   The rates specified by resolution for residential electrical users
shall apply to the following premises:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings separately metered and not used for
business purposes;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings if each living unit is separately metered;
      (3)   Rooming or boarding houses where less than five rooms are used as
sleeping or living quarters for persons not members of the customer’s immediate
family; and
      (4)   Separately metered mobile homes.
   (C)   The rates specified by resolution for commercial customers shall apply
to the following premises:
      (1)   Businesses;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings, a main portion of which are regularly used
for the conduct of business. If the dwelling and the business portions of the
dwelling are separately metered, the residential portion shall be billed at the
residential rate, and the commercial portion shall be billed at the commercial
rate;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings if each living unit is not separately
metered;
      (4)   Rooming or boarding houses where five or more rooms are used as
sleeping or living quarters for persons not members of the customer’s immediate
family; and
      (5)   Mobile homes not separately metered.
   (D)   Where it is necessary to extend or reinforce existing distribution
facilities, the minimum monthly charge specified by resolution of the City
Council may be increased to assume adequate compensation for the added
facilities.
   (E)   Electrical users requiring service during a period not to exceed nine
months per year shall not pay the basic monthly charge specified by resolution
times 12 for a basic annual charge.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.21 POINT OF METERING.
   Metering shall be done on the low voltage side of the transformed bank; and
when transformers are furnished by the city, a loss factor shall be added to
both demand and energy charges. If transformers are furnished by the customer,
a discount of 10% shall apply to the demand and energy charges after loss
factor has been added. The customer shall provide the service wires required to
take energy from the point of metering.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 51.22 REDUCED RATES FOR QUALIFIED SENIOR CITIZENS.
   Any person meeting the following qualifications may apply for reduced
residential electric rates.
   (A)   Any single person 62 years of age or older whose total income, earned
or unearned, falls under an income category specified by resolution of the City
Council from all sources, including, but not limited to, income from bonds,
stocks, savings interest or other interest or dividend income of any kind, or
any couples where one spouse is 62 years of age or older and whose combined
total income, earned or unearned, falls under an income category specified by
resolution of the City Council from all sources, including, but not limited to,
income from bonds, stocks, savings interest or other interest or dividend
income of any kind, and owns no real property, personally or through any
corporation other than his or her home, is entitled to the reduced rates
specified in §
51.23.
   (B)   (1)   The qualified single person or qualified spouse shall:
         (a)   Apply for the reduced rates to the accounts receivables person,
and the applicant(s) shall make a sworn statement of their income and financial
resources. Such statement and application shall be referred to the City
Administrator for final determination of the qualifications of the applicant;
         (b)   Inform the City Administrator of any change in status affecting
his or her qualifications for such special rate; and
         (c)   File a new application at the beginning of each fiscal year and
when there is a change of address.
      (2)   The City Administrator and accounts receivable shall approve all
qualified applications.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay the rates specified in §
51.23 commencing with the first full billing period after approval and
continuing for the remainder of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. 395, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 51.23 REDUCED ELECTRIC RATES.
   The reduced electric rate for qualifying senior citizens shall be as set
forth by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. 395, passed 10-11-2004)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Service
   
52.01   Use of public sewers required
   
52.02   Private sewage disposal
   
52.03   Building sewers and connections
   
52.04   Sewer main extensions or alterations
   
52.05   Use of the public sewers
   
52.06   Damage to sewer works prohibited
   
52.07   Inspection
   
52.08   Sewer cleaning policy
Sewer User Fees, Charges and Regulations
   
52.20   Establishment of ERU
   
52.21   Sewer user fees
   
52.22   Designation of ERU
   
52.23   Recreational vehicle (RV) dumping fees
   
52.24   Sewer connection charge; deposit
   
52.25   Notification
   
52.26   New users and vacancies
SEWER SERVICE
§ 52.01 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this title.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this title, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is
within 200 feet (61 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.02 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.01, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the State Department
of Environmental Quality.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available as defined in §
52.01(D) to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this title, and
any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facility shall
be abandoned in accordance with state law at no expense to the city.
   (D)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Department of
Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.03 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Administrator.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the City Administrator, to meet
all requirements of this title.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be placed to connect to the service line and
shall be installed according to the requirements of the State Building and
Plumbing Codes, city ordinances and the Design Manual of Streets and Ways for
the city.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The city shall install a service from the main public sewer line to
the owner’s property line upon payment of the connection charges required by §
52.24 and compliance with all other provisions of this title.
   (J)   Should the City Administrator determine that special monitoring
structures or equipment are necessary, the City Administrator may require that
they be installed, and their cost and expense shall be borne by the owner.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Administrator of his or her designee the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the City Administrator or his or her representative.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard,
streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Oregon Residential Specialty Code, see O.A.R. 918-0002 et seq.
   Oregon Structural and Energy Efficiency Codes, see O.A.R. 918-460-0010 et
seq.
   Oregon Specialty Plumbing Code, see O.A.R. 918-750-0110 et seq.
§ 52.04 SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS OR ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   When a permit has been issued and an extension or alteration of
existing sewer mains is required, the city shall obtain the rights-of-way,
easements or property interests necessary to make the extension or alteration.
The costs of such acquisition shall be paid by the applicant.
   (B)   All main extensions shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
   (C)   The cost of the construction of any extension or alteration shall be
borne by the applicant, except that if the city wishes to construct a main
extension of a size larger than six inches in diameter and larger than that
determined to be necessary for the applicant’s needs, the additional costs
attributable to the main oversizing shall be borne by the city.
   (D)   The extension or alteration shall be constructed by the city or at the
City Administrator’s option, by a contractor approved by the City
Administrator. The contractor shall be required to carry liability insurance
naming the city as the insured party in an amount determined by the City
Council pursuant to §
53.02.
   (E)   If the city constructs the extension or alteration, the applicant
shall deposit with the city prior to construction either in cash or bond the
amount estimated by the City Administrator as the cost of the extension or
alteration. If the amount deposited is greater than the total cost, the amount
in excess of total cost shall be returned to the applicant.
   (F)   (1)   If the extension or alteration is constructed by a contractor
approved by the City Administrator, all construction plans must be approved by
the City Administrator and the City Engineer, and the cost of their review
shall be paid by the applicant. The City Administrator and City Engineer shall
inspect all installed pipes prior to backfilling. The applicant shall pay the
contractor directly and shall be solely responsible for the expenses incurred
in employment of the contractor and shall hold the city harmless from any
liability to the contractor whatsoever.
      (2)   The applicant shall deposit with the city in cash or bond an amount
equal to the City Administrator’s estimate of the cost of repairing all city
streets to be disturbed by construction. The cash or bond shall be returned to
the applicant upon final approval of construction by the City Administrator or
applied by the city to any damages resulting from the construction.
   (G)   Main extensions or alterations shall become the property of the city
at the time sewer from the city sewer system is turned into the main extension.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.05 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any septic tank
wastes into any public sewer, sanitary sewer or sewage works.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any recreational
vehicle (RV) waste into any public sewer, sanitary sewer or sewer works except
those designated dumping sites determined by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the City Administrator. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the City
Administrator to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the City Administrator that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the City Administrator will give consideration to such factors as to
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Administrator;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City Administrator for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Administrator as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Administrator in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes, vegetable banning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the
judgment of the City Administrator, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City Administrator
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and creating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below.
      (2)   If the City Administrator permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the City Administrator and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (H)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City Administrator, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
City Administrator and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
   (I)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (J)   (1)   When required by the City Administrator, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City
Administrator. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (K)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this title shall be determined
in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable
samples taken at said control manhole.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (L)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.06 DAMAGE TO SEWER WORKS PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this title. The City Administrator shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the City Administrator shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the owner.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 52.08 SEWER CLEANING POLICY.
   (A)   The city shall clean, maintain and repair all sewer main lines and the
portion of service lines located in the city right-of-way.
   (B)   A private property owner shall clean, maintain and repair privately
owned sewer service lines.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be installed as referred to in
§
52.05(H).
   (D)   In the event of a plugged sewer service line, the following procedures
will be followed.
      (1)   The city shall be notified of the blockage and city personnel will
be dispatched to investigate the problem.
      (2)   City personnel will check the main line upstream and downstream of
the blockage to ensure that the sewer main line is not blocked or plugged.
      (3)   If the sewer main line is blocked, city personnel shall clean the
line and return it to normal operations and check private service lines to
ensure they are operating properly and are in good working condition.
      (4)   If the private service line is blocked, city personnel will contact
and notify the resident or business and the property owner of the problem or
possible defects in the line.
      (5)   City personnel shall clean the private service line if the private
service line blockage is caused by a main line blockage. City personnel will
request written authorization from the property owner granting access to the
property and waiving the city and its personnel from any damages. Work will be
performed at an existing sewer cleanout located on the exterior of the
building.
      (6)   If no cleanout exists, city personnel shall not enter into property
owner’s building to perform cleaning work on private sewer service lines.
      (7)   If the main line is found to be clear and the private sewer service
line is plugged, the property owner shall contact a sewer line cleaning
business (plumber and the like) for assistance. City personnel may provide
names and phone numbers of sewer cleaning businesses in the area, however, they
will refrain from making recommendations.
      (8)   If the sewer line cleaning business and city personnel determine
that the blockage is located in the city right-of-way, the city will reimburse
the property owner for the city’s portion of the cost.
      (9)   In cases of extreme emergencies and a sewer cleaning business
cannot respond, city personnel may, with prior written authorization from the
property owner, clean and remove blockage of the private sewer service line.
The property owner will be billed accordingly for these services.
      (10)   (a)   As referred to in §
52.03(J), special equipment may be required to limit the damage caused by a
sewer backup or blockage.
         (b)   The city may require a sewer cleanout and a backwater valve be
installed on a private sewer service line as defined in the Oregon Plumbing
Specialty Code requirements, being O.A.R. 918- 750-0110 et seq.
      (11)   (a)   City personnel shall not discuss fault or liability with the
property owner. If property damage occurs, city personnel shall document
details and procedures and contact city’s insurance carrier for further
instructions.
         (b)   Also, city personnel shall abide by the Department of
Environmental Quality notification requirements.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 407, passed 11-13-2007)
SEWER USER FEES, CHARGES AND REGULATIONS
§ 52.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF ERU.
   There is hereby established an equitable criterion upon which to base sewer
user fees for differing user classifications by the establishment of
“Equivalent Residential Units” (ERU). The city shall conduct an historical
study of water consumption during the seven-month period from October of one
year through April of the next year, determine the average water consumption
per residential user during said period in cubic feet and that number shall
constitute one ERU. The City Council shall establish the number of cubic feet
in one ERU by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 52.21 SEWER USER FEES.
   (A)   Each customer receiving water service in that month shall pay an
additional monthly fee for sewer use. The sewer fee shall be that established
by multiplying the designated ERU set forth in §
52.22 for that customer by the sewer user rate. The City Council shall
establish the sewer user rate by resolution.
   (B)   The sewer user rate established by the City Council shall be reviewed
and revised periodically to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance,
replacement, capital expenditures and financing of the treatment works and to
maintain the equitability of the user fees charged with respect to proportional
distribution of the costs of operation and maintenance in proportion to each
customer’s contribution to the total wastewater loading of the treatment works.
   (C)   Sewer user fees, connection charges, interest and penalties shall be
deposited in a separate sewer fund and shall be used exclusively for payment of
the expenses of the sewer systems, including those related to operation,
maintenance, repair, capital improvements, bonded indebtedness, other
indebtedness and reasonable administration of the system.
(Prior Code, § 52.21) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 52.22 DESIGNATION OF ERU.
   (A)   Customers owning the following types of premises have the following
designated ERUs:
      (1)   Residential: one ERU;
      (2)   Duplex: two ERUs;
      (3)   Apartments: one ERU per apartment, whether occupied or not; and
      (4)   Mobile home, trailer or recreational vehicle park: one ERU per
space, whether occupied or not.
   (B)   The ERUs designated for all customers owning property not specified in
division (A) above shall be determined by dividing the total cubic feet of
water consumed or discharged by the owner in that month by the number of cubic
feet in one ERU as determined by resolution of the City Council. The result
shall be rounded to the nearest one-tenth of one ERU and shall be a minimum of
one ERU.
   (C)   If a commercial or industrial customer, or a customer owning premises
not specified in division (A) above, consumes water in certain months which
does not result in increased sewer use but results in a sewer user fee at least
10% greater than the customer’s average fee, the customer may, upon proof that
the increased consumption does not increase sewer usage, apply for an ERU
designation determined by dividing the customer’s monthly average consumption
by the number of cubic feet in one ERU; or by placing a flow measuring device
in the building sewer line at the customer’s expense.
   (D)   The customer’s average monthly fee and average monthly consumption
shall be determined by using figures for the most recent, October through
April, seven-month period.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 52.23 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) DUMPING FEES.
   The City Council may establish charges for the dumping of recreational
vehicle (RV) wastes at designated sites by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 52.23) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 52.24 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The following shall apply for all residential, commercial and
industrial customers for sewer service.
      (1)   Connection charges. All customers for sewer service shall pay the
sewer connection charge at the time of application for services in the amount
specified by resolution and adopted by City Council.
      (2)   Deposits. All customers for sewer service shall pay the deposit or
advanced payment charge at the time of application for services and abide by
the specific deposit requirements established by resolution and adopted by City
Council. No interest shall be paid on deposits or advanced payments.
      (3)   Lien. If payments are not made, the city may impose a lien on the
property.
   (B)   In addition, the owner shall pay the cost of any monitoring device
required by the City Administrator and any other costs or charges required by
this chapter.
   (C)   A connection permit may be denied if the applicant has an unpaid sewer
bill at another address or if there is a lien on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 52.24) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 7-8-1991;
Ord. 418, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 52.25 NOTIFICATION.
   Each user must be notified at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable
to wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, § 52.25) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 52.26 NEW USERS AND VACANCIES.
   The sewer fee charged for all occupied premises shall begin 60 days after
the sewer service becomes available or the day that connection is made to the
public sewer, whichever occurs first. The sewer fee charged for all unoccupied
premises shall begin when water service commences. Once the sewer charges
commence, no credit shall be given for vacancy unless it is demonstrated that
water service to that property from any and all sources was discontinued by
city employees, at which time the sewer fee shall be discontinued until water
service is restored. If the date upon which the charge is commenced or
discontinued does not fall on the first day of a billing period, the fee
charged shall be appropriately prorated.
(Prior Code, § 52.26) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
Water Service
   
53.01   Permit required
   
53.02   Conditions for granting water permits
   
53.03   Water connection charges and deposit; single-family residential
   
53.04   Water main extensions or alterations
   
53.05   Service connections
   
53.06   Water meters
   
53.07   Customer service lines
   
53.08   Standby service permit required
   
53.09   Standby service lines; regulations
   
53.10   Standby service line charges
Water Rates
   
53.25   Rates
   
53.26   Reduced rates for qualified senior citizens
   
53.27   Reduced water rates
   
53.28   Unlawful acts
   
53.29   Inaccurate water meters
   
53.30   More than one customer per meter
Cross-Connection Program
   
53.45   Purpose
   
53.46   Definitions
   
53.47   Application; responsibilities
   
53.48   Cross-connections regulated
   
53.49   Backflow prevention assembly requirements
   
53.50   New construction
   
53.51   Retrofitting
   
53.52   Irrigation systems
   
53.53   Thermal expansion
   
53.54   Mobile units
   
53.55   Installation requirements
   
53.56   Pressure loss
   
53.57   Fire systems
   
53.58   Temporary meters and hydrant valves
   
53.59   Plumbing Code
   
53.60   Right-of-way encroachment
   
53.61   Access to premises
   
53.62   Annual testing and repairs
   
53.63   Maintenance of assemblies
   
53.64   Responsibilities of backflow prevention assembly testers
   
53.65   Costs of compliance
   
53.66   Recovery of costs
   
53.67   Termination of service
   
53.68   Falsifying information
   
53.69   Constitutionality; saving clause
WATER SERVICE
§ 53.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall connect premises to the city water system or make a change
in water service, size or location without a permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.02 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING WATER PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect any premises to the city water system or
to make a change in water service, size or location shall apply to the City
Administrator for a permit to do so. Except where City Council action is
necessary in divisions (B), (C) and (D) below, the City Administrator shall
have the authority to grant such permits.
   (B)   The primary purpose of the city water system is to provide services to
premises within the city. The City Council may grant a permit for water service
to premises outside the city only if it finds that the city has an ample supply
of water for its own present and future use and that the service proposed would
be consistent in all respects with adopted resolutions, policies, plans and
ordinances.
   (C)   Whenever an applicant’s requirements for water are unusual, large or
necessitate considerable special or reserve equipment or capacity, the City
Council may impose special limitations or charges on the service or make
special exceptions to otherwise applicable limitations or charges, and these
provisions shall be in writing on the water service permit.
   (D)   The City Council may grant a permit where an extension or alteration
of existing water mains is required only upon a finding that the extension
would promote the public health, welfare and safety of the residents of the
city and would be consistent in all respects with adopted resolutions,
policies, plans and ordinances. Should a permit be granted where an extension
of existing water mains is required, the Council shall determine the amount of
liability insurance to be required of a contractor approved by the City
Administrator pursuant to §
53.04(D).
   (E)   The City Administrator may deny a permit if the applicant has an
unpaid water bill at that or another address or if there is a lien on the
premises by virtue of §
50.05.
(Prior Code, § 53.21) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.03 WATER CONNECTION CHARGES AND DEPOSIT; SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   The following shall apply for all residential, commercial and industrial
customers for water service.
   (A)   Connection charges. All customers for water service shall pay the
water connection charge at the time of application for services in the amount
specified by resolution and adopted by City Council.
   (B)   Deposits. All customers for water service shall pay the deposit or
advanced payment charge at the time of application for services and abide by
the specific deposit requirements established by resolution and adopted by City
Council. No interest shall be paid on deposits or advanced payments.
   (C)   Lien. If payments are not made, the city may impose a lien on the
property.
(Prior Code, § 53.22) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 343, passed 7-8-1991;
Ord. 418, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 53.04 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS OR ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   When a permit has been issued and an extension or alteration of
existing water mains is required, the city shall obtain the rights-of-way,
easements or property interests necessary to make the extension or alteration.
The costs of such acquisition shall be paid by the applicant.
   (B)   All main extensions shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
   (C)   The cost of the construction of any extension or alteration shall be
borne by the applicant except that if the city wishes to construct a main
extension of a size larger than six inches in diameter and larger than that
determined to be necessary for the applicant’s needs, the additional costs
attributable to the main oversizing shall be borne by the city.
   (D)   (1)   The extension or alteration shall be constructed by the city or
at the City Administrator’s option, by a contractor approved by the City
Administrator.
      (2)   The contractor shall be required to carry liability insurance
naming the city as the insured party in an amount determined by the City
Council pursuant to §
53.02(D).
   (E)   If the city constructs the extension or alteration, the applicant
shall deposit with the city prior to construction either in cash or bond the
amount estimated by the City Administrator as the cost of the extension or
alteration. If the amount deposited is greater than the total cost, the amount
in excess of total cost shall be returned to the applicant.
   (F)   (1)   If the extension or alteration is constructed by a contractor
approved by the City Administrator, all construction plans must be approved by
the City Administrator and the City Engineer and the cost of their review shall
be paid by the applicant.
      (2)   The City Administrator and City Engineer shall inspect all
installed pipes prior to backfilling. The applicant shall pay the contractor
directly and shall be solely responsible for the expenses incurred in
employment of the contractor and shall hold the city harmless from any
liability to the contractor whatsoever.
      (3)   The applicant shall deposit with the city in cash or bond an amount
equal to the City Administrator’s estimate of the cost of repairing all city
streets to be disturbed by construction.
      (4)   The cash or bond shall be returned to the applicant upon final
approval of construction by the City Administrator or applied by the city to
any damages resulting from the construction.
   (G)   Main extensions or alterations shall become the property of the city
at the time water from the city water system is turned into the main extension.
(Prior Code, § 53.23) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.05 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall install a service connection line between the main and
the meter. The cost of the service connection line shall be borne by the city
unless the distance between the main and the meter exceeds 30 feet in which
case the applicant shall pay the cost of the line beyond 30 feet.
   (B)   The service connection line shall be a minimum of one inch in
diameter. The applicant may request a service connection line of any pipe size
specified by resolution of the City Council, and the city shall accommodate all
reasonable requests.
(Prior Code, § 53.24) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.06 WATER METERS.
   Meters shall be placed in the city property, easement or right-of-way
nearest the premises.
(Prior Code, § 53.25) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.07 CUSTOMER SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The customer shall install a customer service line from the meter and
the service connection to the customer’s distribution system.
   (B)   The cost of installing the customer service line shall be borne solely
by the customer.
   (C)   The customer shall install in the customer service lines, after
approval by the City Administrator, a check valve to prevent backflow of water
into city mains and such additional control valves as the City Administrator
may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 53.26) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.08 STANDBY SERVICE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person or entity wishing a standby service connection shall apply for a
permit in accordance with §
53.01 and shall pay the connection charges specified by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 53.27) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.09 STANDBY SERVICE LINES; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The standby connection line shall be a minimum of two inches in
diameter.
   (B)   No person shall use water from standby connection lines for purposes
other than fire protection.
   (C)   The city assumes no responsibility for inspection or testing of fire
protection sprinkler systems, but the city shall have the right to make
inspections or tests at reasonable intervals.
(Prior Code, § 53.28) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.10 STANDBY SERVICE LINE CHARGES.
   Standby service customers shall pay a monthly charge at the rate specified
by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 53.29) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
WATER RATES
§ 53.25 RATES.
   (A)   Customers with premises inside the city limits shall pay the monthly
charges specified by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Customers with premises outside the city limits shall pay one and one-
half times the monthly water charges specified by the resolution made under
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 53.40) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.26 REDUCED RATES FOR QUALIFIED SENIOR CITIZENS.
   Any person meeting the following qualifications may apply for reduced
residential water rates.
   (A)   Any single person 62 years of age or older whose total income, earned
or unearned, falls under an income category specified by resolution of the City
Council from all sources, including, but not limited to, income from bonds,
stocks, savings interest or other interest or dividend income of any kind, or
any couples where one spouse is 62 years of age or older and whose combined
total income, earned or unearned, falls under an income category specified by
resolution of the City Council from all sources, including, but not limited to,
income from bonds, stocks, savings interest or other interest or dividend
income of any kind, and owns no real property, personally or through any
corporation other than his or her home, is entitled to the reduced rates
specified in §
53.27.
   (B)   (1)   The qualified single person or qualified spouse shall:
         (a)   Apply for the reduced rates to the accounts receivables person
and the applicant(s) shall make a sworn statement of their income and financial
resources. Such statement and application shall be referred to the City
Administrator for final determination of the qualifications of the applicant;
         (b)   Inform the City Administrator of any change in status affecting
his or her qualifications for such special rate; and
         (c)   File new applications at the beginning of each fiscal year and
when there is a change of address.
      (2)   The City Administrator and accounts receivables shall approve all
qualified applications.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay the rates specified in §
53.27 commencing with the first full billing period after approval and
continuing for the remainder of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 53.41) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 395, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 53.27 REDUCED WATER RATES.
   The reduced water rate for qualifying senior citizens shall be as set forth
by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 53.42) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 395, passed 10-11-2004)
§ 53.28 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make, assist in making or to derive the
benefits from any false application for reduced rates provided under this
chapter. In addition to other penalties provided by law, the city shall be
entitled to recover from any person or persons receiving the benefit of reduced
rates as a result of any false statement made in any application the amount
thereof, including interest at the rate of 6% per year from the date such
discounts were granted.
(Prior Code, § 53.43) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.29 INACCURATE WATER METERS.
   If any water meter is out of order or if, in the judgment of the City
Administrator, such meter is not making proper water measurement, the same
shall be promptly repaired; and the amount of water to be paid for the term
subsequent to the previous monthly reading until the meter shall be replaced in
proper condition shall be determined by averaging the amount of use for such
prior period as the City Administrator may deem just.
(Prior Code, § 53.44) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 53.30 MORE THAN ONE CUSTOMER PER METER.
   If more than one residence or business will be served through one meter, the
city may require, as a condition to issuing a permit pursuant to §
53.01, that additional water meters be installed to service each residence or
business.
(Prior Code, § 53.45) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979)
CROSS-CONNECTION PROGRAM
§ 53.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the water supply and
distribution system of the city from contamination or pollution due to any
existing or potential cross-connections and to comply with OAR Chapter 333-061-
0070 through 333-061-0074, or as amended.
(Prior Code, § 53.50) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. If a word
or term used in this subchapter is not contained in the following list, its
definition or other technical terms used shall have the meanings or definitions
listed in OAR Chapter 333 or the most recent edition of the Manual of Cross-
Connection Control published by the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research, University of Southern California (“USC”).
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. An
assembly to counteract backpressure and/or prevent backsiphonage. This assembly
must appear on the list of approved assemblies issued by the State Department
of Human Services, Health Services.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the city water
system.
   BACKFLOW. The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases or substances into the water system
of the city.
   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY TESTER. A person who has successfully completed
and maintains all requirements as established by the Department of Human
Services, Health Services to be a tester in the state.
   CERTIFIED CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL SPECIALIST. A person who has successfully
completed and maintains all requirements as established by the Department of
Human Services, Health Services to be a specialist in the state.
   CITY WATER SYSTEM. The city water system, which shall include wells,
treatment mechanisms or processes, pumping stations, reservoirs, supply trunk
or feeder lines, service lines, meters and all other appurtenances, device
lines and items necessary to the operation of the system and to supply water
service to individual property or premises and shall include the city’s potable
water with which the system is supplied.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a public water supply system of
any substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement where a potable water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other non-drinkable water system or
auxiliary system, sewer, drain conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir,
plumbing fixture, swamp coolers or any other device which contains, or may
contain, contaminated water, sewage or other liquid of unknown or unsafe
quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to the public water
system as a result of backflow. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections,
removable sections, swivel or changeover devices or other temporary or
permanent devices through which or because of which backflow may occur, are
considered to be CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The non-health hazard or health hazard or high hazard
classification that shall be assigned to all actual or potential cross-
connections.
   DHS. Department of Human Services, Health Services.
   DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR ASSEMBLY or DCDA. An assembly which consists of two
independently operating check valves which are spring-loaded or weighted. The
assembly comes complete with a shut-off valve on each side of the checks, as
well as test cocks to test the checks for tightness. It shall also be provided
with a factory bypass arrangement with a meter and a minimum of an approved
double check assembly.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY, DOUBLE CHECK ASSEMBLY,
DOUBLE CHECK or DCVA. An assembly which consists of two independently-operating
check valves which are spring-loaded or weighted. The assembly comes complete
with a resilient seated shut-off valve on each side of the checks, as well as
test cocks to test the checks for tightness.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical,
chemical or biological nature to the public potable water system or the
consumer’s potable water system that would be a danger to health.
   MOBILE UNITS.
      (1)   Units that are temporary in nature, connecting to the water system
through a hydrant, hose bib or other appurtenance of a permanent nature that is
part of the city’s water system or a permanent water service to a premises.
Examples can include, but are not limited to, the following: water trucks;
pesticide applicator vehicles; chemical mixing units or tanks; waste or septage
hauler’s trucks or units; sewer cleaning equipment; carpet or steam cleaning
equipment other than homeowner use; rock quarry or asphalt/concrete batch
plants; or any other mobile equipment or vessel that poses a threat of backflow
in the city’s water system.
      (2)   Uses that are excluded from this definition are recreational
vehicles at assigned sites or parked in accordance with other city policies
pertaining to recreational vehicles and homeowner devices that are used by the
property owner in accordance with other provisions of this, or other, city
policies pertaining to provision of water service to premises.
   NON-HEALTH HAZARD. The classification assigned to an actual or potential
cross-connection that could allow a substance that may be objectionable, but
not hazardous to one’s health, to backflow into the potable water supply.
   OAR. Oregon Administrative Rule.
   PERSON(S). A natural person (individual), corporation, company, city,
partnership, firm, limited liability company, joint venture company or city and
other such entity.
   POINT OF USE ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention within the
consumer’s water system at or near the point at which the actual or potential
cross-connection exists.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or the potability of the public or the consumer’s potable
water system, but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as
defined. The maximum intensity of pollution to which the potable water system
could be degraded under this definition would cause minor damage to the system
or its appurtenances.
   PREMISES. Any piece of property to which water service is provided,
including, but not limited to, all improvements, mobile structures and other
structures located upon it.
   PREMISES ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention at the service
connection between the public water system and the premises. This location will
be at or near the property line and downstream from the service connection
meter.
   PUBLIC WORKS FOREMAN. Supervisor of the Public Works Department.
   REDUCED PRESSURE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY or RPDA. An approved assembly consisting
of two approved reduced pressure backflow assemblies, set in parallel, equipped
with a meter on the bypass line to detect small amounts of water leakage or
use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or REDUCED PRESSURE
PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY or RP ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing two independently-
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically-operated,
mechanically-independent pressure differential relief valve located between the
check valves, and at the same time, below the first check valve. The ASSEMBLY
shall include properly located test cocks and two tightly closing shut-off
valves.
   RESIDENT. A person or persons living within the area(s) served by the city’s
water system.
   RETROFITTING. To furnish a service connection with parts or equipment made
available after the time of construction or assembly installation.
   SPECIALIST. A Department of Human Services, Health Services certified cross-
connection specialist, either employed with the city or contracted by the city.
   SUBMERGED HEADS. Irrigation sprinkling or delivery devices that are located
below the surface of the landscaped area in which they are installed.
   THERMAL EXPANSION. The pressure created by the expansion of heated water.
(Prior Code, § 53.51) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.47 APPLICATION; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   This subchapter applies throughout the city water system and to every
premises and property served by the city water system. It applies to all
premises, regardless of date of connection to the city water system. Every
owner, occupant or person in control of any concerned premises is responsible
for the terms and provisions contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.52) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.48 CROSS-CONNECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   No cross-connections shall be created, installed, used or maintained
within the area(s) served by the city water system, except in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   The specialist shall carry out or cause surveys to be carried out to
determine if any actual or potential cross-connection exists. If found
necessary, an assembly commensurate with the degree of hazard will be installed
at the service connection.
   (C)   The owner, occupant or person in control of any given premises is
responsible for all cross-connection control within the premises.
   (D)   All premises requiring isolation as stipulated by the OAR shall
install a reduced pressure backflow assembly at the service connection in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the property owner/occupant to purchase,
install, test, repair and maintain all backflow assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 53.53) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.49 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A specialist employed by or under contract with the city shall
determine the type of backflow assemblies to be installed within city’s water
system. All assemblies shall be installed at the service connection unless it
is determined by the specialist and approved by the Public Works Foreman that
it should be installed at the point of use or alternate location.
   (B)   An approved assembly shall be required in each of the following
circumstances, but the specialist is in no way limited to the following
circumstances:
      (1)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health which is handled in such a fashion as to permit entry into potable
water system, the potable water system shall be protected by an approved air
gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly;
      (2)   When the nature and extent of any activity at a premises, or the
materials used in connection with any activity at premises, or materials stored
at a premises, could contaminate or pollute the potable water supply;
      (3)   When a premises has one or more cross-connections, as that term is
defined in §
53.46;
      (4)   When internal cross-connections are present that are not
correctable;
      (5)   When intricate plumbing arrangements are present making it
impractical to ascertain whether cross-connections exist;
      (6)   When the premises has a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (7)   When entry to the premises is restricted so that surveys for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency to assure cross-
connections do not exist;
      (8)   When materials are being used such that, if backflow should occur,
a health hazard could result;
      (9)   When an appropriate cross-connection survey report form has not
been filed with the specialist or on file at City Hall;
      (10)   Any and all used water return systems;
      (11)   If a point-of-use assembly has not been tested or repaired as
required by this subchapter, the installation of a reduced pressure principle
assembly will be required at the service connection;
      (12)   There is piping or equipment for conveying liquids other than
potable city water and that piping or other equipment is under pressure and
installed and operated in a manner that could cause a cross-connection;
      (13)   When installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly is
deemed by a specialist to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of this
subchapter;
      (14)   The use of any type of chemical spray attachment connected to the
premises plumbing, including garden hose fertilizers and pesticide applicators,
is not allowed within the city’s water system without proper protection from
the potential of backflow occurring;
      (15)   The use of any type of radiator flush kits attached to the
premises plumbing is not allowed within the city’s water system without proper
protection from backflow occurring;
      (16)   Wherever reclaimed water is used on premises;
      (17)   Where there is a premises with an auxiliary water supply which is
connected directly to the city supply;
      (18)   When a service has been inactive for six months or longer, a
survey will be required by the specialist and it is determined a cross-
connection exists; and
      (19)   Wherever required by the current OAR.
(Prior Code, § 53.54) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.50 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   On all new nonresidential construction, an approved backflow assembly
shall be installed at the service connection. The type of the assembly will be
commensurate with the degree of hazard as determined by a specialist.
   (B)   When a building is constructed on commercial premises, and the end use
of the building is not determined or could change, a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly shall be installed at the service connection to
provide protection of the public water supply in the event of the most
hazardous use of the building.
(Prior Code, § 53.55) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.51 RETROFITTING.
   Retrofitting shall be required at all service connections where an actual or
potential cross-connection exists and wherever else the city deems retrofitting
necessary to comply with the OAR, this subchapter and the most current edition
of the city’s written program plan.
(Prior Code, § 53.56) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.52 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   All irrigation systems shall be protected according to Plumbing Code
regulations. In the event any system is equipped with an injector system, a
reduced pressure principle assembly will be required.
(Prior Code, § 53.57) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.53 THERMAL EXPANSION.
   It is the responsibility of the property owner, the occupant or person in
control of the property to eliminate the possibility of damage from thermal
expansion, if a closed system has been created by the installation of a
backflow prevention assembly or other appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 53.58) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.54 MOBILE UNITS.
   Any mobile unit or apparatus, as defined in §
53.46, which uses the water from any premises within the city water system,
shall first obtain a permit from the city and be inspected to assure an
approved air gap or reduced pressure principle assembly is installed on the
unit. All mobile units must use the bulk fill-up station provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.59) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.55 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assembly installations shall follow the
requirements stipulated by the city.
   (B)   The type of backflow prevention assembly required shall be
commensurate with the degree of hazard that exists and must, at all times, meet
the standards of the Department of Human Services, Health Services. All
backflow prevention assemblies required under this section shall be of a type
and model approved by the DHS.
(Prior Code, § 53.60) (Ord. 261, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.56 PRESSURE LOSS.
   Any decrease in water pressure caused by the installation of a backflow
assembly shall not be the responsibility of the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.61) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.57 FIRE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   An approved double check backflow prevention assembly shall be the
minimum protection on all new fire sprinkler systems using piping material that
is not approved for potable water use and/or that does not provide for periodic
flow-through. A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly must be
installed, if any solution other than the potable water can be introduced into
the sprinkler system. Retrofitting on fire sprinkler systems will be required
in each of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where improper maintenance has occurred;
      (2)   On all high hazard systems;
      (3)   Wherever a specialist deems necessary; and
      (4)   Wherever required by the OAR.
   (B)   In the event an assembly is installed on a designated lateral, a
detector assembly commensurate with the degree of hazard will be required.
(Prior Code, § 53.62) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.58 TEMPORARY METERS AND HYDRANT VALVES.
   (A)   Backflow protection will be required on all temporary meters and
hydrant valves before any use.
   (B)   The type of assembly will be commensurate with the degree of hazard
and will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the City Specialist.
(Prior Code, § 53.63) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.59 PLUMBING CODE.
   As a condition of water service, customers shall install, maintain and
operate their piping and plumbing systems in accordance with the State Plumbing
Specialty Code, being O.A.R. 918-750-0110 et seq., or as amended, and, if
applicable, in accordance with the city’s ordinance. If there is a conflict
between this subchapter and the Plumbing Code, the more stringent supersedes.
(Prior Code, § 53.64) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.60 RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a backflow prevention assembly
upon or within any city right-of-way except as provided in this section.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to have an assembly installed in the
right-of-way.
   (C)   A backflow prevention assembly required by the city may be installed
upon or within any city right-of-way only if the owner proves to the city that
there is no other feasible location for installing the assembly and installing
it in the right-of-way will not interfere with traffic or utilities. The city
retains the right to approve the location, height, depth, enclosure and other
requisites of the assembly prior to its installation.
   (D)   All permits required by the city’s ordinance to perform work in the
right-of-way shall be obtained.
   (E)   A property owner shall, at the request of the city and at the owner’s
expense, relocate a backflow prevention assembly which encroaches upon any city
right-of-way, when such relocation is necessary for street or utility
construction or repairs for purposes of public safety.
(Prior Code, § 53.65) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.61 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Authorized personnel of the city, with proper identification and sufficient
notice, shall have access during reasonable hours to all parts of a premises
and within the structure to which water is supplied. However, if any owner,
occupant or person in control refuses authorized personnel access to a
premises, or to the interior of a structure, during these hours for inspection,
a reduced pressure principle assembly must be installed at the service
connection to that premises.
(Prior Code, § 53.66) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.62 ANNUAL TESTING AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   (1)   All backflow prevention assemblies installed within the area(s)
served by the city shall be tested immediately upon installation and at least
annually thereafter by a DHS certified backflow assembly tester.
      (2)   All such assemblies found not functioning properly shall be
promptly repaired or replaced at the expense of the owner, occupant or person
in control of the premises. In the event an assembly is moved, repaired or
replaced, it must be retested immediately.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the persons who own the assemblies to have
the assemblies tested by a certified backflow assembly tester.
   (C)   If a backflow assembly has been installed prior to the date of this
subchapter, and it is determined by the specialist that the assembly is not
required to meet the conditions of this subchapter, testing of the assembly
will not be required. If the plumbing conditions ever change and the assembly
is required to meet the conditions stipulated in this subchapter, it will be
the responsibility of the property owner to test and maintain the assembly as
stipulated by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.67) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.63 MAINTENANCE OF ASSEMBLIES.
   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be maintained in accordance with the
requirements set out in the OAR, or as amended, and this subchapter. The
assembly owner is responsible for protecting their assembly from freezing and
vandalism.
(Prior Code, § 53.68) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.64 RESPONSIBILITIES OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTERS.
   (A)   All backflow assembly testers operating within the city’s water system
service area shall be certified in accordance with all applicable regulations
of the DHS.
   (B)   Persons certified as backflow assembly testers shall agree to abide by
all requirements of the United States Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (“OSHA”) and State Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(“OR-OSHA”); and have completed confined space entry training to enter any
confined space within the city’s water system.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of backflow assembly testers to submit
records of all backflow assembly test repairs to the city within ten days of
completing the test.
(Prior Code, § 53.69) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.65 COSTS OF COMPLIANCE.
   All costs associated with purchase, installation, surveys, testing,
replacement, maintenance, parts and repairs of the backflow prevention
assembly, and all costs associated with enforcement of this subchapter, are the
financial responsibility of the property owner, occupant or other person in
control of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 53.70) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.66 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any water customer violating any of the provisions of this
subchapter and who causes damage to or impairs the city’s water system,
including, but not limited to, allowing contamination, pollution, any other
solution or used water to enter the city’s water system, shall be liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation.
      (2)   The city shall collect from the violator for the cost incurred by
the city for any cleaning, purifying, repair or replacement work or any other
expenses caused by the violation.
      (3)   Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of
this subchapter and shall result in the termination of service.
   (B)   All costs associated with any disconnect fees resulting from the
enforcement of this subchapter are the sole responsibility of the property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 53.71) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.67 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   Failure on the part of any owner, occupant or person in control of the
premises to install a required assembly, have it tested annually and/or to
discontinue the use of all cross-connections and to physically separate cross-
connections in accordance with this subchapter is sufficient cause for the
discontinuance of public water service to the premises pursuant to OAR Chapter
333-061-0070, or as amended. In the case of an extreme emergency or where an
immediate threat to life or public health is found to exist, discontinuance or
termination of public water service to the premises shall be immediate.
(Prior Code, § 53.72) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.68 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, record,
report or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
subchapter, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
backflow assembly, device or method required under this subchapter shall (in
addition to civil and/or criminal penalties provided by state law) be subject
to the general penalty clause of the city’s written program plan.
(Prior Code, § 53.73) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 53.69 CONSTITUTIONALITY; SAVING CLAUSE.
   Should any provision, section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
subchapter, or the application of same to any person or set of circumstances,
are for any reason held to be unconstitutional, void, invalid or for any reason
unenforceable, the validity of the remaining portions of this subchapter, or
its application to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected;
thereby, it being the intent of the city in adopting and approving this
subchapter that no portion hereof or provision or regulation contained herein
shall become inoperative or fail by reason of any unconstitutionality or
invalidity of any other portion, provision or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 53.74) (Ord. 412, passed 8-10-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Applicability of state traffic laws
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Pedestrians
Administration
   
70.15   Powers of the City Council
   
70.16   Duties of law enforcement personnel
   
70.17   Temporary traffic controls
   
70.18   Criteria
   
70.19   Authority of law enforcement and fire officers
   
70.20   Evidence
   
70.21   Existing control devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 APPLICABILITY OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Violation of any provision of the State Vehicle Code, being O.R.S. Chapter
801-826, as now or hereafter constituted, shall be an offense against this
city.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, and in addition to the definitions contained
in state statutes, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A narrow street through the middle of a block.
   ANGLE PARKING. Parking where the longitudinal axes of vehicles form an angle
with the alignment of the roadway so that the vehicles are facing the curb or
side of the roadway.
   BLOCK. The part of one side of a street lying between the two nearest cross
streets.
   CURB. The extreme edge of the roadway.
   LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified hours
of specified days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled, including tractors,
fork-lift trucks, motorcycles, road building equipment, street cleaning
equipment and any other vehicle capable of moving under its own power,
notwithstanding that the vehicle may be exempt from licensing under the motor
vehicle laws.
   PARKWAY. The portion of a street not used as a roadway or as a sidewalk.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   STREET.
      (1)   The terms HIGHWAY, ROAD and STREET, when used in this title or in
the state statutes as adopted by §
70.01, shall be considered synonymous unless the context precludes such
construction.
      (2)   STREET, as defined herein and in the state statutes incorporated by
reference includes alleys, sidewalks, parking areas and accessways owned and
maintained by the city.
   TRAFFIC LANE. The portion of the roadway used for the movement of a single
line of vehicles.
   VEHICLE. As used in subsequent sections of this title, includes bicycles and
utility-type trailers.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.03 PEDESTRIANS.
   No pedestrian shall cross a street at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a marked crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.15 POWERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall exercise all municipal
traffic authority for the city except those powers specifically and expressly
delegated herein or by another ordinance.
   (B)   The powers of the Council shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Designation of through streets;
      (2)   Designation of one-way streets;
      (3)   Designation of truck routes;
      (4)   Designation of parking meter zones;
      (5)   Restriction of the use of certain streets by any class or kind of
vehicle to protect the streets from damage;
      (6)   Authorization of greater maximum weights or lengths for vehicles
using city streets than specified by state law;
      (7)   Initiation of proceedings to change speed zones;
      (8)   Revision of traffic controls and speed limits in parks; and
      (9)   Establishment, removal or alteration of the following classes of
traffic controls:
         (a)   Traffic control signals;
         (b)   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes; and
         (c)   Intersection channelization and areas where drivers of vehicles
shall not make right, left or U turns and the time when the prohibition
applies.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.16 DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   The enforcement authority designated by the City Council shall exercise the
following duties:
   (A)   Implement the ordinances, resolutions and motions of the Council;
   (B)   Cause a continual check to be made of traffic movement, congestion and
accidents on the streets of the city and, after appropriate study, submit from
time to time to the Council those recommendations which may be adopted by
resolution or ordinance;
   (C)   Keep and maintain a record showing a description of all signs and
signals now installed or hereafter installed on any street; and
   (D)   Temporarily close to vehicular or pedestrian traffic any street when
in his or her opinion it is necessary to do so because of an emergency or for
the protection of lives, limb, public safety or property or for the more
expeditious movement of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or for special
events of community interest, parades or construction in a street right-of-way.
The designated official shall cause to be placed and maintained during such
temporary closure, “No Parking,” “No Walking,” “Street Closed” or other
appropriate directional signs.
(Prior Code, § 70.16) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.17 TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the enforcement
authority designated by the City Council may install temporary traffic control
devices deemed by them to be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.18 CRITERIA.
   The administrative actions of the enforcement authority designated by the
City Council shall be based upon consideration of:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations and rules promulgated by the State Highway
Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic control standards.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.19 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND FIRE OFFICERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the enforcement authority designated by the
City Council through its officers to enforce the provisions of this traffic
code.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or
to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the enforcement authority designated by
the City Council may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding
the provisions of this traffic code.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the enforcement authority designated by the
City Council in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.20 EVIDENCE.
   The existence of a traffic control device shall be prima facie evidence that
the device was lawfully authorized and installed.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.21 EXISTING CONTROL DEVICES.
   Traffic control devices installed prior to the adoption of this traffic code
are hereby recognized as lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as may be limited by the Charter, violations of the State
Vehicle Code, being O.R.S. Chapter 801-826, adopted by reference in §
70.01 are offenses against this city and are punishable to the same extent
provided by state law.
   (B)   Violation of §§
71.01 through
71.11 of this traffic code are punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,500.
   (C)   Violation of any other section of this traffic code is punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Rules of the road
   
71.02   Speed limits in public parks
   
71.03   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
71.04   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
71.05   Unlawful riding
   
71.06   Clinging to motor vehicle
   
71.07   Use of roller skates restricted
   
71.08   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
71.09   Removing glass and debris
   
71.10   Storage of motor vehicles or personal property on streets
   
71.11   Obedience to and alteration of traffic control devices
Heavy Vehicles
   
71.25   General prohibition and exclusion
   
71.26   Exclusion allowed by permit
   
71.27   Issuance of permits
   
71.28   Permit fees
   
71.29   Insurance required of permittees
   
71.30   General provisions of permits
   
71.31   Carrying permit required
   
71.32   Permitting weighing and measurement of vehicles
   
71.33   Determining gross weights
   
71.34   Movement of building or other structure
   
71.35   Liability for damage to streets or other public property
   
71.36   Conditions governing permits
   
71.37   Posting
Parades and Processions
   
71.50   Prohibited activity
   
71.51   Permit
   
71.52   Appeal to Council
   
71.53   Permit revocable
   
71.54   Offenses against parade
   
71.55   Funeral processions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RULES OF THE ROAD.
   In addition to state law, the following shall apply to the operation of a
motor vehicle on the streets of the city.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle in the traffic lane shall have the
right-of-way over an operator of a motor vehicle departing from a parking
space.
   (B)   No operator of a motor vehicle shall pull away from a curb or other
parking area without giving an appropriate turn signal when other traffic may
be affected.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 SPEED LIMITS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated, a motor vehicle in any city
park, whether within or without the boundaries of the city, at a speed in
excess of 15 mph, or at a speed which violates the basic speed rule of the
State Vehicle Code, being O.R.S. Chapter 801-826.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by the city and in a manner prescribed by the
city, no person shall obstruct the free movement of vehicles or pedestrians
using the streets or sidewalks, including driveways.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in such a manner or location
that it constitutes a hazard to public safety or an obstruction on the street
or sidewalks, including sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No operator shall permit a passenger, and no passenger shall ride, on a
motor vehicle, on a street except on a portion of the motor vehicle designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to a person riding
within a truck body in the space intended for cargo.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The operator of a motor vehicle on a street shall not knowingly allow a
person riding on a bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates, skateboards,
sleds or other device to attach himself or herself, the vehicle or the device
to his or her motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 USE OF ROLLER SKATES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, skateboards or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any street except while
crossing at a crosswalk or upon a play street.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk or
parkway area except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No person shall place any dirt, wood or other material in the gutter
or space next to the curb of any street with the intention of using the same as
a driveway.
   (C)   No person shall remove or damage in any way any portion of any curb or
move any heavy vehicle or thing over or upon a curb or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   Any person causing glass to be broken, or any party to a collision or other
vehicle accident upon any street in this city shall immediately remove or cause
to be removed from such street all glass and other foreign substance.
(Prior Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR PERSONAL PROPERTY ON STREETS.
   No person shall store or permit to be stored on a street or other public
property without permission of the Council, a motor vehicle or personal
property. It shall constitute prima facie evidence of storage of a motor
vehicle or personal property if the same is not moved for a period of 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 71.10) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 OBEDIENCE TO AND ALTERATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall disobey the instruction of a traffic officer or a
traffic control device.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall install, move, remove, obstruct, alter
the position of, deface or tamper with a traffic control device.
(Prior Code, § 71.11) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 71.25 GENERAL PROHIBITION AND EXCLUSION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, and for any owner to
cause or permit to be driven or moved on any street in the city, any vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the limitations set
forth in this subchapter or any vehicle or combination of vehicles which are
not constructed or equipped as required by this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter governing size and weight do not
apply to any vehicle, combination of vehicles, article, machine or other
equipment while being used by the federal government, the state or any county
or city in the construction, maintenance or repair of public highways and
streets or construction, maintenance or repair of any public utility, and at
the immediate location or site of such construction, maintenance or repair.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter governing size and weight do not
apply to any vehicle, combination of vehicles, article, machine or other
equipment while being used by a contractor performing work for or moving
materials for the federal government, state or any county or city in the
construction, maintenance or repair of public highways and streets or
construction, maintenance or repair of any public utility and at the immediate
location or site of such construction, maintenance or repair.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter governing size and weight do not
apply to any vehicle, combination of vehicles, article, machine or other
equipment while being used by the federal government, state or any county,
city, fire district or ambulance service in the performance of emergency
services or training operations.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter governing size and weight do not
apply to any vehicle, combination of vehicles, article, machine or other
equipment while being used for the specific purpose of picking up or
discharging goods at any business establishment or residence located on a
street other than a designated truck route.
   (F)   The operation of any vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter is prima facie evidence that the owner of
such vehicle or combination caused or permitted it to be so operated.
(Prior Code, § 71.25) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26 EXCLUSION ALLOWED BY PERMIT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter restricting the dimensions and
weight of vehicles and combination of vehicles, and loads thereon, shall not
apply to vehicles or combinations of vehicles operated under a permit and in
compliance with the conditions and restrictions thereof.
   (B)   If movement of the vehicle or combination is only upon streets forming
a part of the state highway system, PERMIT means a permit issued by the State
Public Utilities Commission. If such movement is upon city streets not forming
a part of the state highway system, PERMIT means a permit issued by the City
Administrator with approval of the Mayor, who hereby are authorized to issue
such permits on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 71.26) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.27 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Under authority granted under §
71.26, the City Administrator, with approval of the Mayor, may grant permits
for the operation over city streets, or sections thereof, of any vehicle or
combinations of vehicles, including any load thereon with a gross weight in
excess of 40,000 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 71.27) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.28 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that loads in excess of 40,000 pounds
(see
Chapter 74, Schedule I) cause excessive wear to residential streets, which do
not need to be designed for heavy commercial and industrial traffic, and
therefore, a user tax is hereby established and levied against those persons,
firms or corporations who find a need to transport loads in excess of 40,000
pounds on streets that are not designated as truck routes. Said tax is
established and levied to maintain the streets and avenues in the city.
   (B)   The amount of said tax per trip per vehicle, combination of vehicles,
article, machine or other equipment shall be adopted by resolution. All moneys
received for said permits shall be deposited in the street fund.
(Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.29 INSURANCE REQUIRED OF PERMITTEES.
   No permit shall be issued under §
71.27 unless the applicant first provides satisfactory evidence of public
liability insurance, endorsed to name as additional insured the city, its
officers, agents and employees as to any claim or claims for damage or injury
resulting from or growing out of the operations of the applicant under the
permit applied for, and containing a further endorsement that the policy shall
not be cancelled without ten days prior written notice to the City
Administrator, the insurance to provide the following minimum limits of
coverage:
   (A)   Fifty thousand dollars to any claimant for any number of claims for
damage to or destruction of property, including consequential damages arising
out of a single accident or occurrence;
   (B)   One hundred thousand dollars to any claimant for all other claims
arising out of a single accident or occurrence; and
   (C)   Three hundred thousand dollars for any number of claims rising out of
a single accident or occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 71.29) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit issued under §
71.27 shall be valid:
      (1)   For operation over any street, or section thereof, not specified in
the permit;
      (2)   For the operation of any vehicle or combination of vehicles not
specified in the permit; or
      (3)   For the operation of any vehicle or combination of vehicles,
including any load thereon, having an overall width or length or gross weight
in excess of the maximum width, length or gross weight specified in the permit.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall make and set forth in the permit such
regulations as are necessary to prevent damaging the streets and over stressing
street facilities, and to protect the public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 71.30) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.31 CARRYING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The driver or chauffeur of any vehicle or combination of vehicles having any
gross weight in excess of that permitted under the provisions of this
subchapter, or of a size or description in excess of that permitted under the
provisions of this subchapter, shall have either a permit or a permit
identification card authorizing operation of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter in his or her
immediate possession at all times when driving the vehicle or combination of
vehicles upon a public street and shall display the same upon demand of any
officer of the enforcement authority designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.31) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.32 PERMITTING WEIGHING AND MEASUREMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Any officer of the enforcement authority designated by the City
Council may stop, measure and weigh any vehicle or combination of vehicles by
means of either portable or stationary measures and scales, and having reason
to believe that any vehicle or combination of vehicles, including any load
thereon, is unlawful, may require that such vehicle or combination of vehicles
be driven to the nearest scales, in the event such scales are within five
miles. Where it is necessary for the vehicle or combination of vehicles to
reverse direction in order to proceed to the scales, the officer of the
enforcement authority designated by the City Council shall assist the driver of
the vehicle or combination of vehicles so that the turning movement can be made
in safety.
      (2)   If he or she finds that the vehicle or combination of vehicles,
including any load thereon, is of any dimension or has any gross weight not
authorized by this subchapter or not authorized by the terms of any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, he or she shall require the driver or
chauffeur to stop the vehicle or combination of vehicles in a suitable place
and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed as may be
necessary to reduce any dimension and any gross weight to the limits authorized
by law or permit.
   (B)   The driver or chauffeur of any vehicle shall stop and submit the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to measurement and weighing and shall comply
with the directions of any officer of the enforcement authority designated by
the City Council pursuant to this section. All material or goods removed from
the load shall be removed and cared for by the driver, chauffeur or owner of
the vehicle or combination of vehicles at his or her risk.
(Prior Code, § 71.32) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.33 DETERMINING GROSS WEIGHTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining any gross weight, actual scale weights
shall govern. In the absence of information as to scale weights or of
convenient facilities for ascertaining scale weights, the weights furnished by
dealers, manufacturers or their agents, as to the weights of vehicles and parts
of vehicles, and bills of lading or cargo manifests as to weights of loads may
be accepted as the weights thereof, but such weights shall be subject at all
times to verification by actual weights subsequently ascertained.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, any gross weight may be measured
and determined according to the methods of determining gross weights contained
in the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 71.33) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.34 MOVEMENT OF BUILDING OR OTHER STRUCTURE.
   The movement of buildings or other structures over the streets and other
public ways of the city is covered under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.34) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.35 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Any person moving any vehicle of excess weight or size over, across or upon
any street or other public way in the city shall be responsible for any damage
to pavement or other public property caused thereby; and any person moving a
vehicle of excess weight or size may be required to post with the city a surety
bond or cash deposit in an amount to be fixed by the City Administrator to
adequately cover any expense which may result from such movement, as a
condition prerequisite to issuance of permit or approval under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.35) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.36 CONDITIONS GOVERNING PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Administrator may permit the operation over city streets of
combinations of vehicles having an overall length, including any load thereon,
in excess of 65 feet, for the transportation of logs, poles, piling or
structural timbers. If the movement of combinations of vehicles transporting
logs, poles, piling or structural timbers cannot be confined to the right side
of the street, then satisfactory flagging and traffic controls shall be set up
by the driver, chauffeur, company or corporation to protect and not
unreasonably delay the traveling public.
   (B)   In the issuance of permits under this section for the transportation
of logs, poles, piling or structural timbers in excess of 65 feet overall
length, the City Administrator shall require the applicant to furnish public
liability and property damage insurance as provided in §
71.29 and may require the applicant to furnish indemnification in the same
manner and for the same purposes as provided in §
71.35.
   (C)   The gross weight of any individual wheel, axle or tandem axles of any
vehicle or combination of vehicles shall not exceed the maximum gross wheel,
axle and tandem axle weights set forth by state law and the PUC Administrative
Rules.
   (D)   Any permit issued under §
71.27 may be canceled at any time by the City Administrator with the approval
of the Mayor upon proof that the permittee has violated any of the terms of the
permit, or when the public interest requires cancellation.
(Prior Code, § 71.36) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.37 POSTING.
   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to cause notice of such routes
and uses to be posted on any street or avenue within the city to carry into
effect the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.37) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 71.50 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall knowingly organize or participate in a parade, which
disrupts or interferes with traffic, without obtaining a permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.51 PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for parade permits shall be made in writing to the City
Administrator or person designated by the business manager at least two days
prior to the intended date of the parade, unless the time is waived by the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the proposed
parade;
      (2)   The date of the proposed parade;
      (3)   The desired route including assembling points;
      (4)   The number of persons, vehicles and animals which will be
participating in the parade;
      (5)   The proposed starting and ending time; and
      (6)   The application shall be signed by the responsible party.
   (C)   If the issuing authority, on receipt of the application, determines
that the parade can be conducted without endangering public safety and without
seriously inconveniencing the general public, he or she shall approve the route
and issue the permit.
   (D)   If the issuing authority determines that the parade cannot be
conducted without endangering public safety or seriously inconveniencing the
general public, he or she may:
      (1)   Propose an alternate route;
      (2)   Propose an alternate date; and
      (3)   Refuse to issue a parade permit.
   (E)   The issuing authority shall notify the applicant of his or her
decision within 24 hours of receipt of the application.
   (F)   If the issuing authority proposes alternatives or refuses to issue a
permit, the applicant shall have the right to appeal his or her decision to the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.51) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.52 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the decisions of the City Administrator or the
person designated by the City Administrator by filing a written request of
appeal with the City Administrator within two days after the issuing authority
has proposed alternatives or refused to issue a permit.
   (B)   The Council shall schedule a hearing date which shall not be later
than the five days following the filing of the written appeal with the City
Administrator and shall notify the applicant of the date and time that he or
she may appear either in person or by a representative.
(Prior Code, § 71.52) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.53 PERMIT REVOCABLE.
   The issuing authority may revoke a parade permit if circumstances clearly
show that the parade can no longer be conducted consistent with public safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.53) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 71.54 OFFENSES AGAINST PARADE.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a parade or parade
participant.
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a parade between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.54) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.55 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   A permit shall not be required to conduct a funeral procession.
   (A)   The procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the most
direct route which is both legal and practicable.
   (B)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control purposes.
   (C)   All motor vehicles in the procession shall be operated with their
lights turned on.
   (D)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (E)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
(Prior Code, § 71.55) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Application of parking regulations
   
72.02   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.03   Method of parking
   
72.04   Prohibited parking
   
72.05   Use of loading zone
   
72.06   Parking time limit
   
72.07   Lights on parked vehicle
   
72.08   Unattended vehicles
   
72.09   Exemption
   
72.10   Impoundment
   
72.11   Use of City Parking Lot at 210 North First Street
Parking Citations and Owner Responsibility
   
72.25   Citation on illegally parked vehicle
   
72.26   Failure to comply with parking citation
   
72.27   Owner responsibility
   
72.28   Registered owner presumption
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 APPLICATION OF PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions in this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times specified or as indicated on traffic control
devices, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of an officer of the
enforcement authority designated by the City Council or official traffic
control device.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.02 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Any time limit on parking shall not relieve a person from the duty of
observing other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified
times.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.03 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches
of the edge of the curb, except where the street is marked or signed for angle
parking.
   (B)   Where parking space markings are placed on a street, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle other than at the indicated direction and within a
single marked space, unless the size or shape of such vehicle makes compliance
impossible.
   (C)   Whenever the owner or driver of a vehicle discovers that such vehicle
is parked immediately in front of or close to a building to which the Fire
Department has been summoned, he or she shall immediately remove such vehicle
from the area unless otherwise directed by law enforcement or fire officers.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   In addition to provisions of the state motor vehicle laws prohibiting
parking, no person shall park or stand:
   (A)   A vehicle upon any bridge, viaduct or other elevated structure used as
a street in this city;
   (B)   A vehicle in any alley for more than 15 consecutive minutes in any
one-hour period except to load or unload persons or materials;
   (C)   A vehicle upon any street for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by
an emergency;
      (3)   Displaying advertising from such vehicle;
      (4)   Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly established
market place or when so authorized or licensed under the ordinances of this
city; or
      (5)   Storage, or as junk, or dead storage.
   (D)   A vehicle upon any parkway except where specifically authorized;
   (E)   Within an area marked by yellow paint on the street or on the curb or
when official “No Parking” signs are posted;
   (F)   Within that area between the curb or curb line and the sidewalk line
or outer edge of the sidewalk commonly known as the parking strip;
   (G)   A motor truck, truck trailer, motor home or travel trailer within an
area where “No Truck or Motor Home Parking” signs are posted; or
   (H)   A truck tractor or truck trailer, loaded or unloaded, overnight, upon
any street in the city, except in areas where “Extended Truck Parking” signs
are posted.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, freight or passengers in any place designated as a
loading zone during the hours when the provisions applicable to loading zones
are in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Maximum parking time limits designated by sign for a block shall apply
to parking in the block, not merely to parking in one or more particular
parking spaces in the block.
   (B)   No person in charge of a vehicle may extend the permissible time for
parking the vehicle in the block by causing the vehicle to be moved from one
parking space to another in the block without being removed from the block.
   (C)   The operator of the vehicle or its registered owner shall be regarded
as prima facie in charge of it.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   No lights need be displayed upon any vehicle parked in accordance with this
traffic code and upon any street where there is sufficient light to reveal any
person or object.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   Whenever an officer of the enforcement authority designated by the City
Council shall find a motor vehicle parked or standing unattended with the
ignition key in the vehicle, the officer is authorized to remove the key from
the vehicle and deliver the key to the person in charge of the police station.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of a city department or public utility
while necessarily in use for construction, maintenance or repair work on the
street or any vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the
collection, transportation or delivery of United States mail.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.10 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is placed in a manner or location that constitutes
an obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, an officer of the
enforcement authority designated by the City Council shall order the owner or
operator of the vehicle to remove it. If the vehicle is unattended, the officer
may cause the vehicle to be towed and stored at the owner’s expense. The owner
may redeem the vehicle by paying to the city and/or county all costs of towing
and storage. The owner shall be liable for the costs of towing and storage,
notwithstanding that the vehicle was parked by another or that the vehicle was
initially parked in a safe manner but subsequently became an obstruction or
hazard.
   (B)   The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude the issuance of a
citation for violation of a provision of this traffic code.
   (C)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever an officer of the enforcement authority designated by
the City Council observes a vehicle parked in violation of a provision of this
traffic code or state law, if the vehicle has four or more unpaid parking
violations outstanding against it, the officer may, in addition to issuing a
citation, cause the vehicle to be impounded.
      (2)   The owner may redeem the vehicle by paying to the city and/or
county all costs of towing and storage, amounts due for all unpaid parking
citations, unpaid court bail or fines and any other outstanding charges.
   (E)   After impoundment, the officer of the city responsible for impoundment
shall attempt to notify the owner of the impounded vehicle of the vehicle’s
impoundment and of the owner’s right of redemption.
   (F)   Any motor vehicle impounded and not redeemed within 30 days after
impoundment may be sold in accordance with applicable provisions relating to
the sale of abandoned vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.11 USE OF CITY PARKING LOT AT 210 NORTH FIRST STREET.
   (A)   Parking in the City Parking Lot at 210 North First Street is limited
to four consecutive hours and to the hours between 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
Parking in excess of these limits is allowed only if a permit has been issued
by the city.
   (B)   (1)   Advertising, selling or offering merchandise for sale in the
City Parking Lot at 210 North First Street is allowed only if a permit
authorizing such activities has been issued by the city.
      (2)   Permits authorizing the advertising, selling or offering of
merchandise for sale in the City Parking Lot shall only be issued to a
nonprofit or governmental organization.
      (3)   No permit is to be issued unless the permittee first waives any and
all claims against the city for liability for property damage and personal
injury based on allegations of negligence and agrees to indemnify and hold the
city harmless from any such claims brought by third persons which arise out of
the permittee’s use of the City Parking Lot.
   (C)   The City Administrator is directed to post signs at the entrance of
the City Parking Lot stating the restrictions on the use of the City Parking
Lot contained in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   A person commits the offense of violation of posted parking
restrictions in the City Parking Lot, if without a permit issued by the city:
      (1)   The person parks a vehicle in the City Parking Lot in violation of
the posted parking restrictions contained in this section; or
      (2)   The person is the owner of an unattended vehicle parked in the City
Parking Lot in violation of the posted parking restrictions contained in this
section.
   (E)   A person commits the offense of unlawful parking for vending purposes,
if, without a permit issued by the city, the person parks or leaves standing in
the City Parking Lot a vehicle for the purpose of advertising, selling or
offering merchandise for sale.
   (F)   A person commits the offense of unlawful vending in the City Parking
Lot if, while in the City Parking Lot without a permit issued by the city, the
person advertises, sells or offers merchandise for sale.
   (G)   (1)   Violation of divisions (D), (E) or (F) above is punishable by a
fine for each violation. All vehicles parked in violation of this section may
be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense as provided in the state
statutes.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution of the owner of a
vehicle that the use of the vehicle was not authorized by the owner, either
expressly or by implication.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING CITATIONS AND OWNER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 72.25 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle without an operator is found parked in violation of a
restriction imposed by this traffic code, the officer finding the vehicle shall
take its license number and any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its owner and shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a
traffic citation for the operator to answer to the charge against him or her or
pay the fee imposed within five days during the hours and at a place specified
in the citation.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.26 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING CITATION.
   If the operator does not respond to a parking citation affixed to a vehicle
within a period of five days, the clerk of the court may send to the owner of
the vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed, a letter informing him
or her of the violation and warning him or her that in the event the letter is
disregarded for a period of ten days, a warrant for his or her arrest will be
issued.
(Prior Code, § 72.21) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.27 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of a vehicle parked in violation of a parking restriction shall be
severally responsible for the offense, except that it is an affirmative offense
to a prosecution of the owner of a vehicle that the use of the vehicle was not
authorized by the owner, either expressly or by implication.
(Prior Code, § 72.22) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 72.28 REGISTERED OWNER PRESUMPTION.
   In a prosecution of a vehicle owner charging a violation of a restriction on
parking, proof that the vehicle at the time of the violation was registered to
the defendant shall constitute a presumption that he or she was then the owner
in fact.
(Prior Code, § 72.23) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Application of traffic code
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Bicycle parking
   
73.04   Impounding of bicycles
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC CODE.
   Every person riding a bicycle within the corporate limits of the city shall
be subject to the provisions of this traffic code and state law applicable to
the driver of a motor vehicle, except those provisions which by their very
nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than with his or her feet
on the pedals and facing the front of the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 BICYCLE PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street or upon a sidewalk except in a
rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at the curb in such manner
as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of 24 hours
may be impounded by the enforcement authority designated by the City Council.
   (B)   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation of
this subchapter may be immediately impounded.
   (C)   If a bicycle impounded under this traffic code is licensed, or other
means of determining its ownership exists, the enforcement authority designated
by the City Council shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner.
   (D)   A bicycle impounded under this traffic code which remains unclaimed
shall be disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of
abandoned or lost personal property.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use, drive or
operate any vehicle weighing 40,000 pounds or more or combinations of vehicles
having an overall length, including load thereon, in excess of 65 feet upon any
street of the city except the following streets and avenues which are hereby
designated as city truck route streets or avenues.
Street Location
Street         Location
Applegate      From Cedar Street to Fir Street
Avenue
“B” Avenue From North First Street to Pass Creek Bridge
East
“B” Avenue First Street to Cedar Street and 4th Street
West
Cedar Street   From the south city limits to West “B” Avenue
Date Street    From Payton Avenue to Applegate Avenue
Elder Street   From Payton Avenue to Applegate Avenue
First Street   From “A” Avenue to north city limits
North
Highway #38 to From intersection of Cedar Street and “B” Avenue to west city
Reedsport      limits
Lane Avenue     
Payton Avenue  From Cedar Street to Fir Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. I) (Ord. 402, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Animals or domestic fowl not to run at large
   
90.02   Molesting or injuring wild life
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals
   
90.04   Number of animals allowed
   
90.05   Rats and mice
   
90.06   Animal-related habitats and nuisances
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Dogs at large prohibited
   
90.22   Barking and howling dogs prohibited
   
90.23   Dog waste matter
   
90.24   Abandoned dogs
   
90.25   Sick or injured dogs
   
90.26   Impoundment of dogs; disposition of impounded dogs; redemption and sale
   
90.27   Killing and chasing livestock
   
90.28   Dangerous animals
   
90.29   Reporting of biting dogs or other animals
   
90.30   Biting and rabid dogs and other animals; quarantine
   
90.31   Vicious dogs
   
90.32   Dead dogs; removal of carcasses
   
90.33   Entry onto private land
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ANIMALS OR DOMESTIC FOWL NOT TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No person who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats,
swine or domestic fowl shall permit or allow the same to run or be at large or
to be on or enter the premises of another person.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 MOLESTING OR INJURING WILD LIFE.
   No person shall molest, kill or injure wild life within a city park or on
city property.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall beat, misuse, torture, deprive of food or water or otherwise
treat an animal in a cruel manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED.
   (A)   No more than ten total chickens or ducks are allowed on property
smaller than one-half acre. For properties one-half acre or larger, no more
than 20 total chickens or ducks are allowed.
   (B)   Roosters and capons are prohibited within city limits regardless of
the size of the property.
   (C)   No more than five rabbits are allowed on property smaller than one-
half acre. For properties one-half acre or larger, no more than ten rabbits are
allowed.
   (D)   No fowl larger than a chicken or duck are allowed within city limits.
This includes, but is not limited to, geese, turkeys, guinea and peacocks. Any
fowl smaller than a chicken must follow the number of chickens or ducks
allowed.
   (E)   No more than two pet pigs are allowed within city limits, regardless
of the size of the real property. Pet pigs must be miniature breeds only.
   (F)   (1)   Keeping of livestock is prohibited on property inside city
limits.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (F), LIVESTOCK includes, but is
not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep, llamas, alpacas,
ostriches, emus and the like.
(Ord. 439, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RATS AND MICE.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying any property within city limits shall
allow a condition to exist upon the property that attracts rats or mice, gives
rats or mice access to food or creates shelter accessible for rats or mice.
   (B)   Such prohibited conditions shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Keeping of any animal so that feces, refuse, food or shelter
associated with the keeping of the animal affords food or shelter to rats or
mice; and/or
      (2)   Allowing any accumulation of rubbish, trash, junk or other
materials that by reason of its decayed or unused condition affords shelter to
rats or mice.
(Ord. 439, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL-RELATED HABITATS AND NUISANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Animal-related habitats must be maintained in a condition as to
not create a nuisance for neighbors.
      (2)   No coop, poultry run or any other structure or enclosure that
houses animals shall be located closer than five feet from a rear or side lot
line, and not closer than 20 feet from any dwelling or other structure capable
of being used for human habitation, not including the owner’s dwelling.
      (3)   No excessive odors, noise, piles of animal waste or other nuisance
that deprives a neighbor or other person of residential livability, peace and
quiet are allowed.
      (4)   Proper sanitation shall be maintained in conformance with
applicable health standards for all animals.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PROPER SANITATION includes:
      (1)   Not allowing animals waste to accumulate;
      (2)   Not allowing animal waste to contaminate groundwater or drainage
ways;
      (3)   Taking the necessary steps to ensure odors resulting from animals
are not detectable beyond the property line; and
      (4)   Storing all animal food in metal or other rodent-proof containers.
(Ord. 439, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED DOG. Any dog left without proper food and water for a period of
over 24 hours, or any barking dog without supervision for over a period of over
24 hours.
   AT LARGE. A dog or other animal inside the corporate limits of the city, off
the premises of the owner and not under complete control by adequate leash.
Excepted from this definition are dogs in obedience or field training exercises
under the direct supervision of a handler in areas designated and posted by the
city.
   BARKING DOG. A dog which persistently barks or howls and thereby
unreasonably deprives a person of peace and quiet.
   COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL. A place of business for the care of dogs, including,
but not limited to, the boarding, grooming, breeding, training or selling of
dogs. The term is not intended to include an animal hospital or a non-
commercial kennel.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal, other than a dog, which has the propensity to
bite or attack any person without provocation and the capacity to inflict
serious harm on that person. It shall be presumed that any animal, other than a
dog, which has injured a human being on two occasions without provocation is a
dangerous animal.
   DOG CONTROL AUTHORITY. The dog control enforcement authority appointed by
the county. A dog control officer is an officer of the DOG CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   DOG OWNER. Any person, firm, association or corporation who is the licensed
owner of a dog, or who has a right of property in a dog, or who harbors a dog
or who has it in his or her care, possession, custody or control, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on any premises occupied by him or her.
Except for purposes of §§
90.21,
90.22,
90.24 and
90.29, OWNER does not include veterinarians or commercial kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises for a period of not more than 30 days
dogs owned by other persons. Any person, except a veterinarian or commercial
kennel operator, who resides where a dog is kept, harbored or cared for shall
be presumed to be the OWNER of that dog. This presumption may be rebutted by
proof that such person has no property right in the dog, is not the licensed
owner and is neither harboring nor caring for the dog.
   LEASH. Any humane device constructed of rope, leather strap, chain or other
sturdy material not exceeding eight feet in length, being held in the hand of a
person capable of controlling the animal to which it is attached.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, horses, goats, swine, fowl, poultry and any fur-
bearing animal bred and maintained commercially or otherwise within pens, cages
and hutches.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which has the propensity to bite or attack any person
without provocation and the capacity to inflict serious harm on that person
shall be regarded as VICIOUS. It shall be presumed that any dog which has
bitten a human being on two occasions without provocation is a VICIOUS DOG.
   WATCHDOG. A vicious dog confined at a business or commercial establishment
to protect merchandise, inventory or equipment.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 90.21 DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No dog owner shall permit a dog to be at large.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 BARKING AND HOWLING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own a dog that barks consistently for more than ten
consecutive minutes.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 439, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 DOG WASTE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for a dog owner to allow the dog to deposit solid waste
matter on any improved property other than that of the dog owner. It shall be a
defense to this section if the dog owner immediately removes the solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 ABANDONED DOGS.
   (A)   No dog owner shall permit his or her dog to be abandoned.
   (B)   Any peace officer or dog control officer may:
      (1)   Provide food and water to abandoned dogs. The dog owner shall pay
for such services; and
      (2)   Impound any abandoned dog. As soon as practical, notice of
impoundment under this section shall be posted at the house or be mailed to the
owner, or if the owner is unknown, to the address at which the dog was found
and impounded.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 SICK OR INJURED DOGS.
   (A)   Any sick or injured dog found by a peace or dog control officer off
the premises of its owner shall be delivered to its owner. Any such dog for
which the owner is either unknown or cannot be reached after reasonable
attempts to do so shall be delivered by the dog control authority to a
veterinarian for medical treatment. Upon delivery to a veterinarian, the
following procedures shall apply.
      (1)   When the dog is unlicensed and the owner is unknown, the
veterinarian shall determine whether the dog is so severely injured or
incurably crippled that the humane thing to do would be to destroy the dog. If
a determination is made to destroy the dog, the dog may be destroyed
immediately. If the veterinarian determines instead that the dog should be
given treatment, such treatment may be given; provided, however, that the dog
may be destroyed if unclaimed by its owner within 72 hours after being
delivered to the veterinarian.
      (2)   When the dog is licensed or the owner is known and cannot be
reached, the veterinarian shall determine whether the dog is so severely
injured or incurably crippled that the humane thing to do would be to destroy
the dog. If a determination is made to destroy the dog, the dog may be
destroyed immediately. If the veterinarian determines instead that the dog
should be given treatment, such treatment may be given; provided, however, that
the dog may be destroyed if unclaimed by its owner within 120 hours after being
delivered to the veterinarian.
   (B)   Any peace officer or dog control officer may humanely destroy any dog
too severely injured to move and not on the property of its owner, when the
owner is either unknown or cannot be reached after reasonable attempts to do
so.
   (C)   Arrangements for fees, selection of veterinarians, liability of
veterinarians and the like shall be as determined by separate contracts between
the dog control authority and individual veterinarians.
   (D)   The owner shall pay for any reasonable medical expenses incurred in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS; DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS; REDEMPTION AND
SALE.
   (A)   (1)   Any peace officer or dog control officer may impound a dog that
is in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The dog control authority shall impound a dog if the owner of the
dog has net posted bail or paid a fine for a violation of this chapter imposed
by the Municipal Judge. For any dog so seized the notice and disposition of the
dog shall be in the same manner as for licensed dogs under the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   Any person whose property has been trespassed upon by any dog in
violation of this chapter may immediately apprehend that dog upon his or her
premises and hold the dog until delivery to a dog control officer or to any
peace officer. Any person who so impounds a dog must immediately notify the dog
control authority of such impoundment.
   (B)   (1)   The dog control authority shall keep any dog impounded for the
period of time hereinafter specified. A daily record of such dogs shall be kept
at the place of impoundment and shall be made available to the public. The dog
control authority shall dispose of such dogs in accordance with the following
provisions.
         (a)   An unlicensed dog or a dog for which the owner is unknown which
has not been redeemed within 72 hours after impoundment may be sold or
destroyed.
         (b)   A licensed dog or a dog for which the owner is known which has
not been redeemed within 120 hours of notification of the owner by telephone
contact or by mailing of impoundment notice may be sold or destroyed.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(a) above, the dog control
authority shall notify the owner by telephone or by the mailing of an
impoundment notice as soon as practicable after impoundment. The impoundment
notice shall advise the owner of the place where the dog is kept, the
procedures required for the redemption of the dog, the fees for the
impoundment, daily care and redemption and the consequences of failure to
redeem the dog.
      (3)   A dog owner whose dog is impounded as a vicious dog under §
90.31, within the period described in divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above,
whichever is applicable, believing himself or herself aggrieved by the seizure
and impounding of his or her dog, may apply to the Municipal Judge for the
release of his or her dog, and the Municipal Judge shall thereupon set a time
and place for hearing the application and notify the impounding officer, and,
upon a summary hearing, the Municipal Judge shall have full power to determine
whether the dog has been wrongfully impounded, and whether it shall be returned
to its owner, and upon what terms.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the previous sections, any dog given to the dog
control authority by the owner for disposal may be destroyed immediately or, in
the alternative, sold to any person (dogs specifically requested by the owner
to be destroyed shall be destroyed).
   (C)   (1)   Redemption of an impounded dog shall be made by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and by paying the following required fees and
charges:
         (a)   Impoundment fee of $20;
         (b)   Daily care fee of $3.50 (per day maximum);
         (c)   License and rabies vaccination fees, if required; and
         (d)   Medical care fees, if required.
      (2)   Impounded dogs may be sold.
      (3)   When a dog is sold by the dog control authority, the purchaser
shall pay any required license and rabies vaccination.
      (4)   No impoundment charge shall be made for a dog released after the
municipal court’s determination that no violation occurred.
      (5)   No live dog shall be sold by the dog control authority for surgical
or medical demonstration or vivisection.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided, if after 120 hours an impounded dog
cannot be sold, the dog control authority is authorized and empowered to
destroy the dog by any humane method permitted under state law.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 KILLING AND CHASING LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No dog owner shall permit his or her dog to chase, kill, wound or
injure livestock not belonging to the dog owner while off the premises owned or
under the control of the dog owner.
   (B)   If any dog not under the control of any person is found chasing
livestock not the property of its owner, it shall be deemed prima facie as
engaged in killing, wounding or injuring livestock.
   (C)   No person shall own any dog with knowledge that it has killed or
wounded livestock.
   (D)   No owner shall permit a dog to be at large and to chase livestock not
belonging to the dog owner.
   (E)   A dog found to have chased, killed, wounded or injured livestock in
violation of this section shall be impounded and disposed of in accordance with
§
90.26.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person, firm, association or corporation who is the owner of a
dangerous animal, or who has a right of property in, or who harbors, has in his
or her care, possession, custody or control a dangerous animal, shall allow a
dangerous animal to be exposed to the public.
   (B)   A dangerous animal which has been exposed to the public may be
impounded by any peace officer or dog control officer and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter for the impoundment and
disposition of dogs, except, before a dangerous animal is released, the
Municipal Judge must enter findings that proper precautions will be taken to
ensure the public health and safety.
   (C)   A dangerous animal running at large which because of its disposition
or diseased condition is too hazardous to apprehend may be destroyed by a peace
officer, dog control officer or by a person acting in defense of himself or
herself, his or her family or another person.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 REPORTING OF BITING DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of a dog or other animal which bites a human being shall
immediately notify the dog control authority of such bite, the time and
circumstances of such bite and the name and address of the person bitten, if
known.
   (B)   Any person who is bitten by a dog or other animal shall forthwith
notify the dog control authority of such bite, giving a description of the dog
or other animal, the time and circumstances of the bite and the name and
address of the owner, if known. When a doctor, veterinarian, hospital employee
or other person has information that a person has been bitten by a dog or other
animal, such person shall forthwith notify the dog control authority.
(Prior Code, § 90.24) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 BITING AND RABID DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   (1)   When either the dog control authority or the County Departments
of Public Health and Sanitation or Public Safety has grounds to suspect that a
dog or other animal is infected with the disease of rabies, there shall be
delivered to the owner of the dog or other animal a written notice thereof.
      (2)   The owner shall thereupon be required to quarantine the dog or
other animal for ten days.
      (3)   The biting of any person by the dog or other animal shall
constitute adequate grounds for suspecting the dog or other animal to be so
infected.
      (4)   The delivery of the notice to a member of the owner’s family 14
years of age or older at the premises where the dog or other animal is kept or
at the owner’s usual place of abode, shall be considered a delivery of the
notice to the owner. Any dog or other animal required to be quarantined shall
be confined as follows:
         (a)   On the owner’s premises in such a manner as to prevent it from
being in contact with any other animal or person; or
         (b)   At the owner’s expense in a veterinary hospital, the County
Humane Society or a kennel approved by the dog control authority.
   (B)   Any animal that has been bitten by a dog or other animal proved to be
rabid shall be destroyed.
   (C)   If a dog or other animal exhibits symptoms of rabies while it is under
quarantine, the Director of Public Health may order in writing that it be
destroyed and that its head be submitted to the State Public Health Laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 90.25) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 90.31 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Except for licensed watchdogs, no person shall own a vicious dog.
   (B)   A vicious dog may be impounded by any peace officer or dog control
officer and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for
the impoundment and disposition of dogs.
   (C)   A vicious dog running at large which because of its disposition or
diseased condition is too hazardous to apprehend may be destroyed by a peace
officer, dog control officer or by a person acting in defense of himself or
herself, his or her family or another person.
(Prior Code, § 90.26) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 DEAD DOGS; REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   No person shall knowingly permit a dog carcass owned by him or her to remain
on public property, or to be exposed on private property, for more than 24
hours.
(Prior Code, § 90.27) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE LAND.
   Any dog control officer or any peace officer shall have the privilege of
entering onto private land in the course of the officer’s duties in enforcing
the provisions of this chapter, but such officer shall not enter into any
building or dwelling without legal authorization or permission of the owner or
occupant of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 90.28) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
90.23,
90.29 and
90.32 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $10.
   (C)   Violation of §§
90.21,
90.22,
90.24 and
90.30 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $25.
   (D)   Violation of §§
90.01,
90.30 and
90.31 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $50.
   (E)   Violation of §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06 and
90.27 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $250.
   (F)   Violation of §§
90.02,
90.03 and
90.28 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 439, passed 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Creation of cemeteries
   
91.02   Map and dedication
   
91.03   Certificate for burial lots
   
91.04   Records
   
91.05   Interment
   
91.06   Rules and regulations
   
91.07   Perpetual Care Trust Fund
   
91.08   Cemetery General Operating Fund
   
91.09   Disinterment
§ 91.01 CREATION OF CEMETERIES.
   All property now owned or hereafter acquired by the city may be used as
public burial grounds. Any city property so used shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 91.02 MAP AND DEDICATION.
   (A)   A map or plat of all property used as public burial grounds shall be
prepared and recorded in the real property records of the county. The city
shall declare that the property delineated on the map or plat shall be used
exclusively for cemetery purposes.
   (B)   Copies of the map and plat shall be kept on file at City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 91.03 CERTIFICATE FOR BURIAL LOTS.
   (A)   Any person wishing to reserve or use a burial lot in a cemetery owned
by the city shall apply to the City Administrator for a burial lot certificate.
The burial lot certificate may be used for interment of the person obtaining
it, their spouse or children, or interment of other person assigned to the lot.
Assignment must be completed by person obtaining the burial lot certificate or
surviving family member.
   (B)   The city shall issue a certificate upon payment of the perpetual care
fee established by resolution of the Council. This certificate shall be signed
by the Mayor and City Administrator. The city shall retain a copy of each
certificate issued in the city records. The perpetual care fee is non-
refundable.
   (C)   One hundred percent of the perpetual care fee shall be credited to the
Perpetual Care Trust Fund.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 376, passed 3-8-1999;
Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 RECORDS.
   The city shall maintain a record book containing the following information:
   (A)   A record of each burial lot reserved, the date of reservation, the
name and address of the person reserving the lot and the person for whom the
lot is reserved;
   (B)   The name of the deceased person buried in each burial lot;
   (C)   The date and place of death; and
   (D)   The date of burial.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 91.05 INTERMENT.
   (A)   No interment shall be made without a burial permit obtained from the
city. The application for interment shall include a written authorization by
the person qualified under O.R.S. 97.120.
   (B)   No burial permit shall be issued unless a burial lot certificate has
been obtained and the perpetual care fee has been paid.
   (C)   No lot shall be used for any purpose other than burial of human
remains.
   (D)   All grave sites containing a casket shall be required to have a one-
piece liner (no sectionals), preferably made of reinforced concrete (includes
cement vaults and cement grave boxes).
   (E)   Only one casket per burial lot, however, in the East Cemetery (new and
old sections) it is permitted to bury one casket and one urn (urn in a casket,
urn in a casket that has been exhumed or urn buried on top of a casket) or two
urns per burial lot.
   (F)   All urns and urn vaults for direct burial shall be made of metal
(bronze, copper, aluminum) or durable material that will not decompose or be
easily crushed from the weight of equipment.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Council may adopt by resolution, rules and regulations for the
use, care control, management, restriction and protection of municipal
cemeteries.
   (B)   Copies of these rules and regulations shall be maintained on file at
City Hall.
   (C)   No person shall violate the provisions of the cemetery rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 PERPETUAL CARE TRUST FUND.
   All monies received for and credited to the Perpetual Care Trust Fund, shall
be held by the City Administrator as trustee and shall be invested as provided
by law. The principal and income from such trust fund, shall be held in the
Perpetual Care Trust Fund until the City Council determines otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 91.08 CEMETERY GENERAL OPERATING FUND.
   The City Council may appropriate money from the city’s General Fund
necessary to maintain and operate the municipal cemeteries for each fiscal year
and any such sums shall be deposited into the Cemetery General Operating Fund.
The monies in this account may be expended for the development, improvement,
upkeep and care of cemeteries and for the acquisition of additional cemetery
lands.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 91.09 DISINTERMENT.
   No body once buried may be removed except upon notification of the City
Administrator and payment of the disinterment fee established by resolution of
the Council. This fee shall be credited to the Perpetual Care Fund.
(Prior Code, § 91.09) (Ord. 367, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 417, passed 7-11-2011)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
92.01   Open burning prohibited
   
92.02   Exceptions
   
92.03   Vegetative debris burning
   
92.04   Odor and other nuisances
   
92.05   North Douglas County Fire and EMS
 
   
92.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.01 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Open burning is prohibited within the city from July 1 through
September 30 of each calendar year and as may be further restricted by the
County Fire Protective Association, the State Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) or the North Douglas County Fire and EMS.
   (B)   The following exceptions apply:
      (1)   Propane, natural gas or briquette barbecues used exclusively for
cooking that meet applicable federal, state and local requirements;
      (2)   Fires set or permitted by any public agency when such fire is set
or permitted in the performance of its official duty; and
      (3)   The North Douglas Homecoming Bonfire with North Douglas County Fire
and EMS and County Fire Protective Association Approval.
(Ord. 432, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities are allowed throughout the year but are prohibited
from July 1 through September 30 or if restricted as in § 92.15:
   (A)   Recreational fires located in an approved campsite and contained in
provided fire pits;
   (B)   Outdoor (hearth) fireplaces, burn barrels and chimneys (chimney patio
fireplaces) with spark arrestors or other approved means to stop embers
(screens on chimneys, burn barrels and other openings and the like); and
   (C)   Vegetative debris burning as outlined in § 92.17.
(Ord. 432, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.03 VEGETATIVE DEBRIS BURNING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, VEGETATIVE DEBRIS includes grass
clippings, leaves, limbs, twigs, cut trees and shrubbery.
   (B)   No uncut vegetation may be burned.
   (C)   Burning of materials other than vegetation, including, but not limited
to, tires, furniture or other household garbage or rubbish is prohibited and
subject to a fine.
   (D)   A person may burn vegetative debris in a burn pile subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The burn will be supervised by an adult.
      (2)   Burning will take place only when wind speed and direction will not
adversely affect visibility on roadways.
      (3)   The burning area will be cleared of all growth.
      (4)   No utility lines are located overhead of the burn pile.
      (5)   A water supply or fire retardant is readily available to extinguish
the fire. A garden hose attached to a working hose bib or a minimum of a five-
pound fire extinguisher needs to be within arm’s length to the fire.
      (6)   No open flame is allowed to be on or within 15 feet of a structure
or within five feet of a fence.
      (7)   The total area of the fire will be three feet or less in diameter
and two feet or less in height.
      (8)   Burning is not started till 7:00 a.m. and is extinguished by 8:00
p.m.
(Ord. 432, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.04 ODOR AND OTHER NUISANCES.
   No person shall burn anything that is not permitted to be burned by this
code. To do so is considered a nuisance and is subject to abatement as provided
by this code. No person shall burn household waste, garbage, plastic, Styrofoam
or other noxious material as defined by this code. Any burning of any of the
items listed in this section or any other material that emits a noxious odor or
dangerous element into the air is a nuisance and is subject to abatement as
provided in this code. No person shall accumulate or allow to accumulate
material which in the judgment of the city or Fire District constitute a fire
hazard. Any such accumulation is a nuisance and subject to abatement as
provided in this code.
(Ord. 432, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.05 NORTH DOUGLAS COUNTY FIRE AND EMS.
   North Douglas County Fire and EMS has the right to proactively file a
complaint directly to the Sheriff’s office using this subchapter.
(Ord. 432, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Violation of §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall be considered an infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $50 nor more than $250. Any act prohibited by §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall be considered a nuisance subject to immediate and summary abatement
by city personnel. Costs of an abatement shall be assessed against any person
who violates the provisions of§§
92.01 through
92.05 and shall be imposed in addition to any fine.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 432, passed 8-13-2018)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Nuisances affecting the public
Obnoxious Vegetation
   
93.15   Definitions; prohibitions; abatement
   
93.16   Waiver
   
93.17   Notice
Abatement Procedures
   
93.30   Notice
   
93.31   By a person responsible
   
93.32   By the city
   
93.33   Joint responsibility
   
93.34   Assessment of costs
   
93.35   Separate from penalty
   
93.36   Summary abatement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, tenant, contract
purchaser or other person having possession or control of property or the
supervision of a construction project on the property.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR ABATING A NUISANCE.
      (1)   The owner of the property on which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   The person in charge of that property; and/or
      (3)   The person who causes the nuisance to come into or continue in
existence.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.02 NUISANCES AFFECTING THE PUBLIC.
   No person shall cause or permit a nuisance on public or private property.
The following are nuisances which may be abated as provided in this chapter.
   (A)   Animal carcasses and the like. The deposition of an animal carcass or
part thereof, or any excrement or sewage, or industrial waste, or any putrid,
nauseous, decaying, deleterious, offensive or dangerous substance in a stream,
well, spring, brook, ditch, pond, river or other inland waters within the city,
or the placing of such substances in such position that high water or natural
seepage will carry the same into such waters.
   (B)   Attractive nuisances.
      (1)   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit thereon:
         (a)   Unguarded machinery, equipment or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children;
         (b)   Lumber, logs or pilings placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children; and/or
         (c)   An open pit, quarry, cistern or other excavation without
safeguards or barriers to prevent such places from being used by children.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to authorized construction
projects with reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing
children.
   (C)   Debris. An accumulation of decomposed animal or vegetable matter,
garbage, rubbish, manure, offal, ashes, discarded containers, waste, paper,
debris, trash, hay, grass, straw, weeds, litter, rags or other refuse matter or
substance which by itself or in conjunction with other substances is
deleterious to public health or comfort, or is unsightly, or creates an
offensive odor.
   (D)   Fences.
      (1)   A fence, barrier, partition or obstruction electrically charged or
connected with any electric source in such a manner as to transmit an
electrical shock or charge to any person, animal or thing which might come in
contact therewith.
      (2)   A barbed-wire fence along a sidewalk or public way except barbed
wire placed on top of fences to prevent access to enclosed hazardous areas.
   (E)   Iceboxes and other containers. An abandoned, unattended or discarded
icebox, refrigerator or other container accessible to children which has an
airtight door, or lock which may not be released for opening from the inside.
This division (E) does not include iceboxes, refrigerators or other containers
offered for sale by commercial establishments provided that the same are kept
within enclosures from which children are excluded at all times except business
hours.
   (F)   Odors. Premises which are in such a state or condition as to cause an
offensive odor or which are in an unsanitary condition.
   (G)   Privies and the like. A privy, vault, cesspool, septic tank or drain
which emits a noisome and offensive smell, or which is prejudicial to public
health.
   (H)   Stagnant water. An accumulation of stagnant or impure water which
affords or might afford a breeding place for mosquitoes or other insects.
   (I)   Trees. A dead or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or to
persons or property on or near the property.
   (J)   Vision obstructions.
      (1)   A tree, shrub, bush or plant higher than 18 inches above the crown
of the adjacent roadway in that portion of the roadway between the property
line and the curb line within 25 feet from the intersection of curb lines, if
extended, at any street, avenue or highway intersection.
      (2)   Where curbs have not been established, no such use of street area
shall be made within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines if extended
at any street, avenue or highway intersection. For the purpose of this division
(J), the terms BUSH, SHRUB or PLANT shall include climbers and other vegetation
growing upon or supported by poles, wires or trellises.
   (K)   Others. Any other thing, substance, condition or activity prohibited
by state law, common law, this chapter, other ordinances or which is determined
by the Council to be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety or
welfare of the city.
   (L)   Abandoned vehicles.
      (1)   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit thereon the
parking, storing or leaving of any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any
kind which is in a rusted, wrecked, junked or partially dismantled or
inoperative or abandoned condition, whether attended or not:
         (a)   For more than 72 hours but less than 30 days unless the vehicle
is completely screened from public view; or
         (b)   For more than 30 days unless the vehicle is completely enclosed
within a building.
      (2)   The prohibitions in this division (M) do not apply if the vehicle
is maintained by a business enterprise authorized to maintain such vehicles
under the land use laws and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. 331, passed 7-11-1988)
Penalty, see §
93.99
OBNOXIOUS VEGETATION
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS; PROHIBITIONS; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OBNOXIOUS VEGETATION. Does not include an agricultural crop, unless that
crop is a health hazard or a fire or traffic hazard within the meaning of this
section. OBNOXIOUS VEGETATION includes:
      (1)   Poison oak;
      (2)   Poison ivy;
      (3)   Blackberry bushes that extend into a public thoroughfare or across
a property line;
      (4)   Vegetation that is:
         (a)   A health hazard;
         (b)   A fire hazard because it is near other combustibles; or
         (c)   A traffic hazard because it impairs the view of a public
thoroughfare or otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare hazardous.
      (5)   Weeds more than ten inches high; and
      (6)   Grass more than ten inches high and not within the exception stated
in this section.
   (B)   Except as §
93.16 provides to the contrary, no owner or person in charge of property may
allow obnoxious vegetation to be on the property or in the right-of-way of a
public thoroughfare abutting on the property. Obnoxious vegetation so located
is a public nuisance.
   (C)   In accordance with §§
93.30 through
93.36:
      (1)   The city may abate the nuisance; and
      (2)   The costs that the city incurs in the abatement may be charged
against the owner or person in charge or against the property itself.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 WAIVER.
   Where strict compliance with the requirements of §
93.15 would be impracticable as they apply to a type or height of weeds or
grass, to height of tree branches, or to a part of a parcel of property, the
City Administrator may waive those requirements as they so apply.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.17 NOTICE.
   Between May 1 and June 15 of each year the City Administrator shall cause to
be published three times in a newspaper of general circulation in the city a
copy of §
93.15 as a notice to all owners and persons in charge of property of their duty
to keep their property free of obnoxious vegetation. The notice shall state
that the city is willing to abate such a nuisance on any particular parcel of
property at the request of the owner or person in charge of the property, for a
fee sufficient to cover the city’s costs of such abatement. The notice shall
also state that, even in the absence of such requests, the city intends to
abate all such nuisances ten or more days after the final publication of the
notice and to charge the cost of doing so on any particular parcel of property
to the owner thereof, the person in charge thereof or the property itself.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 93.30 NOTICE.
   (A)   If the City Administrator is satisfied that a nuisance exists, he or
she shall cause a notice to be posted on the premises or at the site of the
nuisance directing a person responsible to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   At the time of posting, the City Administrator shall cause a copy of
the notice to be forwarded by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to
any person responsible at his or her last known address.
   (C)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten days from the date of
the notice;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that unless the nuisance is removed, the city may abate
the nuisance and the cost of abatement shall be charged to the person
responsible and/or assessed against the property;
      (5)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may result in a court
prosecution; and
      (6)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the City Administrator within ten days from the date
of the notice.
   (D)   Upon completion of the posting and mailing, the persons posting and
mailing shall execute and file certificates stating the date and place of the
mailing and posting respectively.
   (E)   An error in the name or address of a person responsible shall not make
the notice void, and, in such case, the notice shall be sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 93.30) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.31 BY A PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Within ten days after the posting and mailing of the notice as
provided in §
93.30, a person responsible shall remove the nuisance or show that no nuisance
exists.
   (B)   A person responsible protesting that no nuisance exists shall file
with the City Administrator a written statement specifying the basis for
protesting.
   (C)   (1)   The statement shall be referred to the Council as a part of its
regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
consideration of the abatement, the person protesting may appear and be heard
by the Council, and the Council shall determine whether or not a nuisance in
fact exists, and the determination shall be entered in the official minutes of
the Council.
      (2)   Council determination shall be required only in those cases where a
written statement has been filed as provided.
   (D)   If the Council determines that a nuisance does in fact exist, a person
responsible shall, within ten days after the Council’s determination, abate the
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.31) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.32 BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If within the time allowed, the nuisance has not been abated by a
person responsible, the Council may cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (B)   The officer charged with abatement of the nuisance shall have the
right at reasonable times to enter into or upon property in accordance with law
to investigate or cause the removal of a nuisance.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include
therein all direct and indirect costs.
(Prior Code, § 93.32) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. 344, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 93.33 JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is responsible, they shall be jointly and severally
liable for abating the nuisance or for the costs incurred by the city in
abating the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.33) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.34 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Administrator, by registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, shall forward to a person responsible a notice stating:
         (a)   The total cost of abatement including all direct and indirect
costs; and
         (b)   The cost as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice.
      (2)   If the person responsible objects to the cost of the abatement as
indicated, he or she may file a written notice of objection with the City
Administrator not more than ten days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of ten days after the date of the notice, the
Council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and determine the
objections to the costs assessed.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice, an assessment of the costs as stated or as determined by
the Council shall be made by resolution and shall thereupon be entered in the
docket of city liens; and, upon such entry being made, shall constitute a lien
upon the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements and shall bear interest at the same rate as street improvements.
The interest shall commence from date of the entry of the lien in the lien
docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of a person responsible shall not void the
assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the proposed assessment
render the assessment void, but it shall remain a valid lien against the
property.
(Prior Code, § 93.34) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. 344, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 93.35 SEPARATE FROM PENALTY.
   The requirement to abate a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance; however, abatement by a
person responsible for a nuisance within ten days of the date of notice to
abate, or if a written protest has been filed, then abatement within ten days
of Council’s determination that a nuisance exists, will excuse the person
responsible from prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 93.35) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.36 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedure provided by this subchapter is not exclusive but is in
addition to procedures provided by other laws, and the City Administrator may
proceed summarily to abate a health or other nuisance which unmistakably exists
and which imminently endangers human life, health or property.
(Prior Code, § 93.36) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any section of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $200.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 290, passed 8-10-1981)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS
      
112.   BUSINESS LICENSES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Permit required
   
110.03   Application for permits
   
110.04   Application fee
   
110.05   Issuance of permit
   
110.06   Conditions of permit
   
110.07   Revocation of permit
   
110.08   Council hearing
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Patriotic, philanthropic, social service, welfare, benevolent,
educational, civic or fraternal.
   CHARITABLE SOLICITATION. The request, either directly or indirectly, for
money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the
representation that such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other
thing of value will be used for a charitable purpose.
   MERCHANT. A person whose business is dealing in goods or services.
   PEDDLER or ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person who, as principal or as agent of
another, goes from place to place or house to house, carrying for sale, goods,
wares, merchandise or services to persons other than merchants or selling or
offering to sell for future delivery by sample or catalog, at retail, to
persons who are not merchants, goods, wares, merchandise or services.
   TEMPORARY MERCHANT. A person who, at a fixed but temporary location within
the city, offers for sale goods, wares, merchandise or services, or sells or
offers to sell for future delivery by sample, catalog or description, at
retail, goods, wares, merchandise or services, to persons who are not
merchants. It is intended to apply to persons who expect to act as a merchant
in the city for a limited period of time without establishing a permanent place
of business within the city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who conducts or participates in the selling
or offering for sale of goods, wares or merchandise from a fixed place of
business temporarily maintained in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982; Ord. 353, passed 10-9-1995)
§ 110.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in business as a peddler, itinerant merchant or
temporary merchant without first obtaining a permit from the City
Administrator.
   (B)   No person shall engage in charitable solicitation without first
obtaining a permit from the City Administrator unless the solicitation is made
for an organization operating exclusively for charitable purposes and not for
the pecuniary profit of any person and is conducted among the members of the
organization by members of the organization voluntarily and without
remuneration.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982; Ord. 353, passed 10-9-1995)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit for charitable solicitation. An applicant for a permit to
engage in charitable solicitation not exempt from the application requirement
pursuant to Revenue Code §
3.105(2), shall submit an application to the City Administrator. The
application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and the purpose for which the permit is
sought;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization;
      (3)   Whether or not commissions, fees, wages or emoluments are to be
expended in connection with such solicitation and the amount thereof;
      (4)   The period during which solicitation is to be carried on and the
areas of the city to be covered;
      (5)   The names of all members or representatives who will be soliciting;
and
      (6)   The name and address of the representative of the organization
designated to receive notice from the city.
   (B)   Permit to engage in business as peddler, itinerant merchant or
temporary merchant. An applicant for a permit to engage in business as a
peddler, itinerant merchant or temporary merchant shall submit an application
to the City Administrator. The application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s true name, permanent address and an address which
the city may use for purposes of notifying the applicant;
      (2)   The true name and address of a person for whom the applicant is
acting as agent. If the applicant is acting as the agent of a corporation:
         (a)   The address of the registered office of the corporation in the
state; and
         (b)   The name and address of the registered agent of the corporation
in the state.
      (3)   A description of the nature of the business operation the applicant
will conduct;
      (4)   A description of the goods, wares, merchandise or services the
applicant will offer for sale;
      (5)   The location, if any, from which the applicant will operate, or a
statement of the applicant’s intention to operate by going from place to place
or house to house; and
      (6)   The length of time the applicant will conduct the business and the
hours of operation.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982; Ord. 353, passed 10-9-1995)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   An applicant for a permit shall pay a fee of $50.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until this fee has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982; Ord. 350, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the City Administrator finds that the procedures set forth in Revenue
Code §§
3.110 through
3.120 have been complied with, the City Administrator shall issue the permit
unless the City Administrator finds that the information provided by the
applicant is false or misleading or that the applicant’s proposed activity will
present a danger to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
citizens of the city which cannot be alleviated through the imposition of a
condition of operation.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 110.06 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Conditions of operation that are necessary to protect the public
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the city may be
imposed on a permit.
   (B)   All permits shall also be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The permit shall be valid only for the period of time for which it
is issued, and both the beginning and ending of the period shall be stated on
the permit. No permit shall be valid for a period of longer than 30 days.
Permit renewals shall have a non-renewal period of 30 days following the last
day of original permit period. Permittee shall be entitled to a maximum of 60
days in any calendar year.
      (2)   The permit is not transferable.
      (3)   Conduct of the permittee shall conform with the statements made in
the application and any special conditions of operation imposed on the permit.
      (4)   The permittee shall carry and upon request, display the permit when
engaged in activities permitted under the permit. The permittee shall abide by
all applicable city, state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982; Ord. 350, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City Administrator may revoke the permit if the permittee fails to
comply with or violates any of the provisions of Revenue Code §§
3.110 through
3.130, by sending the permittee notice at the address specified in the permit
application that, unless the permittee appeals the action within ten days of
the notice, the permittee will no longer be able to operate as of the tenth day
after notice is sent.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 110.08 COUNCIL HEARING.
   A permittee who receives notice that a permit is being revoked may appeal
the revocation by notifying the City Administrator within ten days of the date
of the notice, in writing, of a request for a hearing before the City Council.
The hearing shall be held at the next regularly or specially scheduled Council
meeting. The permittee may continue to operate until the hearing takes place.
The Council shall determine after hearing whether the permit should be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §
110.02 is punishable by a fine of not less than $50 but not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Engaging in an activity for which a permit has been revoked is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or confinement in jail not to exceed
100 days, or both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 295, passed 6-14-1982)
CHAPTER 111: TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Purpose
   
111.002   Jurisdiction and management of the public rights-of-way
   
111.003   Regulatory fees and compensation not a tax
   
111.004   Definitions
Registration of Telecommunications Carriers
   
111.015   Purpose of registration
   
111.016   Registration required
   
111.017   Registration fee
   
111.018   Exceptions to registration
Construction Standards
   
111.030   General
   
111.031   Construction codes
   
111.032   Construction permits
   
111.033   Permit applications
   
111.034   Applicant’s verification
   
111.035   Construction schedule
   
111.036   Construction permit fee
   
111.037   Issuance of permit
   
111.038   Compliance with permit
   
111.039   Restoration of public rights-of-way and city property
Location of Telecommunications Facilities
   
111.050   Interference with the public rights-of-way
   
111.051   Relocation or removal of facilities
   
111.052   Removal of unauthorized facilities
Telecommunications Franchise
   
111.065   Telecommunications franchise
   
111.066   Application
   
111.067   Application and review fee
   
111.068   Determination by the city
   
111.069   Rights granted
   
111.070   Term of grant
   
111.071   Franchise fee
   
111.072   Renewal applications
   
111.073   Renewal determinations
   
111.074   Obligation to cure as a condition of renewal
   
111.075   Assignments or transfers of system or franchise
   
111.076   Revocation or termination of franchise
   
111.077   Notice and duty to cure
   
111.078   Public hearing
   
111.079   Standards for revocation or lesser sanctions
   
111.080   Other city costs
General Franchise Terms
   
111.095   Facilities
   
111.096   Damage to grantee’s facilities
   
111.097   Duty to provide information
   
111.098   Service to the city
   
111.099   Compensation for city property
   
111.100   Cable franchise
   
111.101   Obligation to modify or extend service
   
111.102   Grantee insurance
   
111.103   General indemnification
Additional Legal Provisions
   
111.115   Governing law
   
111.116   Written agreement
   
111.117   Nonexclusive grant
   
111.118   Severability and preemption
   
111.119   Other remedies
   
111.120   Captions
   
111.121   Compliance with laws
   
111.122   Consent
   
111.123   Application to existing ordinance and agreements
   
111.124   Confidentiality
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of the 1996 Telecommunications Act as they
apply to local governments, telecommunication carriers and the services those
carriers offer;
   (B)   Promote competition on a competitively neutral basis in the provision
of telecommunications services;
   (C)   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public rights-of-way of the
city for telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis and
conserve the limited physical capacity of those public rights-of-way held in
trust by the city;
   (D)   Assure that the city’s current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating private access to and the use of the public rights-of-way are fully
compensated by the persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
   (E)   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the city and its residents
for permitting private use of the public right-of-way; and
   (F)   Assure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities and/
or services within the city register and comply with the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.002 JURISDICTION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over all
public rights-of-way within the city under the authority of the City Charter
and state law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY include, but are
not limited to, streets, roads, highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails,
paths, public easements and all other public ways or areas, including the
subsurface under and air space over these areas.
   (C)   (1)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management
over each public right-of-way whether the city has a fee, easement or other
legal interest in the right-of-way.
      (2)   The city has jurisdiction and regulatory management of each right-
of-way whether the legal interest in the right-of-way was obtained by grant,
dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosure or
other means.
   (D)   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights-of-way by
franchises and permits.
   (E)   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory management of a public
right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way and
does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
   (F)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the public rights-of-way of the
city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in
response to a public health or safety emergency.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.003 REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX.
   (A)   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter, and any compensation
charged and paid for use of the public rights-of-way provided for in this
chapter, are separate from, and in addition to, any and all federal, state,
local and city charges as may be levied, imposed or due from a
telecommunications carrier, its customers or subscribers, or on account of the
lease, sale, delivery or transmission of telecommunications services.
   (B)   (1)   The city has determined that any fee provided for in this
chapter is not subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI, §§ 11 and
11b of the state Constitution.
      (2)   These fees are not imposed on property owners, and these fees are
not new or increased fees.
      (3)   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter are subject to
applicable federal and state laws.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words not
defined shall be given the meaning set forth in the Communications Policy Act
of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., as amended, the Cable
Telecommunications Policy Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996 being 47
U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   CABLE SERVICE. Defined consistent with federal laws and means the one-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming or other programming service;
and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use
of such video programming or other programming service.
   CITY. The City of Drain, Oregon, a state municipal corporation, and
individuals authorized to act on the city’s behalf.
   CITY PROPERTY. All real property owned by the city, other than public
rights-of-way and utility easements as those are defined in this chapter, and
all property held in a proprietary capacity by the city which are not subject
to right-of-way franchising as provided in this chapter.
   FRANCHISE. An agreement between the city and a grantee which grants a
privilege to use public rights-of-way and utility easements within the city for
a dedicated purpose and for specific compensation.
   GRANTEE. The person, company or business to which a franchise is granted by
the city.
   GROSS REVENUES. Revenues derived from the provision of exchange access
services, as defined in O.R.S. 403.105(11), which originate or terminate in the
city on facilities covered by the franchise or license granted by the city,
less net uncollectibles from such revenues.
   OVERHEAD OR ABOVEGROUND FACILITIES. Utility poles, utility facilities and
telecommunications facilities above the surface of the ground, including the
underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
   PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK.
      (1)   A system, including the construction, maintenance or operation of
the system, for the provision of a service or any portion of a service which is
owned or operated exclusively by a person for their use and not for resale,
directly or indirectly.
      (2)   PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK includes services provided by
the state pursuant to O.R.S. 190.240 and 283.140.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including the subsurface under and air space over
these areas. This definition applies only to the extent of the city’s right,
title, interest or authority to grant a franchise to occupy and uses such areas
for telecommunications facilities. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall also include
utility easements as defined below.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission between and among points, specified by
the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Any provider of telecommunications services,
including every person that directly or indirectly owns, controls, operates or
manages telecommunications facilities within the city.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The plant and equipment, other than customer
premises equipment, used by a telecommunications carrier to provide
telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Two-way switched access and transport of voice
communications but does not include:
      (1)   Services provided by radio common carrier;
      (2)   One-way transmission of television signals;
      (3)   Surveying;
      (4)   Private telecommunications networks; or
      (5)   Communications of the customer which take place on the customer
side of on-premises equipment.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS
§ 111.015 PURPOSE OF REGISTRATION.
   The purpose of registration is:
   (A)   To assure that all telecommunications carriers who have facilities
and/or provide services within the city comply with the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city;
   (B)   To provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers who offer to provide telecommunications
services within the city, or that own or operate telecommunications facilities
within the city; and
   (C)   To assist the city in the enforcement of this chapter and the
collection of any city franchise fees or charges that may be due the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.016 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in §
111.018, all telecommunications carriers having telecommunications facilities
within the corporate limits of the city and all telecommunications carriers
that offer or provide telecommunications service to customer premises within
the city shall register.
      (2)   The appropriate application and license from the State Public
Utility Commission (PUC) or the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) qualify
as necessary registration information.
   (B)   Applicants also have the option of providing the following
information:
      (1)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including the
name, address and telephone number of the duly authorized officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration information;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number for the duly authorized
officer, agent or employee to be contacted in case of an emergency; and
      (3)   A description of the registrant’s existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the city, a description of the
telecommunications facilities that the registrant intends to construct and a
description of the telecommunications services that the registrant intends to
offer or provide to persons, firms, businesses or institutions within the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.017 REGISTRATION FEE.
   Each application for registration as a telecommunications carrier shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable registration fee in an amount to be established
by resolution by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.018 EXCEPTIONS TO REGISTRATION.
   The following telecommunications carriers are excepted from registration:
   (A)   Telecommunications carriers that are owned and operated exclusively
for its own use by the state or a political subdivision of this state; and
   (B)   A private telecommunications network; provided, that such network does
not occupy any public rights-of-way of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 111.030 GENERAL.
   No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation or
operation of telecommunications facilities within a public right-of-way except
as provided in this chapter, and construction must comply with all applicable
codes, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 111.20) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.031 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated and
maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local codes,
rules and regulations, including the National Electrical Code and the National
Electrical Safety Code.
(Prior Code, § 111.21) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.032 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall construct or install any telecommunications facilities
within a public right-of-way without first obtaining a construction permit and
paying any construction permit fee established by the city.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within a public right-of-way:
      (1)   Unless the telecommunications carrier has first filed a
registration statement with the city; and if applicable; and
      (2)   Unless the telecommunications carrier has first applied for and
received a franchise pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.22) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.033 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permits to construct telecommunications facilities shall be
submitted upon forms to be provided by the city and shall be accompanied by
drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   (A)   The facilities will be constructed in accordance with the franchise
agreement;
   (B)   The location and route of all facilities to be installed aboveground
or on existing utility poles;
   (C)   The location and route of all new facilities on or in the public
rights-of-way, to be located under the surface of the ground; and
   (D)   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures and facilities within or adjacent to the public rights-of-
way and description of any improvements that the applicant proposes to
temporarily or permanently remove or relocate.
(Prior Code, § 111.23) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.034 APPLICANT’S VERIFICATION.
   All permit applications shall be accompanied by the verification of a
registered professional engineer, or other qualified and duly authorized
representative of the applicant, that the drawings, plans and specifications
submitted with the application comply with applicable technical codes, rules
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 111.24) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.035 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   All permit applications shall be accompanied by a written construction
schedule, which shall include a deadline for completion of construction.
(Prior Code, § 111.25) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.036 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE.
   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, prior to issuance of a
construction permit, the applicant shall pay a permit fee in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council. Such fees shall be designed to
defray the cost of city administration of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.26) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.037 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If satisfied that the applications, plans and documents submitted comply
with all requirements of this chapter and the franchise agreement, the City
Administrator shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities,
subject to such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the
time, place and manner of performing the work as the City Administrator may
deem necessary or appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 111.27) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.038 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 111.28) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.039 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   When a permittee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work in
or affecting any public rights-of-way or city property, it shall, at its own
expense, promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and restore such ways or
property to good order and condition unless otherwise directed by the city.
   (B)   (1)   If the permittee fails to restore rights-of-way or property to
good order and condition, the city shall give the permittee written notice and
provide the permittee a reasonable period of time not exceeding 30 days to
restore the rights-of-way or property.
      (2)   If, after said notice, the permittee fails to restore the rights-
of-way or property to as good a condition as existed before the work was
undertaken, the city shall cause such restoration to be made at the expense of
the permittee.
   (C)   A permittee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flaggings, attendants, lights, flares and other measures as
required for the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent
injury or damage to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in
or affecting such rights-of-way or property.
(Prior Code, § 111.29) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
LOCATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 111.050 INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No grantee may locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so
as to unreasonably interfere with the use of the public rights-of-way by the
city, by the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be present
in or upon the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   All use of public rights-of-way shall be consistent with city codes,
ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 111.40) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.051 RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   Except in the case of an emergency, within 60 days following written notice
from the city, a grantee shall, at no expense to the city, temporarily or
permanently remove, relocate or alter the position of any telecommunications
facilities within the public rights-of-way whenever the city shall have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for:
   (A)   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any city or
other public improvement in or upon the public rights-of-way;
   (B)   The operations of the city or other governmental entity in or upon the
public rights-of-way; and/or
   (C)   The public interest.
(Prior Code, § 111.41) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.052 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES.
   Within 30 days following written notice from the city, any grantee,
telecommunications carrier or other person that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized telecommunications system, facility or related appurtenances
within the public rights-of-way of the city shall, at its own expense, remove
such facilities or appurtenances from the public rights-of-way of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.42) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
§ 111.065 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE.
   A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public rights-of-way of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.50) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.066 APPLICATION.
   Any person that desires a telecommunications franchise must register as a
telecommunications carrier and shall file an application with the City
Administrator which includes the following information:
   (A)   The identity of the applicant;
   (B)   A description of the telecommunications services that are to be
offered or provided by the applicant over its telecommunications facilities;
   (C)   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services proposed; and
   (D)   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the city that the applicant intends to use,
lease or construct.
(Prior Code, § 111.51) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.067 APPLICATION AND REVIEW FEE.
   (A)   Subject to applicable state law, applicants shall reimburse the city
for such reasonable costs as the city incurs in entering into the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   (1)   An application and review fee in an amount to be established by
resolution of the City Council shall be deposited with the city as part of the
application filed pursuant to §
111.066.
      (2)   Expenses exceeding the deposit will be billed to the applicant or
the unused portion of the deposit will be returned to the applicant following
the determination granting or denying the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 111.52) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.068 DETERMINATION BY THE CITY.
   The city shall issue a written determination granting or denying the
application in whole or in part. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
(Prior Code, § 111.53) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.069 RIGHTS GRANTED.
   No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall convey any right, title
or interest in the public rights-of-way, but shall be deemed a grant to use and
occupy the public rights-of-way for the limited purposes and term, and upon the
conditions stated in the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 111.54) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.070 TERM OF GRANT.
   Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of five years.
(Prior Code, § 111.55) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.071 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Each franchise granted by the city is subject to the city’s right,
which is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be
paid for the privileges granted; provided, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a grantee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid.
   (B)   The compensation shall be subject to the specific payment terms and
conditions contained in the franchise agreement and applicable state and
federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 111.56) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.072 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this chapter shall, not
less than 180 days before expiration of the current agreement, pay a renewal
application fee in an amount established by resolution of the City Council and
file an application with the city for renewal of its franchise which shall
include the following information:
   (A)   The information required pursuant to §
111.066; and
   (B)   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the city and the grantee.
(Prior Code, § 111.57) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.073 RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Within 90 days after receiving a complete application under §
111.072, the city shall issue a written determination granting or denying the
renewal application in whole or in part, applying the following standards:
      (1)   The financial and technical ability of the applicant;
      (2)   The legal ability of the applicant;
      (3)   The continuing capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate
the applicant’s existing and proposed facilities;
      (4)   The applicant’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and the franchise agreement;
      (5)   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies; and
      (6)   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public rights-of-way will serve the community interest.
   (B)   If the renewal application is denied, the written determination shall
include the reasons for non-renewal.
(Prior Code, § 111.58) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.074 OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL.
   No franchise shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in
the grantee’s performance of the agreement, or of the requirements of this
chapter, have been cured or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken
by the grantee has been approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.59) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.075 ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF SYSTEM OR FRANCHISE.
   Ownership or control of a majority interest in a telecommunications system
or franchise may not, directly or indirectly, be transferred, assigned or
disposed of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of the grantee,
by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior consent of the city, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and then only on such
reasonable conditions as may be prescribed in such consent.
   (A)   The grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the franchise
or system shall agree, in writing, to assume and abide by all of the provisions
of the franchise.
   (B)   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has
the legal, technical, financial and other requisite qualifications to own, hold
and operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in a franchise agreement, the grantee shall
reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs and expenses
reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer or assign
a telecommunications franchise.
   (D)   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications franchise, without
prior approval of the city under this section or pursuant to a franchise
agreement, shall be void and is cause for revocation of the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 111.60) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.076 REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchise to use or occupy public rights-of-way of the city may be revoked
for the following reasons:
   (A)   Construction or operation in the city or in the public rights-of-way
of the city without a construction permit;
   (B)   Failure to comply with §
111.075 with respect to sale, transfer or assignment of a telecommunications
franchise or system;
   (C)   Misrepresentation by or on behalf of a grantee in any application to
the city;
   (D)   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public rights-of-
way;
   (E)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required pursuant to this
chapter;
   (F)   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due the
city under this chapter;
   (G)   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee;
   (H)   Violation of material provisions of this chapter; and
   (I)   Violation of the material terms of a franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 111.61) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.077 NOTICE AND DUTY TO CURE.
   In the event that the city believes that grounds exist for revocation of a
franchise, the city shall give the grantee written notice of the apparent
violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise statement of the
nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance and providing the
grantee a reasonable period of time not exceeding 30 days to furnish evidence
that:
   (A)   Corrective action has been, or is being actively and expeditiously
pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance;
   (B)   Rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; and/or
   (C)   It would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or sanction
less than revocation.
(Prior Code, § 111.62) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.078 PUBLIC HEARING.
   In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the city as provided in §
111.077, the City Administrator may refer the apparent violation or
noncompliance to the City Council. The City Council shall provide the grantee
with notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
(Prior Code, § 111.63) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.079 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS.
   (A)   If persuaded that the grantee has violated or failed to comply with
material provisions of this chapter, or of a franchise agreement, the City
Council shall determine whether to revoke the franchise, or to establish some
lesser sanction and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent and
gravity of the violation as reflected by one or more of the following factors.
   (B)   Whether:
      (1)   The misconduct was egregious;
      (2)   Substantial harm resulted;
      (3)   The violation was intentional;
      (4)   There is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements;
      (5)   There is a history of overall compliance; or
      (6)   The violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Prior Code, § 111.64) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.080 OTHER CITY COSTS.
   All grantees shall, within 30 days after written demand therefor, reimburse
the city for all reasonable direct and indirect costs and expenses incurred by
the city in connection with any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of
the franchise or any franchise agreement consistent with applicable state and
federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 111.65) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
GENERAL FRANCHISE TERMS
§ 111.095 FACILITIES.
   Upon request, each grantee shall provide the city with an accurate map or
maps certifying the location of all telecommunications facilities within the
public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 111.70) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.096 DAMAGE TO GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
   Unless directly and proximately caused by willful, intentional or malicious
acts by the city, the city shall not be liable for any damage to or loss of any
telecommunications facility within the public rights-of-way of the city as a
result of or in connection with any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling or work of any kind in the public
rights-of-way by or on behalf of the city, or for any consequential losses
resulting directly or indirectly therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 111.71) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.097 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Within ten business days of a written request from the city, each grantee
shall furnish the city with the following:
   (A)   Information sufficient to demonstrate that the grantee has complied
with all requirements of this chapter; and
   (B)   All books, records, maps and other documents maintained by the grantee
with respect to its facilities within the public rights-of-way shall be made
available for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals.
(Prior Code, § 111.72) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.098 SERVICE TO THE CITY.
   If the city contracts for the use of telecommunication facilities,
telecommunication services, installation or maintenance from the grantee, the
grantee shall charge the city the grantee’s most favorable rate offered at the
time of the request charged to similar users within the state for a similar
volume of service, subject to any of grantee’s tariffs or price lists on file
with the State PUC. With the city’s permission, the grantee may deduct the
applicable charges from fee payments. Other terms and conditions of such
services may be specified in a separate agreement between the city and grantee.
(Prior Code, § 111.73) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.099 COMPENSATION FOR CITY PROPERTY.
   If any right is granted, by lease, franchise or other manner, to use and
occupy city property for the installation of telecommunications facilities, the
compensation to be paid for such right and use shall be fixed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.74) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.100 CABLE FRANCHISE.
   Any telecommunication carrier that wishes to provide cable service must
enter into a separate cable franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 111.75) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.101 OBLIGATION TO MODIFY OR EXTEND SERVICE.
   The city may require any telecommunications franchisee to make such
modifications, additions and extensions to its physical equipment, facilities
or plant or services within the city, as shall be reasonable or necessary in
the interest of the public, and designate the location and nature of all
additions and extensions, the time within which they must be completed and all
conditions under which they must be constructed.
(Prior Code, § 111.76) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.102 GRANTEE INSURANCE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, each
grantee shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following
liability insurance policies insuring both the grantee and the city, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as coinsured:
      (1)   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than
$1,000,000 for bodily injury or death to each person; $1,000,000 for property
damage resulting from any one accident; and $1,000,000 for all other types of
liability;
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
limit of $1,000,000 for each person and $1,000,000 for each accident; and
      (3)   Workers’ compensation within statutory limits and employer’s
liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000.
   (B)   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications license
or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license or is engaged in the removal of its
telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall contain the
following endorsement.
 
   “This policy may not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated
until 90 days after receipt by the city, by registered mail, of a written notice
addressed to the City Administrator of such intent to cancel or not to renew.”
 
   (C)   Within 60 days after receipt by the city of such notice, and in no
event later than 30 days prior to the cancellation, the grantee shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence that the grantee meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   The insurance policy requirements of this section may be met by a
program of self-insurance acceptable to the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.77) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.103 GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   Each franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted by law, the
grantee’s express undertaking to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its
officers, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and against any
and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise
out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions,
failures to act or misconduct of the grantee or its affiliates, officers,
employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction,
operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its telecommunications facilities,
and in providing or offering telecommunications services over the facilities or
network, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited
by this chapter or by a franchise agreement made or entered into pursuant to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.78) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
ADDITIONAL LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.115 GOVERNING LAW.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the provisions of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the state, and the ordinances
and Charter of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.80) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.116 WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
   No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the agreement is in writing.
(Prior Code, § 111.81) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.117 NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT.
   No franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public rights-of-way of
the city for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 111.82) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.118 SEVERABILITY AND PREEMPTION.
   (A)   If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, or superseded by state or
federal legislation, rules, regulations or decision, the remainder of the
chapter shall not be affected thereby but shall be deemed as a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof, and each remaining portion of this
chapter shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
   (B)   In the event that federal or state laws, rules or regulations preempt
a provision or limit the enforceability of a provision of this chapter, then
the provision shall be read to be preempted only to the extent required by law.
   (C)   In the event such federal or state law, rule or regulation is
subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so that the
provision that had been preempted is no longer preempted, such provision shall
return to full force and effect and shall thereafter be binding, without the
requirement of further action on the part of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.83) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.119 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.84) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.120 CAPTIONS.
   The captions to sections throughout this chapter are intended solely to
facilitate reading and reference to the sections and provisions contained
herein. Such captions shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.85) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.121 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   Any grantee under this chapter shall comply with all federal and state laws
and regulations, including regulations of any administrative agency thereof, as
well as all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
heretofore or hereafter adopted or established during the entire term of any
franchise granted under this chapter, which are relevant and relate to the
construction, maintenance and operation of a telecommunications system.
(Prior Code, § 111.86) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.122 CONSENT.
   Wherever the consent of either the city or of the grantees under this
chapter is specifically required by this chapter or in a franchise granted,
such consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
(Prior Code, § 111.87) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.123 APPLICATION TO EXISTING ORDINANCE AND AGREEMENTS.
   To the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with and can be
implemented with existing ordinance and franchise agreements, this chapter
shall apply to all existing ordinance and franchise agreements for use of the
public right-of-way for telecommunications.
(Prior Code, § 111.88) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.124 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The city agrees to use its best efforts to preserve the confidentiality of
information as requested by a grantee, to the extent permitted by the State
Public Records Law, being O.R.S. 192.311 through 192.431.
(Prior Code, § 111.89) (Ord. 380, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 384, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable by a fine in
an amount established by resolution of the City Council. A separate and
distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation
occurs.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
112.01   Applicability
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Exemptions
   
112.05   Business license application requirements
   
112.06   Posting and display of license
   
112.07   Fees imposed
   
112.08   Transfers and relocations; terms of service
   
112.09   Approval, renewal, denial, revocation and suspension
   
112.10   Appeal
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to any person
transacting and carrying on any business within the city which is exempt from a
business license or regulation by the city by virtue of the constitutions of
the United States or the state, or applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person applying for a license to conduct a particular
business within the city.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, trade, profession, occupation or pursuit operated,
engaged, conducted or carried on for profit, gain, livelihood or any other
purpose, regardless of the form under which the activity, trade, profession,
occupation or pursuit is operated, engaged, conducted or carried on within the
city.
   DAY. A calendar day unless otherwise noted.
   LICENSE. The permission granted by the city under this chapter to operate,
engage, conduct or carry on a business within the city.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who has received a business license.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any business or organization which is exempt from
taxation under the United States Internal Revenue Code and produces a
determination letter of proof thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, limited company, joint
venture, cooperative or any other entity in law or in fact.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as exempt under §
112.04, it shall be unlawful for any person to conduct business within the city
without first having obtained a license for the current year as provided under
this chapter.
   (B)   A person engaged in business in more than one location or in more than
one business licensed under this chapter shall make a separate application and
pay a separate license fee for each business or location, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. Only one license under this chapter is required for
mobile businesses such as housekeeping services, food trucks and other related
businesses which travel throughout the city. If more than one business is
conducted on the same premises, each business must obtain a separate license.
   (C)   A person representing himself or herself, or exhibiting any sign or
advertisement that he or she is engaged in a business within the city of which
a license fee is levied by this chapter shall be deemed to be actually engaged
in such business and shall be liable for the payment of such license fee and
subject to the penalties for failure to comply with the requirements of this
chapter. An applicant shall possess any county or state license required or
shall be awaiting final approval by the county or state, if city approval is a
prerequisite, before a city license will be issued.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are exempt from the licensing requirement:
      (1)   A service business operated by a person under the age of 18, such
as a lawn mowing business, a newspaper delivery business, a lemonade stand and
the like;
      (2)   (a)   Individuals who work only on the premises of, and as part of,
a licensed business that includes the activity of the individual.
         (b)   Examples include barbers, beauticians, medical care providers,
attorneys, accountants, relators and others who perform services as part of the
overall licensed business. This exemption does not apply if the overall
business operation has not obtained a business license;
      (3)   Garage sales, yard sales and other similar activity conducted,
carried on or operated by an individual; provided, however, that such exemption
will not apply if either of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The individual conducts, carries on or operates more than three
such sales within any calendar year; or
         (b)   Any one such sale has a duration of more than 96 consecutive
hours (four days).
      (4)   An organizer or participant in a special event, but only with
respect to that particular special event;
      (5)   Activities that qualify as hobbies or passive holding of property
for investment purposes under the United States Internal Revenue Code; and
      (6)   No business license shall be required for the operation of a
“residential home” or a “residential facility,” as those terms are defined in
O.R.S. 197.660.
   (B)   The following must complete the business license application but are
exempt from payment of the license fee:
      (1)   Any business exempt from paying local business license fees or
taxed by federal or state Constitution or law;
      (2)   Any business exempt from paying property tax; and
      (3)   Any entity registered with the Oregon Secretary of State as a not-
for-profit corporation.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.05 BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Each person desiring to engage in doing business must apply for
a license to operate, engage, conduct or carry on the business on such forms
and in such manner as the City Administrator may prescribe.
      (2)   The application must be accompanied by the license fee.
   (B)   The application must be filed with the city and, in addition to any
other information reasonably required by the City Administrator, must contain
the following information:
      (1)   The date of the application;
      (2)   The name and physical address of the business, the address where
the business will be located or have its office within the city and the address
of the principal office of such business;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business, including its
primary or predominant business activity;
      (4)   The date that business operations will commence;
      (5)   The name and address of the applicant and, if the applicant is an
entity, the name and address of the authorized agent submitting an application
on behalf of the applicant;
      (6)   The average number of persons regularly employed;
      (7)   The person who may be contacted in case of an emergency and the
phone number at which that person may be reached;
      (8)   Whether any local, state or federal licenses, certificates,
registrations or permits are required for the business and the identification
of such licenses, certificates, registrations or permits;
      (9)   The license fee tendered with the application;
      (10)   A verification by signature of the applicant or authorized agent
submitting the application on behalf of the applicant of the following:
         (a)   The information stated in the application is true, accurate and
complete;
         (b)   The business is in compliance with all applicable federal, state
and local laws, regulations and ordinances;
         (c)   The applicant or authorized agent has read, understands and
agrees to abide by this chapter; and
         (d)   If the applicant is an entity, the authorized agent has the
requisite power and authority to sign and submit the application on behalf of
the applicant;
      (11)   A notice that the application is public record and that the city
will be exempt from disclosure only of information of a sensitive and
confidential nature to the extent required by the State Public Records Law
(O.R.S. 192.311 through 192.431) and other applicable laws;
      (12)   The name of the business’s insurance company and phone number; and
      (13)   Any other information necessary to enable the City Administrator
or designee to review the application to determine whether the application
should be approved.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.06 POSTING AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The licensee shall post the license in a conspicuous place upon the business
premises, available for inspection by the public and any employees and
prospective employees of the business. When the licensee has no office,
business premises or other established place of business within the city, the
license must be in the possession of the agent or representative of the
business who is present in the city at all times during which business is being
transaction by the agent or representative in the city. If a licensed business
is based in a motor vehicle, a photocopy of the license must be carried in the
motor vehicle.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.07 FEES IMPOSED.
   (A)   An annual license fee, set by City Council, is imposed on the act of
doing business within the city.
   (B)   Fees are due at the time of the initial application. Renewal fees,
which are set by City Council, are due annually by June 1 of the respective
year.
   (C)   A person doing business in the city, for whom payment of a business
license fee is delinquent more than 30 days, shall pay a delinquency fee in the
additional sum of $100 for each calendar month or fraction thereof for which
payment remains delinquent. After three full delinquent months, the business
license will be revoked.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall vest any right in a license as
a contract obligation on the part of the city as the amount of the fee. The
fees provided for in this chapter may be increased or decreased via resolution
by Council, and additional fees may be imposed.
   (E)   A person operating more than one business shall pay the license fee
prescribed for each of the businesses, except as specifically provided by
ordinance.
   (F)   The business license fees imposed by the terms of this chapter are for
revenue purposes only. Neither the acceptance of the prescribed fee nor the
issuance of the applicable license shall be construed to constitute a
regulation of any business activity, or a permit to engage in an activity
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance, or a waiver of any regulatory
licensing requirement imposed by any other ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.08 TRANSFERS AND RELOCATIONS; TERMS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Transfer of license. In the event of the transfer of ownership of a
business, the applicable business license may be transferred by application to
the City Administrator. The City Administrator may approve the transfer upon
finding that the new applicant meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation of an existing business. In the event a business is
relocated, the licensee shall reapply to the City Administrator to transfer the
business license. The City Administrator may issue the license upon finding
that the new location meets the requirements of this chapter and other
applicable federal, state and local regulations.
   (C)   License term. A business license issued under this chapter shall be
valid from the date of issuance until the following June 30.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.09 APPROVAL, RENEWAL, DENIAL, REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Approval of application.
      (1)   The City Administrator or designee shall issue a decision on an
application for a new business license within ten business days of the
submission of a complete application and required fee.
      (2)   The City Administrator or designee shall issue a license renewal
within ten business days of receiving the renewal fee.
      (3)   If an application for a new license is approved, the City
Administrator or designee shall notify the applicant by phone or in writing.
The notice shall state any condition or limitation placed on the license as a
condition of maintaining the license which the City Administrator or designee
deems necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare determined by
local requirements.
   (B)   Renewal. Renewal is required with renewal payments due every June 1.
Renewal fees are the same as the annual fees listed in §
112.07.
   (C)   Denial, suspension, revocation of application. The City Council, City
Administrator or designee may deny, suspend or revoke a business license upon
finding that:
      (1)   The licensee is in violation, as determined by the applicable
governing jurisdiction, of applicable local requirements and such violation
reasonably relates or has a nexus to the licensee’s business activities;
      (2)   The applicant has provided false or misleading material information
or has omitted disclosure of a material fact on the applications, related
materials or license;
      (3)   The applicants’ past or present violation of law, through
creditable evidence establishing probable cause, present reasonable doubt about
his or her ability to perform the licensed activity without endangering
property or the public health or safety;
      (4)   The licensed activity would endanger property or the public health
or safety; or
      (5)   The business or their clientele create any of the following
violations:
         (a)   During any continuous 60-day period, any combination of three or
more nuisance activities as defined in §§
71.03,
71.08,
72.04(C) or
93.02, or Chapters
130 or
131, occurs that is related to or arising out of the business; or
         (b)   One or more nuisance activity as defined in §
134.02 or O.R.S. 163.005(2), 163.095 through 163.149, 163.160(1)(b), 163.165(1)
(b), 163.165(1)(c), 163.175(a), 163.175(b), 163.175(c), 163.185(a), 163.185(d),
163.195, 163.375 through 163.427, 166.220, 167.007 or 475.752, occurs that are
related to or arising out of the business.
   (D)   Notice. The City Administrator or designee shall provide written
notice to the applicant or licensee of the denial, suspension or revocation.
The notice shall state the reason for the action taken and shall inform the
application or licensee of the right to appeal under §
112.10. The notice shall be given at least 15 days before the suspension or
revocation becomes effective. If the violation ends within the 15 days, the
City Administrator or designee may discontinue the suspension or revocation
proceedings.
   (E)   Reapplication. A person whose application for a business license that
has been denied, suspended or revoked may, after 60 days from the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, apply for a license or reinstatement upon
payment of the application fee and submission of an application form and
related documents.
   (F)   Disqualification. A person whose application for any business license
that has been denied or whose license has been revoked for a total of two times
within one 12-month period, or who has a total of four denials, suspensions or
revocations, shall be disqualified from applying for a license or reinstatement
for a period of two years from the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation.
   (G)   Summary suspension. Upon determining that a licensed activity presents
an immediate danger to person or property, the City Administrator may summarily
suspend the license for the activity. The suspension takes effect immediately
upon notice of the suspension being received by the licensee or being delivered
to the licensee’s business address as stated on the licensee’s application for
the license being suspended. Such a notice shall state the reason for the
suspension and inform the licensee of the provisions for appeal under §
112.10. Within 30 days of the summary suspension, the City Council shall review
the pertinent facts which resulted in the suspension and shall determine
whether said facts deem it necessary to continue the suspension in order to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, or to
otherwise ensure that the requirements of this chapter are complied with. The
City Council may continue a suspension as long as the reason for the suspension
exists or until a determination on appeal regarding the suspension is made
under §
112.10.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.10 APPEAL.
   In the event an application for a license under this chapter is denied such
license, or in the event a license is suspended or revoked, the applicant or
licensee shall have the right to appeal.
   (A)   The written notice of appeal to the City Council shall be filed with
the City Administrator within 15 days after the license denial, suspension or
revocation.
   (B)   The City Council shall hear and make a determination in regard to the
appeal at its next regular meeting immediately following the filing of the
notice of appeal.
   (C)   The decision of the City Council on the appeal shall be the city’s
final decision.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200 for any one
offense, each day constituting a separate offense.
   (B)   Inspection and right of entry. Whenever they shall have cause to
suspect a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or when necessary to
investigate an application to, or revocation of a license under any of the
procedures prescribed in this chapter, officials for the enforcement or
administration of this chapter, or their duly authorized representatives, may
enter on any site or into any structure for the purpose of investigation
providing they do so in a reasonable manner. If an owner or occupant denies
access for an inspection, the city will seek a warrant. No secured building
shall be entered without the consent of the owner or occupant unless under
authority of a lawful warrant.
   (C)   Abatement. Any business which is established, operated, moved,
altered, enlarged or maintained contrary to the licensing requirements shall
be, and is hereby declared to be, unlawful and a public nuisance, and may be
abated as such.
   (D)   Legal proceedings by city. In addition to the enforcement provisions
of this chapter, the city may institute additional proceedings, including, but
not limited to, seeking injunctive relief to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 438, passed 3-15-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Offenses outside city limits
   
130.03   Parties to offenses
   
130.04   Attempt to commit
   
130.05   Continuing violations
   
130.06   Working out fine and costs
Advertising and Noise Making
   
130.20   Affixing, painting and the like, advertising matter to streets, trees
and the like
   
130.21   Unreasonable or raucous noise prohibited
   
130.22   Specific acts defined
   
130.23   Permits
Alcohol and Drugs
   
130.35   Definitions
   
130.36   Sales to certain persons prohibited
   
130.37   Minors
   
130.38   Permitting intoxicated persons on licensed premises
   
130.39   Consumption in unlicensed public places prohibited
   
130.40   Inhaling toxic vapors prohibited
   
130.41   Inducing persons to inhale toxic vapors
   
130.42   Possession of marijuana
Sex-Related Offenses
   
130.55   Public indecency
   
130.56   Indecent touching
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions contained in the State Criminal Code of 1971, being
O.R.S. 161.005 et seq., as now or hereafter constituted, are adopted by
reference and made a part of this title.
   (B)   Except when the context clearly indicates a different meaning, the
general definitions and the definitions appearing in the definitional and other
sections of particular articles of the code shall be applicable throughout this
title.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 130.02 OFFENSES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Where permitted by state law, an act made unlawful by this title shall
constitute an offense when committed in an area belonging to the city, even
though outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 130.03 PARTIES TO OFFENSES.
   (A)   A person is guilty of an offense if it is committed by his or her own
conduct or by the conduct of another person for which he or she is liable, or
both.
   (B)   A person is liable for the conduct of another person constituting an
offense if:
      (1)   He or she is made liable by the ordinance defining the offense; or
      (2)   With the intent to promote or facilitate the commission of the
offense he or she:
         (a)   Solicits or commends such other person to commit the offense;
         (b)   Aids or abets or agrees or attempts to aid or abet such other
person in planning or committing the offense; or
         (c)   Having a legal duty to prevent the commission of the offense,
fails to make an effort he or she is legally required to make.
   (C)   In any prosecution for an offense in which liability is based upon the
conduct of another person pursuant to division (B) above, it is no defense
that:
      (1)   Such other person has not been prosecuted for or convicted of any
offense based upon the conduct in question or has been convicted of a different
offense; or
      (2)   The offense, as defined, can be committed only by a particular
class or classes of persons to which the defendant does not belong, and he or
she is for that reason legally incapable of committing the offense in an
individual capacity.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by the ordinance defining the offense, a
person is not liable for conduct of another constituting an offense if he or
she is a victim of that offense or the offense is so defined that his or her
conduct is necessarily incidental thereto.
   (E)   In addition to the liability of a corporation, firm, partnership,
association or joint stock company otherwise imposed by the ordinances of this
city, such an organization is guilty of an offense if:
      (1)   The conduct constituting the offense is engaged in by an agent of
the corporation while acting within the scope of his or her employment and on
behalf of the corporation, or the offense is one defined by an ordinance that
clearly indicates a legislative intent to impose liability on a corporation;
      (2)   The conduct constituting the offense consists of an omission to
discharge a specific duty of affirmative performance imposed on corporations by
law; or
      (3)   The conduct constituting the offense is engaged in, authorized,
solicited, requested, commanded or knowingly tolerated by the board of
directors or by a high managerial agent acting within the scope of his or her
employment and in behalf of the corporation.
   (F)   A person is liable for conduct constituting an offense which he or she
performs or causes to be performed in the name of or in behalf of a
corporation, firm, partnership, association or joint stock company to the same
extent as if such conduct were performed in his or her own name or behalf.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGENT. Any director, officer or employee of a corporation, or any other
person who is authorized to act in behalf of the corporation.
      HIGH MANAGERIAL AGENT. An officer of a corporation who exercises
authority with respect to the formulation of corporate policy or the
supervision in a managerial capacity of subordinate employees, or any other
agent in a position of comparable authority.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT.
   A person who shall attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in this
title or any ordinance of the city, but who for any reason is prevented from
consummating such act, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this title an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense, or the doing of an act is required or the failure to do
an act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 130.06 WORKING OUT FINE AND COSTS.
   (A)   When a person shall be convicted of an offense under the laws of the
city and shall be adjudged to pay a fine and costs and shall fail to pay the
fine and costs, the Municipal Judge may collect labor on the streets or on
other public works, one day for each $8 of such fine unpaid.
   (B)   Persons fined and sentenced to labor as set out in this section shall
be under the charge and supervision of the Chief of Police and the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
ADVERTISING AND NOISE MAKING
§ 130.20 AFFIXING, PAINTING AND THE LIKE, ADVERTISING MATTER TO STREETS, TREES
AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall affix a notice, placard, bill, card, poster, banner,
advertisement or other paper on a sidewalk, crosswalk, curb or curbstone, or a
portion or part of a public way or public place, or a lamp post, electric
light, telegraph, telephone pole or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or
tree-box or on the piers, columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other
parts of a public bridge or viaduct, or other public structure or building, or
on a pole, box or fixture of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except
as may be authorized or required by the laws of the United States, the state,
this title or other ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 UNREASONABLE OR RAUCOUS NOISE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make any unreasonably loud or raucous noise which disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others
within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 SPECIFIC ACTS DEFINED.
   (A)   The following acts are declared to be unreasonably loud or raucous
noises in violation of this title; however, this enumeration shall not be
deemed exclusive.
      (1)   Horns, signaling devises and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle except as
a reasonable signal required by the exigencies of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any sound which
disturbs the sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other persons; the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary or unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   Radios, phonographs and the like.
         (a)   The playing, using or operating of, any radio, musical
instrument, phonograph, television set, tape recorder or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb
the sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other persons, or at any time
with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing by the person or
persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which the machine or device
is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto.
         (b)   The operation of any such machine or device in such a manner so
as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, room,
structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
      (3)   Loud speakers, amplifiers and the like. Using, operating or
permitting to be used or operated any mechanical loud speaker or sound
amplifier, either stationary or mobile, for producing or reproducing sound
which is cast upon the public streets or other public property. This section
does not prohibit the reasonable use of mechanical loud speakers or sound
amplifiers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in
character.
      (4)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to disturb the sleep,
peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other persons.
      (5)   Animals. The keeping of any animal which by frequent or long
continued noise disturbs the sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other
persons.
      (6)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, as
a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper city authorities.
      (7)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom, except where such discharge is from
vehicles used for participation in vehicle spectator sports activities between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., and the activities are properly licensed
by the city and consistent with its zoning ordinance.
      (8)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to disturb the
sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other persons.
      (9)   Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The loading or unloading or any
vehicle or the opening, closing or destruction of bales, boxes, crates and
containers, so as to disturb the sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of
other persons.
      (10)   Construction or repair of buildings, streets and the like. The
construction (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any
building, street, sidewalk, driveway, sewer or utility line between the hours
of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except as provided in §
130.23.
      (11)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any sound on
any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court,
while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, nursing home or other
institution for the care of the sick or infirm, which would tend to
unreasonably interfere with the operation of the same or disturb the sleep,
peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other persons.
      (12)   Pile drivers, hammers, machinery and the like. The operation
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel,
pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance or
machinery, the use of which creates a sound which disturbs the sleep, peace,
quiet, comfort or repose of other persons.
      (13)   Blowers and compressors. The operation of any blower, power fan,
internal combustion engine, electric motor or compressor, the operation of
which causes sound due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, or the
compression of air, unless the sound from such machine is sufficiently muffled
so as to be minimal.
   (B)   Permit fees, if any required under division (A) above, shall be set by
resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 PERMITS.
   (A)   In cases of emergency or other urgent public necessity, the City
Administrator may issue a permit allowing activities described in §
130.22(A)(10) to take place at any hour. Emergency permits may not be issued
for periods exceeding three days but may be renewed for successive periods not
exceeding three days each for so long as the emergency continues.
   (B)   If, due to the location of the building or other site, the potential
nature of the sound from the activity, the potential nature of the sound from
vehicular traffic to and from the site and the loss or inconvenience that would
result to any party in interest, the building official determines that the
sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of other persons will not be disturbed,
he or she may issue a permit allowing activities described in §
130.22(A)(10) to take place between such hours from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. as
he or she deems proper.
   (C)   (1)   Permits issued by the City Administrator pursuant to divisions
(A) and (B) above may be for such days or times as he or she deems proper
within the limits provided.
      (2)   The City Administrator may also include such restrictions or
conditions in permits as he or she feels necessary to ensure the sleep, peace,
quiet, comfort or repose of other persons.
      (3)   The City Administrator may also suspend or revoke a permit if he or
she finds that the sleep, peace, quiet, comfort or repose of any person is
impaired by the activities carried on, or the restrictions or conditions
contained in the permit have been violated.
      (4)   The decisions of the City Administrator to grant, suspend or revoke
any permit may be appealed to the City Council, whose decision thereon shall be
final.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to the activities allowed by §
130.22(A)(10), additions to, alteration or repair of any single or two-family
dwelling structure may be performed without permit between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   If, however, the City Administrator determines that the sleep,
peace, quiet, comfort or repose of any person will be impaired by sound from
the activity, he or she may require that the activity cease at 7:00 p.m.
      (3)   The decision of the City Administrator may be appealed to the City
Council, and its decision thereon shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 130.18) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
§ 130.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. An alcoholic beverage containing more than 0.5% of alcohol
by volume.
   COMMISSION. The State Liquor Control Commission as provided for the State
Liquor Control Act, being O.R.S. 471.027 et seq.
   DESIGNATED PICNIC AREA. The portion of a city park including and immediately
surrounding picnic tables, outdoor fireplaces, outdoor grills, open-wall picnic
shelters or stove facilities.
   HARD LIQUOR. An alcoholic beverage, including sweet wines and all spirituous
liquors, containing 14% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The room or enclosure for which a license has been issued
by the commission for the serving, mixing, handling or selling of alcoholic
liquor.
   LICENSEE. A person who has an alcoholic liquor license from the Commission
authorizing such person to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor.
   MALT BEVERAGE. A beverage as defined in the State Liquor Control Act.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 21 years unless otherwise stated.
   OTHER RESPONSIBLE RELATIVE.
      (1)   An adult who is the spouse of a minor;
      (2)   An adult related to the minor, who has taken over the parental
duties of governing the minor’s actions; or
      (3)   A duly appointed, qualified and acting guardian who has taken over
the parental duties of governing the minor’s actions.
   SELL. Soliciting or receiving an order for or keeping, offering or exposing
for sale, delivering for value or in any way other than gratuitous, peddling,
keeping with intent to sell, to traffic in, for any consideration, promised or
obtained, direct or indirect or under any pretext or by any means whatsoever,
procuring or allowing to be procured alcoholic liquor for any other person.
   STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The state law so designated by O.R.S. 471.027 as
now or hereafter amended and supplemented, and includes the State Distilled
Liquor Control Act, as defined by O.R.S. 471.230, as now or hereafter amended
and supplemented.
   TOXIC VAPORS. Vapors released from drugs, from substances containing
ketones, aldehydes, organic acetates, ether, toluene, chlorinated hydrocarbons,
solvents or from other matter having a propensity to release vapors which cause
intoxication, inebriation, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or
dulling of the senses or nervous system.
(Prior Code, § 130.30) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979)
§ 130.36 SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give, furnish or serve alcoholic liquor to:
   (A)   A minor, except as provided in §
130.37;
   (B)   A person visibly intoxicated; or
   (C)   A person under an order of interdiction by a court.
(Prior Code, § 130.31) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 MINORS.
   (A)   Purchase and the like, prohibited; exception. Except as provided in
this section, no minor shall purchase, acquire or have in his or her possession
alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Lawful consumption. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be
construed as prohibiting a parent or other responsible relative of a minor from
giving a minor alcoholic liquor and permitting him or her to consume it within
the home of the parent or other responsible relative of the minor, or at other
private places not in view of the public where the parent or other responsible
relative is present.
   (C)   Delivering or selling. Except as provided by O.R.S. 471.480, no minor,
either for himself or herself, or as agent or employee of another, shall sell,
offer for sale or deliver an alcoholic liquor. Nor shall a person employ, hire
or engage a minor to sell, offer for sale or deliver alcoholic liquor.
   (D)   Falsely representing age. No minor shall falsely represent his or her
age, or produce evidence that would falsely indicate his or her age, for the
purpose of securing a right, benefit or privilege denied minors by this
subchapter. Nor shall a person falsely represent a minor to be 21 years of age
or older for the purpose of securing or assisting the minor in securing any
right, benefit or privilege denied to minors by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.32) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 PERMITTING INTOXICATED PERSONS ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee, his or her employee or agent shall permit a visibly intoxicated
person to enter on licensed premises which the licensee controls.
(Prior Code, § 130.33) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.39 CONSUMPTION IN UNLICENSED PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no person shall drink or
consume alcoholic liquor in a public place or upon private property extended to
the public for use unless licensed, in advance, for that purpose by the Liquor
Commission.
   (B)   No person shall drink or consume alcohol in city parks unless in
compliance with the following.
      (1)   Upon finding it to be in the public interest and consistent with
city goals and policies, the City Council may, by motion, exempt a special
event from the prohibitions of this section and allow malt beverages and
alcoholic liquor to be consumed in the City Civic Center Park.
      (2)   The motion shall specify the period of time, the location covered
by the exemption and must be licensed, in advance, for that purpose by the
Liquor Commission.
(Prior Code, § 130.34) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 416, passed 3-8-2010)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.40 INHALING TOXIC VAPORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall smell or inhale toxic vapors for the purpose of causing a
condition of intoxication, inebriation, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration,
stupefaction or dulling of the senses or nervous system.
(Prior Code, § 130.35) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 INDUCING PERSONS TO INHALE TOXIC VAPORS.
   No person shall cause, invite or induce another to smell or inhale toxic
vapors.
(Prior Code, § 130.36) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   No person shall knowingly and unlawfully cultivate, transport, possess or
furnish marijuana.
(Prior Code, § 130.37) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
SEX-RELATED OFFENSES
§ 130.55 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully perform in, or in view of, a public place or
private premises extended to the public for use:
      (1)   An act of masturbation;
      (2)   An act of sexual intercourse;
      (3)   An act of deviate sexual intercourse;
      (4)   An act simulating sexual intercourse of deviate sexual intercourse;
or
      (5)   An act exposing his or her or another’s genital organs, knowing
that such act is likely to be observed by another person.
   (B)   As used in this section, the terms SEXUAL INTERCOURSE and DEVIATE
SEXUAL INTERCOURSE have the meaning found in O.R.S. 163.305.
(Prior Code, § 130.50) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.56 INDECENT TOUCHING.
   No person in or in view of a public place shall willfully participate in
repetitive or continuous touching, fondling, manipulating or rubbing of the
genitals, breasts or buttocks, whether exposed or unexposed, of a human body,
for the purpose of arousing or gratifying any person’s sexual desires, and
knowing that such act is likely to be observed by another person.
(Prior Code, § 130.51) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this title for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
131.01 and
131.02 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $25.
   (C)   Violation of §§
130.37 and
130.38 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $50.
   (D)   Violation of §
134.03 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
   (E)   Violation of §
130.42 in which conviction is for possession, cultivation or transportation of
less than one avoirdupois ounce of marijuana is a violation punishable by a
fine not to exceed $100.
   (F)   Violation of §§
131.05 and
131.06 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $150.
   (G)   Violation of §§
131.03 and
131.07 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $250.
   (H)   Violation of §§
130.20,
130.23,
130.39,
131.01,
131.02,
133.01,
133.03 and
133.05 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 415, passed 1-11-2010;
Ord. 416, passed 3-8-2010)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Acts prohibited at night
   
131.02   Juvenile curfew; exceptions
   
131.03   Loitering
   
131.04   Soliciting and the like, delinquent acts by minor
   
131.05   Impeding passage
   
131.06   Standing on public way after notice to move on
   
131.07   Disruption of Council meetings
   
131.08   Assault and battery
   
131.09   Disorderly conduct
   
131.10   Menacing
   
131.11   Recklessly endangering another person
   
131.12   Disorderly conduct at fires
   
131.13   Harassment
§ 131.01 ACTS PROHIBITED AT NIGHT.
   (A)   Rules and regulations of cemeteries are adopted by resolution for use,
care, control, management, restriction and protection of both the North and
East Municipal Cemeteries.
   (B)   Between the hours of 30 minutes after sunset and 6:00 a.m. of the
succeeding day, no person shall be in a city park unless driving, bicycling,
walking or otherwise moving through the park on lawful business within a public
street right-of-way or officially designated bicycle path or sidewalk, or
authorized to be in the park by the City Administrator or the City
Administrator’s designee.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, CITY PARK is defined to be Anna Drain
Park and swimming pool area, the City Civic Center area and the Grant Levins
Pavilion and Covered Bridge areas.
   (D)   Upon finding it to be in the public interest and consistent with city
goals and policies, the City Council may, by motion, exempt a special event
from the prohibitions of division (B) above. The motion shall specify the
period of time and the location covered by the exemption.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 415, passed 1-11-2010)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 JUVENILE CURFEW; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No minor shall be in or upon any street, highway, park, alley or
other public place between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. of the
following morning.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On die sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
   (B)   No parent, guardian or person having the care and custody of a minor
under the age of 18 years, shall allow such minor to be in or upon any street,
highway, park, alley or other public place between the hours specified in
division (A) above, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Any minor who violates division (A) above may be taken into custody,
as provided in O.R.S. 419C.080, 419C.085 and 419C.088, and may be subject to
further proceedings, as provided in O.R.S. Chapter 419C.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 415, passed 1-11-2010)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No person shall loiter or prowl in a place, at a time or in a
manner not usual for law abiding persons under circumstances that warrant alarm
for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
      (2)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether such alarm is warranted is that the person takes flight upon seeing a
police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or manifestly endeavors
to conceal himself or herself, or any object.
      (3)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it
impracticable, a police officer shall, prior to an arrest for violation of this
division (A), afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him or her to identify himself or herself
and explain his or her presence and conduct.
      (4)   Failure of a police officer to do so shall be a defense in
prosecution under the provisions of this division (A). It shall also be a
defense if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was
true and, if believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm.
   (B)   Near schools and places frequented by children.
      (1)   No person not having any reason or relationship involving custody
of or responsibility for a student, or not having written permission from
anyone authorized to grant the same shall loiter in or near a school building
or grounds.
      (2)   No person shall loiter about a public place frequented by children,
including swimming pools, school bus stops, playgrounds and parks and public
premises adjacent thereto, for the purpose of annoying, bothering or molesting
children.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 SOLICITING AND THE LIKE, DELINQUENT ACTS BY MINOR.
   No person shall solicit, aid, abet or cause a minor under the age of 18
years to:
   (A)   Violate a law of the United States, or of a state, or to violate a
city or county ordinance;
   (B)   Do an act which endangers the health, safety or welfare of the minor
or of another person; or
   (C)   Run away or conceal himself or herself from a person or institution
having lawful custody of the minor.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 IMPEDING PASSAGE.
   No person shall purposely impede the passage of another over a street,
sidewalk or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 131.05) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.06 STANDING ON PUBLIC WAY AFTER NOTICE TO MOVE ON.
   No person shall stand in or upon a street, sidewalk or other public way so
as to obstruct or impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic after
being notified to move on by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 131.06) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 DISRUPTION OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   No person shall at a meeting of the Council willfully disrupt or
obstruct the work of or the conducting of the business of the Council.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISRUPT or OBSTRUCT. Any act or action that does or could reasonably be
expected to prevent those present at the meeting from carrying out the purpose
or purposes for which the meeting is held in and at the time and place
provided.
      THE WORK OF OR THE CONDUCTING OF THE BUSINESS OF THE COUNCIL. Refers to
the process of receiving and reviewing testimony and other evidence,
discussing, considering, debating and voting on matters on the agenda of the
Council and other matters properly before it.
      WILLFULLY. Implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or
omission referred to and does not require any intent to violate law or injure
another or acquire any advantage.
(Prior Code, § 131.07) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.08 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   No person shall commit assault, or assault and battery.
(Prior Code, § 131.08) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.09 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in fighting or in violent, tumultuous and
threatening physical behavior which creates an unreasonable risk of harm to
person or property, or serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   No person shall direct to another person in hearing or in view of a
public place, or upon private premises extended to the public for use written
words, spoken words or gestures which, when directed to the ordinary citizen
are, as a matter of common knowledge, inherently likely to provoke violent
reaction.
   (C)   No person shall congregate with other persons in a public place or
upon private premises extended to the public for use:
      (1)   So as to obstruct a public passage;
      (2)   In dangerous proximity to a fire or other hazard; or
      (3)   If the congregation serves no legitimate purpose of the actors and
creates an unreasonable risk of harm to person or property, or serious public
inconvenience or alarm, and the person(s) fail to comply with the lawful order
of police to disperse.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly interfere with or obstruct a police officer
in the officer’s lawful performance of his or her duties. For the purpose of
this section, TO INTERFERE WITH OR OBSTRUCT shall mean any physical act or
action, including a refusal to leave a particular area in response to a lawful
order from a police officer, that does or could reasonably be expected to
prevent a police officer from performing his or her duties in and at the time
and place where the police officer should reasonably perform his or her duties.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly create or maintain a physically offensive or
hazardous condition by any act which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
   (F)   No person shall spit on, in or against any surface, substance or
person in a public place or within private premises extended to the public for
use.
   (G)   No person shall knowingly urinate or defecate, except in a lavatory
provided for persons of his or her sex, in or in view of a public place or upon
private premises extended to the public for use.
(Prior Code, § 131.09) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.10 MENACING.
   No person shall by word or conduct intentionally attempt to place another
person in fear of imminent serious physical injury.
(Prior Code, § 131.10) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.11 RECKLESSLY ENDANGERING ANOTHER PERSON.
   No person shall recklessly engage in conduct which creates a substantial
risk of serious physical injury to another person.
(Prior Code, § 131.11) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.12 DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT FIRES.
   (A)   No person at or near a fire shall obstruct or impede the fighting of
the fire, interfere with Fire Department personnel or Fire Department
apparatus, behave in a disorderly manner or refuse to observe promptly an order
of a member of the Fire or Police Department.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, members of the Fire Department are
endowed with the same powers of arrest as are conferred upon peace officers for
violations of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 131.12) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.13 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall, with intent to harass, annoy or alarm another person:
   (A)   Subject another to offensive physical contact;
   (B)   Publicly insult another by abusive or obscene words or gestures in a
manner likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response;
   (C)   Communicate with a person anonymously or otherwise, by telephone, mail
or other form of written communication, in a manner likely to cause annoyance
or alarm; and
   (D)   Engage in a course of conduct that alarms or seriously annoys another
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 131.13) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Injuring or defacing property
   
132.02   Interfering with or removing property
   
132.03   Interfering with water mains or pipes
   
132.04   Opening stops or faucets
   
132.05   Covering up stopcock, gate or meter
   
132.06   Interfering with purity of water supply system
   
132.07   Interfering with sewage works
   
132.08   Cutting or removing plants on public property
   
132.09   Detention of city books, papers and the like
   
132.10   Trespassing on premises
   
132.11   Petty larceny
   
132.12   Shoplifting
Public Ways
   
132.25   Portion of street reserved for traffic
   
132.26   Depositing materials in streets
   
132.27   Barricades
Camping on Public Property
   
132.40   Definitions
   
132.41   Prohibited campsites
   
132.42   Notices required
   
132.43   Exceptions to notice requirement
   
132.44   Personal property
   
132.45   Camping in railroad right-of-way
   
132.46   Camping by individuals on any public or private entity
   
132.47   Authorized non-motor vehicle camping within city limits; rules
   
132.48   Temporary occupancy of recreation or motor vehicles
   
132.49   Exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 INJURING OR DEFACING PROPERTY.
   No person shall wantonly destroy, injure or deface public property or the
property of another person.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
Cross-reference:
    Damage to public sewer system, see §
52.05
   Damage to public sewer system prohibited, see §
52.06
§ 132.02 INTERFERING WITH OR REMOVING PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall remove, deface or interfere with a traffic
control device, structure devoted to public or semi-public uses or other public
property or structures.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
Cross-reference:
   Liability for damage to streets or other public property, see §
71.35
§ 132.03 INTERFERING WITH WATER MAINS OR PIPES.
   No person shall attach to or detach from any water main or service pipe or
other connection through which water is supplied by the city to water customers
of the city or interfere in any manner with such pipes or connections, without
having first obtained the written consent of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 132.03) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 OPENING STOPS OR FAUCETS.
   No person shall open a stop or faucet or leave a stop or faucet open so as
to permit the water to waste.
(Prior Code, § 132.04) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 COVERING UP STOPCOCK, GATE OR METER.
   No person shall cover up a stopcock, gate or meter attached to the city
water system with lumber, earth, cement, concrete or other substance.
(Prior Code, § 132.05) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH PURITY OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   No person shall interfere with, destroy or endanger the city water supply
source or system or deposit or maintain any unclean or unwholesome substance in
the city water supply source or system.
(Prior Code, § 132.06) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 INTERFERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS.
   No person shall break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, tamper or interfere
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the city sewer
works.
(Prior Code, § 132.07) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 CUTTING OR REMOVING PLANTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall cut or remove trees, shrubbery, flowers or grass from a
public park, public ways or other city property, and no tree shall be removed
from streets, or other city property except upon permission from the City
Administrator or his or her designate.
(Prior Code, § 132.08) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09 DETENTION OF CITY BOOKS, PAPERS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall retain any books, papers or property belonging to the city
or the city library after the same or portion thereof, have been demanded by
the City Administrator, librarian or other person duly authorized to make such
demand, or keep possession after such demand, or refuse to allow full
inspection of all books or papers belonging to the city after such demand.
(Prior Code, § 132.09) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.10 TRESPASSING ON PREMISES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING. Includes any vehicle, boat, aircraft or other structure adapted
for overnight accommodation of persons or for carrying on business therein.
      (1)   Where a BUILDING consists of separate units, including, but not
limited to, apartments, offices or rented rooms, each unit is, in addition to
being a part of such building, a separate building.
      (2)   BUILDING also means any structure which is usually occupied by a
person lodging therein at night, whether or not such person is actually
present.
      ENTER OR REMAIN UNLAWFULLY.
         (a)   To enter or remain in or upon premises when the premises, at the
time of such entry or remaining, are not open to the public and the entrant is
not otherwise licensed or privileged to do so; or
         (b)   To fail to leave premises that are open to the public after
having been notified to do so by the person in lawful charge if such direction
is lawful and based upon the entrant’s engaging in conduct not consistent with
any purpose for which the premises are open.
      OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. Premises which, by function, custom, usage, notice or
lack thereof, their physical nature or other circumstances at the time, would
cause a reasonable person to believe that permission to enter or remain is not
required.
      PERSON IN LAWFUL CHARGE. The lawful occupant or other person, or their
representative who has lawful control of the premises. Such person may have
lawful control by ownership, tenancy or other such legal relationship; or by
express, implied or apparent authority.
      PREMISES. Any building and any real property or portion thereof, whether
privately or publicly owned.
   (B)   A person commits trespass if he or she enters or remains unlawfully in
or upon premises.
   (C)   No person shall engage in trespassing.
(Prior Code, § 132.10) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.11 PETTY LARCENY.
   No person shall willfully take or carry away the property of another with
the intent to deprive the owner of his or her property therein, in any value up
to but not exceeding the sum of $75. For the purpose of this section, PROPERTY
means any real or personal property.
(Prior Code, § 132.11) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.12 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully conceal or take possession of goods offered
for sale by a retail or wholesale store or other mercantile establishment with
the intent to convert the goods to his or her own use without paying the
purchase price thereof. It shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
convert the goods to his or her own use if such goods are taken from the
premises of such retail or wholesale store or other mercantile establishment
without having paid for the same or without having made arrangements with the
owner, manager or one of his or her agents.
   (B)   Notwithstanding O.R.S. 133.220 through 133.225, a peace officer,
merchant or merchant’s employee who has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has committed the crime of shoplifting may detain and interrogate the
person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable time.
   (C)   Where a peace officer, merchant or merchant’s employee, with
reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed the crime of
shoplifting detains and interrogates him or her, and the person thereafter
brings a civil or criminal action for slander, false arrest, false
imprisonment, assault, battery or wrongful detention based upon the detention
and interrogation against the peace officer, merchant or merchant’s employee,
such reasonable cause shall be a defense to the action if the detention and
interrogation were done in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 132.12) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
PUBLIC WAYS
§ 132.25 PORTION OF STREET RESERVED FOR TRAFFIC.
   No unauthorized person shall make use of the portion of the street between
the curbs reserved for vehicular traffic for any other purpose than vehicular
traffic, except that pedestrians may cross the streets at crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 132.25) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.26 DEPOSITING MATERIALS IN STREETS.
   No person shall throw, place, deposit, scatter or drop gravel, rubbish,
earth, asphalt or lumber on a paved street or alley unless deposited in one
pile for immediate use; provided, that no such materials shall obstruct the
flow of water through a ditch, drain or gutter. A person violating this section
shall remove all such materials from the pavement, and, in case of failure to
do so on demand from the City Administrator or his or her designate, the city
may clean the paved street of such materials and charge expense to said person.
(Prior Code, § 132.26) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.27 BARRICADES.
   (A)   A person who has made a portion of a public street or highway
dangerous shall erect and maintain around the dangerous portion of the street
or highway a good and sufficient barrier, warning signs and lights as long as
the danger continues.
   (B)   All barricades, warning signs, lights and other devices shall comply
with the manual of the Traffic Engineering Division.
(Prior Code, § 132.27) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
132.99
CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 132.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP or CAMPING. To pitch, erect, create, use or occupy camp facilities for
the purpose of habitation, as evidenced by the use of camp materials.
   CAMP FACILITIES. A location upon city property where camping materials are
placed.
   CAMP MATERIALS. Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, blankets, mattresses, hammocks or outdoor cooking devices or
utensils and similar equipment.
   CAMPSITE. Any place where one or more persons have established temporary
sleeping accommodations by use of camp facilities and/or camp paraphernalia.
   CIVIC CENTER. Any property or land located at 205 West A Avenue, Drain,
Oregon 97435.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in O.R.S. 801.360.
   PARK AREAS. The parks and recreation facilities identified in the city’s
Parks and Recreations Master Plan.
   PARKING LOT. A developed location that is designated for parking motor
vehicles, whether developed with asphalt, concrete, gravel or other material.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item that is reasonably recognizable as belonging to
a person and that has apparent value or utility.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Public lands, premises and buildings, including, but not
limited to, any building used in connection with the transaction of public
business or any lands, premises or buildings owned or leased by the state or
any political subdivision therein and includes public rights-of-way. PUBLIC
PROPERTY may not be open to the public.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area between boundary lines of a public street or
other public easement that is reserved, used or to be used for public streets,
alley, pathway or other public purpose.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. As defined in O.R.S. 174.101.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, trash, debris, yard waste, food waste or other
discarded materials.
   STORE or STORAGE. To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, to place or leave in a location.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.41 PROHIBITED CAMPSITES.
   No person shall camp in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley, lane, public
right-of-way, park areas, Civic Center, railroad tracks, city owned cemeteries,
any other publicly owned property or under any bridge or viaduct, except where
specifically authorized by this subchapter, or by declaration of the Mayor in
emergency circumstances.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.42 NOTICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to removing homeless individuals from an established campsite,
law enforcement officials shall post a notice of the intended removal, written
in English and Spanish, at least 72 hours in advance, except as otherwise
provided in §
132.43.
   (B)   (1)   At the time the notice is posted, law enforcement officials
shall inform the local agency that delivers social services to homeless
individuals that the notice has been posted.
      (2)   In the event that law enforcement officials cannot identify such a
local agency, they shall provide the notice to a regional agency that delivers
social services to homeless individuals.
      (3)   The agency may arrange for outreach workers to visit the campsite
where a notice has been posted to assess the need for social service assistance
in arranging shelter and other assistance.
   (C)   A person authorized to issue a citation for unlawful camping under
state law, administrative rule or city or county ordinance may not issue that
citation if the citation would be issued within 200 feet of a notice required
under this section and within two hours before or after the notice was posted.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.43 EXCEPTIONS TO NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The 72-hour notice requirement set forth in §
132.42 shall not apply:
   (A)   When there are grounds for law enforcement officials to believe that
illegal activities other than camping is occurring at an established camping
site; or
   (B)   In the event of an exceptional emergency such as possible site
contamination by hazardous materials, a public health emergency or when there
is immediate danger to human life or safety.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.44 PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All personal property at the camping site that remains unclaimed after
removal shall be given to a law enforcement official, a local agency that
delivers social services to homeless individuals, an outreach worker, a local
agency official or a person authorized to issue a citation, whether notice is
required under §
132.42 or not.
   (B)   All unclaimed personal property shall be stored in an orderly fashion,
keeping items that belong to an individual together to the extent that
ownership can reasonably be determined.
   (C)   Items that have no apparent value or utility or are in an insanitary
condition may be immediately discarded upon removal of the homeless individuals
from the campsite.
   (D)   (1)   The property shall be stored for a minimum of 30 days during
which it shall be reasonably available to any individual claiming ownership.
      (2)   Any personal property that remains unclaimed after 30 days may be
disposed of or donated.
   (E)   Weapons, drug paraphernalia, controlled substances other than
prescription medication and items that appear to be either stolen or evidence
of a crime shall be given to or retained by law enforcement officials.
   (F)   Written notice required under §
132.42 must state, at a minimum:
      (1)   Where unclaimed personal property will be stored;
      (2)   Phone number that individuals may call to find out where the
property will be stored; and
      (3)   If a permanent storage location has not yet been determined, the
address and phone number of an agency that will have the information when
available.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.45 CAMPING IN RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The city may abate illegal camping located in a railroad right-of-way on the
same terms set forth in this subchapter provided that the city has been given
such authority by the owner of the railroad.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.46 CAMPING BY INDIVIDUALS ON ANY PUBLIC OR PRIVATE ENTITY.
   (A)   Any public or private entity located in the city may offer overnight
camping on institution property to homeless persons living in vehicles.
   (B)   The following conditions apply:
      (1)   Camping at each institution is limited to three or fewer vehicles
at any one time; and
      (2)   Campers must be provided access to sanitary facilities, including
but not limited to toilet, hand washing and trash disposal facilities.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.47 AUTHORIZED NON-MOTOR VEHICLE CAMPING WITHIN CITY LIMITS; RULES.
   (A)   Time.
      (1)   Camping in the area listed in division (B) below may only occur for
up to 12 of any 24-hour period.
      (2)   The City Administrator has the authority to extend these hours for
up to ten days in case of inclement weather.
      (3)   Council approval is necessary to extend these hours past ten days.
   (B)   Place. Camping on public property within the city limits is only
allowed in the designated area located on the north side of 708 South Cedar
Street behind the fenced area.
   (C)   Manner.
      (1)   No motor vehicle camping is allowed in these areas.
      (2)   Trash and personal items brought into these areas must be taken out
each time someone leaves; no unattended personal items.
      (3)   No building structures or other similar things.
      (4)   No drugs, alcohol or smoking.
      (5)   No open flame, use of gas or propane heaters.
      (6)   No blocking entrances or driveways.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.48 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF RECREATION OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
   This subchapter is not intended to prohibit the temporary occupancy of
recreational vehicles for construction projects, emergencies or special
community events that are authorized by permit, nor is it intended to prohibit
the temporary occupancy of recreational vehicles on private property that is
authorized in accord with the city’s Development Ordinance.
   (A)   Time. Vehicle camping in the areas provided in this section may only
occur for 24 hours.
   (B)   Place. Vehicle camping is only allowed on the east side of Fir Street
between Applegate Avenue and Drain Section Road and the east side of the 600
block of Elder Street which is South of Applegate Avenue.
   (C)   Manner.
      (1)   Must move a minimum of 800 feet after 24 hours.
      (2)   No trash or personal items may be left behind.
      (3)   No dumping of any liquids or human waste.
      (4)   No blocking entrances or driveways.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.49 EXCEPTIONS.
   Camping is allowed in prohibited campsites for special community events if
the following conditions are met:
   (A)   A camping in prohibited campsites permit application is completed at
least two weeks prior to the event;
   (B)   The permit application is approved by the City Administrator (or
designee) or Council;
   (C)   All rules and regulations listed on the permit application are
followed; and
   (D)   No rules or regulations listed on the permit application were
violated, during past events, by the person, group or entity applying for the
permit.
(Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
132.25,
132.26 and
132.27 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $25.
   (C)   Violation of §§
132.02 and
132.08 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
132.40 through
132.49 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Municipal Judge, any individual cited
under §§
132.40 through
132.49 that can show meaningful engagement with social services may have the
fine reduced or removed.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 415, passed 1-11-2010;
Ord. 416, passed 3-8-2010; Ord. 443, passed 9-11-2023)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   False reports and statements to police
   
133.02   Resisting arrest
   
133.03   Refusing to assist a peace officer
   
133.04   Hindering prosecution
   
133.05   Aiding escape from custody
   
133.06   Impersonating an officer
§ 133.01 FALSE REPORTS AND STATEMENTS TO POLICE.
   No person shall knowingly make or file with the Police Department or with a
police officer engaged in his or her official duties a false, misleading or
unfounded statement or report concerning the violation or alleged violation of
this title, or the commission or alleged commission of a crime.
(Prior Code, § 133.01) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of resisting arrest if he or she
intentionally resists a person known by him or her to be a peace officer in
making an arrest.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, RESISTS means the use or threatened
use of violence, physical force or any other means that creates a substantial
risk of physical injury to any person.
   (C)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace
officer lacked legal authority to make the arrest, provided he or she was
acting under color of his or her official authority.
(Prior Code, § 133.02) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 REFUSING TO ASSIST A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person commits the offense of refusing to assist a peace officer if, upon
command by a person known by him or her to be a peace officer, he or she
unreasonably refuses or fails to assist in effecting an authorized arrest or
preventing another from committing an offense, except as specified in O.R.S.
480.111 through 480.165.
(Prior Code, § 133.03) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 HINDERING PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of hindering prosecution if, with intent
to hinder the apprehension, prosecution, conviction or punishment of a person
who has committed an offense, or with the intent to assist a person who has
committed an offense in profiting or benefiting from the commission of the
offense, he or she:
      (1)   Harbors or conceals such person;
      (2)   Warns such person of impending discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Provides or aids in providing such person with money,
transportation, weapons, disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Prevents or obstructs, by means of force, intimidation or
deception, anyone from performing an act which might aid in the discovery or
apprehension of such person;
      (5)   Suppresses by any act of concealment, alteration or destruction
physical evidence which might aid in the discovery or apprehension of such
person; or
      (6)   Aids such person in securing or protecting the proceeds of the
offense.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, COMMITTED AN OFFENSE shall apply to a
juvenile being lawfully sought by the police. It is no defense to a prosecution
for hindering prosecution that the principal offender is not apprehended,
prosecuted, convicted or punished.
(Prior Code, § 133.04) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 AIDING ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   (A)   No person shall attempt escape from custody or aid or assist a person
in escaping from the custody of a peace officer.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly aid an escaped prisoner by offering shelter,
clothing, food or any other thing or service which would aid or abet the escape
of the prisoner.
(Prior Code, § 133.05) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall falsely assume to be a peace officer or other officer of the
city, or wear the badge or the adopted uniform, or perform an overt act as such
officer.
(Prior Code, § 133.06) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: WEAPONS
Section
   
134.01   Concealed weapons
   
134.02   Discharge of weapons
   
134.03   Fireworks
§ 134.01 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   Except as provided in O.R.S. 166.260 and 166.291, as now constituted and
hereafter amended, no person shall carry concealed about his or her person or
carry concealed in a vehicle a revolver, pistol or other firearm; or any knife
other than an ordinary pocket knife; any dirk, dagger or stiletto; any metal
knuckles; or any other weapon by the use of which injury could be inflicted
upon the person or property of another. For the purpose of this section, an
ORDINARY POCKET KNIFE is one with a maximum blade length of three and one-half
inches which is not a switchblade or spring-blade knife.
(Prior Code, § 134.01) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   Except on a person’s own property or at firing ranges approved by the
Council, no person other than a peace officer shall fire or discharge a gun,
including spring- or air-actuated pellet guns, air guns or BB guns or other
weapon which propels a projectile by use of gunpowder or other explosive, jet
or rocket propulsion.
(Prior Code, § 134.02) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 FIREWORKS.
   The following sections of the State Fireworks Law, being O.R.S. 480.120,
together with all acts and amendments applicable to cities which are now or
hereafter enacted, are adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter:
O.R.S. 480.120, 480.130, 480.140(1), and 480.150.
(Prior Code, § 134.03) (Ord. 259, passed 5-8-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Violation
   
150.17   Notice; hearing; inspection
   
150.18   Nuisance declared
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   This section is hereby adopted by reference as the new Comprehensive Plan
for the City of Drain and its designated Urban Growth Area. The plan shall be
known as the “Drain Comprehensive Plan,” and it shall consist of the Plan
document attached to Ord. 371 as Exhibit A and one map entitled “City of Drain
Land Use Map.”
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 371, passed 12-8-1997)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or other structure which, for the want of
proper repairs, or by reason of age and dilapidated condition, or by reason of
poorly installed electrical wiring or equipment, defective chimney, defective
gas connection, defective heating apparatus, or for any other cause or reason,
is especially liable to fire, and which building or structure is so situated or
occupied as to endanger any other building or property or human life. Said term
shall also mean and include any building or structure containing any
combustible or explosive material, rubbish, rags, waste, oils, gasoline or
inflammable substance of any kind especially liable to cause fire or danger to
the safety of such building, premises or to human life. Said term shall also
mean and include any building or structure which shall be kept or maintained or
shall be in a filthy or unsanitary condition especially liable to cause the
spread of contagious or infectious disease or diseases. Said term shall also
mean and include any building or structure in such weak or weakened condition,
or dilapidated or deteriorated condition, as to endanger any person or property
by reason of probability of partial or entire collapse thereof.
   PERSON. Any person or persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations,
unincorporated association or associations, including a copartnership or co-
partnerships.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 216, passed 2-9-1960)
§ 150.16 VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall be the owner of, or shall be in possession of, or in
responsible charge of, any dangerous building within the city, and who shall
knowingly suffer or permit any such building to be or remain dangerous for as
long as ten days after receipt of notice as herein provided, shall be guilty of
a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 216, passed 2-9-1960) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 NOTICE; HEARING; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor, any police officer, City Attorney, City Recorder,
Building Inspector, Fire Chief or any Council member shall find or be of the
opinion that there is a dangerous building in the city, it shall be the duty of
such person to report the same to the City Council. Thereupon, the City Council
shall, within a reasonable time, fix a time and place for a public hearing
thereon.
   (B)   Notice shall be mailed to the owner or owners of record of the
premises whereon said building is located, by the City Recorder, notifying said
owner or owners in general terms that a hearing will be held concerning said
property, and the time and place thereof. At said time and place, or at such
other time or times, or place or places, as the Council may adjourn or recess
to, said hearing shall be held, and the Council shall determine by resolution
whether or not said building is dangerous.
   (C)   The Council may, as a part of said hearing, inspect said building, and
the facts observed by said Council at such inspection may be considered by it
in determining whether or not said building is dangerous. At said hearing, the
owner or owners or other persons interested in said property or building shall
have the right to be heard, if such owner or owners or persons requests the
same. Ten days’ notice of any such hearing shall be given by publication in a
newspaper published in the city, or by posting notices thereof in three public
places in said city, and if the last mentioned notice be published or given as
herein required, no irregularity or failure to mail notices shall invalidate
the proceedings.
   (D)   At such hearing, the Council shall have the power to order any
building declared to be dangerous, removed and abated if, in its judgment, such
removal or abatement is necessary in order to remove said dangerous condition.
Or, the Council shall have the power to order said building made safe and to
prescribe what acts or things must be done to render the same safe.
   (E)   (1)   Five days’ notice of said findings and of any orders made by the
Council shall be given to the owner of said building, his or her agent or other
persons controlling the same, and, if said orders be not obeyed, and said
building be not rendered safe within the time in said order specified, being
not less than five days, then the Council shall have the power and duty to
order said building removed or made safe at the expense of the property on
which the same may be situated.
      (2)   In that event, the Council must specify with convenient certainty
the work to be done, and shall file a statement thereof with the Recorder, and
shall advertise for bids for the doing of said work in the manner provided for
advertising for bids for street improvement work, and, thereafter, said bids
shall be received, opened, and contract let, the Council shall ascertain and
determine the probable cost of said work, and assess the same against the
property upon which said building is situated, said assessment shall be
declared by an ordinance, and it shall be entered in the docket of city liens,
and shall thereupon be and become a lien against said property, and the
creation of said lien and the collection and enforcement of said cost shall all
be done and performed in substantially the same manner as in the case of the
cost of street improvements, but irregularities or informalities in the
procedure shall be disregarded.
   (F)    Of the contracts therefor, any right of such owner or owners to
contest said proceedings or to otherwise prevent the city from proceeding with
said work and enforcing said lien, shall be lost and the owner or owners shall
be deemed to have given consent proceedings, work, lien and collection and
enforcement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 150.17) (Ord. 216, passed 2-9-1960)
§ 150.18 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Every building or part thereof which shall be hereafter found by the City
Council to be a dangerous building is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and the same may be abated either summarily or the procedure hereinabove
specified may be followed, or a suit for abatement thereof may be brought by
the city in the county circuit court.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 216, passed 2-9-1960)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any violator of §
150.16 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof in the Recorder’s court, shall
be fined not to exceed $100, or imprisoned not to exceed 20 days, or both fined
and imprisoned in the judgment of the court.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 216, passed 2-9-1960)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Scope and compliance
   
151.004   Consistency with plan and laws
   
151.005   Development permit required
   
151.006   Site plan review
   
151.007   Exclusions from development permit requirement
   
151.008   Temporary permit for emergency and short term housing
   
151.009   Temporary permit for additional dwelling unit for family hardship
   
151.010   Use of a development
   
151.011   Occupancy permits
   
151.012   Nonconforming uses
   
151.013   Temporary use permits
Procedures for Decision Making
   
151.025   Applicable procedures
   
151.026   Type I procedure
   
151.027   Type II procedure
   
151.028   Type III procedure
   
151.029   Type IV procedure
   
151.030   Type V procedure
   
151.031   Application for permit
   
151.032   Completion of application
   
151.033   Contents of notice
   
151.034   Mailing of notice
   
151.035   Posted or published notice
   
151.036   Time of notice
   
151.037   Participation by Planning Commission or City Council Members
   
151.038   Participation by interested officers or employees
   
151.039   Ex parte contacts
   
151.040   Abstention or disqualification
   
151.041   Findings and order
   
151.042   Notice of decision
   
151.043   Record of proceedings
   
151.044   Method of appeal
   
151.045   Attendance at hearings
Criteria for Decision Making
   
151.060   Building permits, sign permits, excavation in the right-of-way and
home occupation
   
151.061   Change in use where rezoning not required
   
151.062   Minor partition
   
151.063   Lot line adjustment
   
151.064   Conditional use
   
151.065   Variance
   
151.066   Revocation of permit
   
151.067   Rezoning
   
151.068   Comprehensive plan change
   
151.069   Subdivision and minor partition
   
151.070   Annexation
   
151.071   Vacation
   
151.072   Conditions imposed when development allowed
Establishment of Zones
   
151.085   Classification of zones
   
151.086   Location of zones
   
151.087   Low Density Residential (R-1)
   
151.088   Multi-Family Residential (R-2)
   
151.089   Commercial-Residential (C-R)
   
151.090   General Commercial (C-1)
   
151.091   General Industrial (M-1)
   
151.092   Accessory and conditional uses in all zones
   
151.093   Woodland-Open Space-Agricultural District (WOA)
   
151.094   Rural Residential (RR-2)
   
151.095   Minimum lot size
   
151.096   Setbacks
   
151.097   Maximum structure height
   
151.098   Maximum lot coverage
   
151.099   Requirements for new construction
Flood Hazards
   
151.110   Authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives
   
151.111   Definitions
   
151.112   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.113   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.114   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.115   Interpretation
   
151.116   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.117   Establishment of development permit; application
   
151.118   Designation of the Local Administrator
   
151.119   Duties and Responsibilities of the Local Administrator
   
151.120   Variance procedure
   
151.121   Provisions for flood hazard reduction; general standards
   
151.122   Provisions for flood hazard reduction; specific standards
   
151.123   Floodways
Planning Commission
   
151.135   Creation of Planning Commission
   
151.136   Quorum
   
151.137   Meetings
   
151.138   Employment of staff
   
151.139   Powers and duties generally
Manufactured Dwelling and Mobile Home Parks
   
151.150   Applications
   
151.151   Final site plan submission requirement
   
151.152   General standards for park development
Mobile Food Cart Standards
   
151.165   Approvals
   
151.166   Location standards
   
151.167   Utility standards
   
151.168   Lighting standards
   
151.169   Other standards
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the city Land Use Code is to coordinate city regulations
governing the development and use of land and to implement the city’s
Comprehensive Plan and to promote the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT. The sharing of a common boundary with another property, the
property line. A common boundary does not refer to a property line abutting a
street.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Douglas County Building Department and its agents
and inspectors.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person employed by the City Council to act as City
Administrator and any person to whom the City Administrator may delegate his or
her duties under this chapter.
   CODE. The City of Drain’s Land Use Code.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The “Comprehensive Plan, Drain, Oregon” adopted by the
City Council on May 20, 1980, and any amendments thereto.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A conditional use is a use which is not permitted outright
in a zone, but which may be permitted through the procedure specified in §
151.027 if the criteria specified in §
151.064 are satisfied.
   FARM USE. The current employment of land for the primary purpose of
obtaining a profit in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops, or by
feeding, breeding, management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock,
poultry, fur-bearing animals or honey bees or for dairying and the sale of
dairy products for any agricultural or horticultural use or animal husbandry or
any combination thereof. FARM USE includes the preparation and storage of the
products raised on such land for man’s use and animal use and disposal by
marketing or otherwise. FARM USE also includes the propagation, cultivation,
maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species.
      (1)   It does not include the use of the land subject to the provisions
of O.R.S. 321 (timber taxation), except land used exclusively for growing
cultured Christmas trees as defined by O.R.S. 215.203(3).
      (2)   Current employment of land for FARM USE includes:
         (a)   Land subject to any farm-related government program;
         (b)   Land lying fallow for one year as a normal and regular
requirement of good agricultural husbandry;
         (c)   Land planted in orchards or other perennial, other than land
specified in division (2)(d) below, prior to maturity;
         (d)   Land not in the agricultural/open space zone which has not been
eligible for assessment at special FARM USE value in the year prior to planting
the current crop and has been planted in orchards, cultured Christmas trees or
vineyards for at least three years;
         (e)   Any land constituting a woodlot of less than 20 acres contiguous
to and owned by the owner of land specially assessed at true cash value for
FARM USE even if the land constituting the woodlot is not utilized in
conjunction with FARM USE;
         (f)   Wasteland in the Agricultural/Open Space zone, dry or covered
with water, lying in or adjacent to and in common ownership with a FARM USE
land and which is not currently being used any economic FARM USE;
         (g)   Land under dwellings customarily provided in conjunction with
the FARM USE in the Agricultural/Open Space Zone;
         (h)   Land under buildings supporting accepted farm practices; and
         (i)   Water impoundments lying in or adjacent to and in common
ownership with FARM USE land; and
      (3)   FARM USE land does not include feedlots.
   FLOWERING. A marijuana plant that had formed a mass of pistils measuring
greater than two centimeters wide at its widest point
   FOREST MANAGEMENT. The current employment of lands, along with accessory
buildings and uses, for the growing, harvesting and management of forest
products, including primary processing facilities.
   HOMEGROWN. Grown by a person 21 years of age or drier for noncommercial
purposes.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any lawful profession, craft or service activity carried on
within a dwelling. However, the following are not considered HOME OCCUPATIONS
requiring a home occupation permit:
      (1)   Newspaper delivery by individuals younger than 18 years of age;
      (2)   Babysitting, not exceeding five children on a regular basis;
      (3)   Door-to-door salespersons taking orders for later delivery (for
example, representatives of Avon, Fuller Brush, Amway and the like);
      (4)   Wood cutters;
      (5)   Invitational house parties (for example, Tupperware and Stanley);
      (6)   Part-time or minor service work not exceeding 40 hours per month
(for example, sewing alterations, music lessons and home tutoring);
      (7)   Yard sales; and
      (8)   Independent truckers with only one truck.
   HOUSEHOLD. A housing unit and any place in or a round a housing unit at
which the occupants of the housing unit are producing, processing, possessing
or soring homegrown marijuana, cannabinoid products, cannabinoid concentrates
or cannabinoid extracts. This definition only applies for purposes of
marijuana.
   HOUSING UNIT.
      (1)   A house, an apartment or a mobile home, or a grow of rooms or a
single room that is occurred as separate frying quarters, to which the
occupants live and eat separately from any other persons in the building and
that has direct access from the outside of the building or through a common
hall.
      (2)   This definition only applies for purposes of marijuana.
   IMMATURE MARIJUANA PLANT. A marijuana plant that is not flowering.
   LAND DIVISION. A lot or parcel of land created through the process of
dividing land.
   LCDC GOALS AND GUIDELINES. The goals and guidelines adopted by the Land
Conservation and Development Commission pursuant to O.R.S. 197.005 et seq.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The relocation of a common boundary between lots or
parcels or the elimination of a common boundary between lots or parcels.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was constructed
in accordance with federal manufactured housing construction and safety
standards and regulation in effect at the time of construction.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
      (1)   A structure constructed for movement on the public highways that
has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that:
         (a)   A residential trailer that was constructed before January 1,
1962;
         (b)   A mobile home that was constructed between January 1, 1962, and
June 15, 1976 and met the construction requirements of Oregon mobile home law
in effect at the time of construction; or
         (c)   A manufactured home that was constructed in accordance with
federal manufactured housing construction and safety standards and regulations
in effect at the time of construction.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not mean building or structure
constructed to conform to the State of Oregon Structural Specialty Code or the
One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code adopted pursuant to O.R.S. 455.100 to 455.450
and O.R.S. 455.610 to 455.630 or any unit identified as a recreational vehicle
by the manufacturer.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK. Any place where four or more manufacture
dwellings are located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract or parcel
of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent or
lease space or keep space for rent or lease to any person for a charge or fee
paid or to be paid for the rental or lease or use of facilities or to offer
space free in connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK does not include a lot or lots located within a
subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by no more than one
manufactured dwelling per lot in an approved subdivision.
   MANUFACTURED STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles; and
         (b)   Manufactured dwellings.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED STRUCTURE. Does not apply to any building or structure
regulated under the Oregon Structural Specialty Code or the One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code.
   MARIJUANA. Means the Plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae, any part of the
Plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family
Cannabaceae.
   MARIJUANA GROW SITE. Means a location registered under O.R.S. 475B.810
(Marijuana grow site registration system) where marijuana is produced for use
by a registry identification cardholder.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCER. Means an entity teemed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to manufacture, plant, cultivate, grow or harvest marijuana.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to sell marijuana items to a consumer in the state.
   MATURE MARIJUANA PLANT. A marijuana plant that is not an immature marijuana
plant.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to transfer marijuana.
   MOBILE FOOD CART. A vehicle that is self-propelled or that can be pulled or
pushed down a sidewalk street highway, on which food is prepared or processed,
or converted, or which is used in selling and dispensing food to the ultimate
customer. A mobile food cart does not include a cart or stand for the purpose
of selling lemonade or other non-alcoholic beverages, operated bv minors under
the age of 18. No permit or license is required for those uses.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any place where four or more manufactured structures are
located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract or parcel of land under
the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space
for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or
use of the facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the
trade or patronage of such person. MOBILE HOME PARK does not include a lot or
lots located within a subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by no
more than one manufactured dwelling per lot in an approved subdivision.
   NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT OR USE. A development or use lawfully existing at
the time this chapter became applicable to the development by being in
compliance with the standards applicable to it at the time it came into
existence, but that would not be lawful except for its preexistence.
   OWNER. Where used in relationship to real property, OWNER is the legal owner
of record or, where there is a recorded land sales contract in force, the
purchaser thereunder.
   STANDARDS DOCUMENT. The document providing construction and design standards
for development adopted by reference in §
151.003.
   PARTITION TYPE.
      (1)   MAJOR PARTITION. The partition of land as defined in O.R.S. 92.010
that includes the creation of a road or street.
      (2)   MINOR PARTITION. The partition of land as defined in O.R.S. 92.010
that does not include the creation of a road or street.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motive power, which is
designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for recreational,
seasonal or emergency purposes, and which has a gross floor area not exceeding
400 square feet in the set-up mode.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 385, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 433, passed 12-
10-2018; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 151.003 SCOPE AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Land may be used or developed by land division or otherwise, and
a structure may be used or developed by construction, reconstruction,
alteration, occupancy or otherwise only as this chapter permits.
      (2)   In addition to complying with the criteria and other provisions
within this chapter, each development and use shall comply with the applicable
standards set forth in the “Standards Document for the City of Drain”, which is
hereby adopted by reference. A copy of the Standards Document shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Administrator.
   (B)   The requirements of this chapter apply to the person undertaking a
development or the user of a development and to the person’s successors in
interest.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.004 CONSISTENCY WITH PLAN AND LAWS.
   Actions initiated under this chapter shall be consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan and applicable state and federal laws and regulations as
these plans, laws and regulations may now or hereafter provide
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.005 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as excluded by §
151.007, no person shall engage in or cause to occur a development or change in
the use of land for which a development permit has not been issued.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.006 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to ensure that the development of
property in the city urban area is commensurate with the character and physical
limitations of the land; to promote and protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the community; to enhance aesthetic values; to assure development
which is suitably related to its environment; to prevent both extremes of
monotonous uniformity and substantial dissimilarity; and, to conform with the
adopted goals, objectives and policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (1)   When a site plan review required.
         (a)   No lot or parcel in any Zoning District established under the
provisions of this chapter shall hereafter be developed or physically altered,
and no building or structure hereafter shall be erected, enlarged or
structurally altered until site development plans have been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Without limiting the
foregoing or any other provision of this chapter, no installation of 3,000
square feet or more of asphalt or other impervious surfaces shall be made until
site development plans have been approved in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. Those activities described in §
151.007 do not require site review.
         (b)   To the extent possible, site plan review shall be coordinated
with any other plan review required by this chapter. Where other provisions of
this chapter require plan review, such other review shall serve to meet the
requirements of this section; provided, however, that when the standards of
this section are more restrictive than comparable standards imposed by other
provisions of this chapter, the standards of this section shall govern.
      (2)   Authority. The City Administrator shall review all site development
plans required by this section. The City Administrator’s authority shall be
limited to that necessary to accomplish the provisions of this subchapter and
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   City Administrator. The City Administrator may:
         (a)   Approve the submitted plans;
         (b)   Approve the submitted plans with additions, modification or
changes; or
         (c)   Deny the submitted plans.
      (2)   Application. The applicant for site plan review shall submit to the
City Administrator plans consisting of maps, drawings, written descriptions or
other materials necessary and appropriate for the City Administrator to
determine that the proposed development will conform with the general
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Appeal. Any administrative action by the City Administrator with
respect to approval, modification or denial of site plan review may be appealed
by the applicant, as provided for in §
151.044.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.007 EXCLUSIONS FROM DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   An activity of development listed below is excluded from the requirement for
a development permit. Exclusion from the permit requirement does not exempt the
development or its use from applicable requirements of this chapter, including:
   (A)   Landscaping or other treatment or use of the land surface not
involving a structure;
   (B)   A change internal to a building or other structure that does not
substantially affect the use of the structure or a sign that is accessory to a
structure or use and that does not require a building permit;
   (C)   An emergency measure necessary for the safety or protection of
property;
   (D)   Erection of a tent or similar portable structure temporarily;
   (E)   Farming;
   (F)   The propagation or management of timber or the cutting of timber for
other purposes such as erosion control or personal use; and
   (G)   An alteration that does not substantially affect the use or appearance
of land or a structure.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.008 TEMPORARY PERMIT FOR EMERGENCY AND SHORT TERM HOUSING.
   (A)   In the event a home is made uninhabitable by accident, fire or natural
disaster, the occupants may seek permission to locate a travel trailer, motor
home, recreational vehicle or other temporary shelter on the property through a
temporary permit process as described in this section. In addition, permission
for short term stay at a commercial or industrial site or at the site of new
construction where a night watchman is needed may be sought under this section.
   (B)   This section does not allow occupancy of a travel trailer, motor home,
recreational vehicle or other temporary shelter as a place of residence apart
from the short term or emergency conditions described above.
      (1)   Permitted temporary uses. Temporary occupancy of travel trailers,
motor homes, recreational vehicles or other temporary shelter structures, may
be permitted on authority of the City Administrator using a Type I procedure as
described in § 151.205. Temporary permits may be issued as necessary to provide
for emergency or short term housing in the event of accident, fire or natural
disaster or for the purpose of providing shelter for a night watchman at a
commercial or industrial site or the site of new construction.
      (2)   Criteria for decision. No temporary permits shall be issued except
upon a finding that the temporary occupancy:
         (a)   Would not adversely impact neighboring residences; and
         (b)   Would not cause a public health, safety or sanitation hazard as
assessed by the City Administrator.
      (3)   Other conditions. Conditions are relative to the issuance of
temporary permits.
         (a)   Reasonable conditions may be imposed by the City Administrator
in connection with the temporary permit to minimize the potential impact of the
proposed temporary occupancy to other uses in the vicinity. Guarantees and
evidence may be required that such conditions will be or are being complied
with. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Maintenance of the grounds;
            2.   Control of noise, odors or other nuisances;
            3.   Limitation of time for occupancy;
            4.   Location of the shelter on the property;
            5.   Limitations placed on activities allowed on the site; and
            6.   Assurance that sanitation facilities available to residents
are adequate.
         (b)   Any temporary permit shall clearly set forth the conditions
under which the permit is granted, and shall clearly indicate the time period
for which the permit is issued. No temporary permit shall be transferrable to
any other owner or occupant, but may be renewable through the administrative
action process.
      (4)   Time limits and renewals for temporary permits.
         (a)   Temporary permits shall be issued for the period specified by
the approving authority. No permit shall be granted for more than 21 days.
Permits may be renewable upon expiration by an administrative action if all
applicable conditions can again be met.
         (b)   Renewal of a temporary permit shall follow the same procedure as
the initial application.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.009 TEMPORARY PERMIT FOR ADDITIONAL DWELLING UNIT FOR FAMILY HARDSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   When a family hardship exists because a medical condition which
relates to and is caused by handicap or infirmity or relates to a person
otherwise incapable of maintaining a separate residence, the hearings body may
authorize the placement of a mobile home on a lot in addition to a principal
residence.
      (2)   Such authorizations shall be considered similar to conditional use
permits and the Planning Commission shall attach conditions to approval as it
may deem necessary to assure minimization of adverse impact on neighboring
properties.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Requests for a temporary mobile home permit must be submitted on a
completed Planning Department application form which shall include the names
and addresses, and telephone numbers of the property owner, the resident if
different from the owner, the applicant if different from the owner or
resident, the proposed occupant of the mobile home and their relationship to
the resident, and the estimated period of time that the hardship will
necessitate the use of the mobile home. Property information and a site plan
will also be required.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant is also required to file with the permit
application a written statement describing any infirmity, debility or other
reason why the additional dwelling is necessary. Reasons for not utilizing the
existing residence for such accommodation must be included.
         (b)   The applicant must arrange for a physician to submit a written
statement detailing the medical necessity for such an accommodation and stating
why the person with the handicap or infirmity is incapable of maintaining a
separate residence.
      (3)   The hearings body may require the applicant to provide other such
evidence deemed necessary for just consideration of the request.
   (C)   Expiration and reapplication.
      (1)   The temporary permit shall expire upon termination of the hardship
or one year from the date of issuance, whichever comes first. Renewals of the
permit will require reapplication two months prior to the expiration date.
      (2)   For reapplication or where the City Administrator has reason to
believe the terms of the permit have been violated or there are other adverse
impacts to the neighborhood, notice shall be sent to property owners as
specified in §
151.027. If:
         (a)   Written objections are received;
         (b)   The City Administrator or the applicant so desire; or
         (c)   Three years have elapsed since the last hearing, the matter
shall be scheduled for public hearing before the Planning Commission as a
permit renewal and shall be considered a Type II procedure similar to that of a
conditional use permit.
      (3)   The permits are not transferrable. If ownership of the property is
transferred or the occupant changes, the permit is void. If the person who is
the subject of the hardship relocates, the permit is void and a new application
must be submitted for any new hardship or any new location.
      (4)   The mobile home must be removed within 30 days of the expiration of
the permit.
   (D)   Standards and conditions.
      (1)   The person(s) residing in the additional dwelling shall be member
(s) of the immediate family of the resident(s) of the permanent residence.
      (2)   There shall be no compensation involved in the hardship case.
      (3)   The mobile home shall:
         (a)   Meet the requirements of and be approved by the Building
Department;
         (b)   Be connected to the public sewer and water systems as directed
by the Director of Public Works and shall pay fees for such connections as
required by city ordinance;
         (c)   Have a permanent electrical installation;
         (d)   Meet all setbacks and coverage requirements pertaining to the
zone and shall be a minimum of six feet from the main building and all other
buildings;
         (e)   Be manufactured after June 15, 1976, and exhibit the “State
Department of Commerce Insignia of Compliance”;
         (f)   Not be structurally connected to the principal residence;
         (g)   Have skirting, as required by the Manufactured Home Ordinance
No. 349; and
         (h)   The mobile home and accessory building foundations, pads and
support blocking shall be sufficient strength to support the required live-
loads and actual dead-loads imposed by the mobile home and any attached or
supported structure based on accepted engineering design standards.
Foundations, tie-downs or other supports shall be provided to withstand the
specified horizontal, up-lift and overturning and wind forces on the mobile
home and any attached or supported structures based on accepted engineering
design standards.
   (E)   Permit to be a deed restriction. The requirements of this subchapter
and any conditions imposed by the hearings body shall be recorded with the
County Clerk and made a deed restriction. This shall be required prior to
installation of the additional dwelling.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.010 USE OF A DEVELOPMENT.
   A development may be used only for a use that is not prohibited by law and
for which the development is designed, arranged and intended or which is
nonconforming.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.011 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   The city contracts with the County Building Department (Building
Department) for building inspection services and for the issuance of occupancy
permits.
   (B)   No lot or parcel in any zoning district established under the
provisions of this chapter shall hereafter be occupied or used, and no building
or structure hereafter shall be used or occupied until an occupancy permit is
issued therefor by the Building Department, except as otherwise exempted from
the requirements of this section.
      (1)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
dwelling where such dwelling is a permitted use in the applicable zoning
district and the use of the dwelling is for residential purposes, nor shall the
provisions of this section apply to agricultural and resource management
activities where the applicable district permits such activities. Uses and
activities which lawfully exist at the time this chapter becomes effective
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section until such time as a change
in use or occupancy occurs as specified in this section.
      (2)   Applications. Application for an occupancy permit for a new use, a
change in land use, for a new building or structure or for an existing building
or structure shall be made to the Building Department before any such building,
structure or land is occupied or used.
      (3)   Issuance. An occupancy permit shall be issued within five working
days after:
         (a)   Written notice is received by the Building Department that the
premises are ready for use or occupancy; and
         (b)   Inspection by the Building Department indicates that the
building or use is in conformity with this chapter and other applicable laws
and regulations of the jurisdiction and the state.
      (4)   Records. The Building Department shall maintain a current record of
all occupancy permits issued under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.012 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Except as is hereinafter provided by this chapter, the lawful use of a
building or structure or of any land or premises lawfully existing at the time
of the effective date of this chapter or at the time of a change in the
official zoning maps may be continued, although such use does not conform with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Changes in nonconforming uses. A nonconforming use may be changed only
to a use conforming to the zone in which it is located. Once changed to a
conforming use no building or land shall be permitted to revert to a
nonconforming use.
   (B)   Increase of nonconforming use. A nonconforming use shall not be
increased, except that permission to extend the use to any portion of a
building or lot which portion was arranged or designed for such nonconforming
use at the time of the passage of this chapter may be granted by the City
Administrator subject to the provisions of this chapter, and further excepting
that existing Mobile Home Parks or Manufactured Dwelling Parks may be expanded
as a conditional use as provided in §
151.092.
   (C)   Vested right. Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any
change in the plans, construction, alteration or designated use of a structure
on which construction has physically, lawfully and substantially commenced
prior to the adoption of this chapter, provided the structure, if nonconforming
or intended for a nonconforming use, is completed and in use within two years
from the time construction was commenced.
   (D)   Discontinuance of nonconforming use. When a nonconforming use of a
structure or property is discontinued for a period in excess of one year, the
structure or property shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with
the zone in which it is located. When the nonconforming use is a sign
pertaining to a business product or service and 30 days have transpired since
the business product or service has been offered to the public at the location
of the sign, the use shall be discontinued.
   (E)   Unlawful use not a nonconforming use. No unlawful use of property
existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming
use.
   (F)   Restoration of nonconforming building or structure.
      (1)   A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged by fire,
flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy, to
an extent not greater than 80% of the market value contained in the records of
the County Assessor, may be restored and the occupancy or use of such building
or structure or part thereof, which existed at the time of such partial
destruction may be resumed, provided that the restoration is commenced within a
period of one year and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
      (2)   The restoration or reconstruction of a nonconforming building or
structure may not increase the floor area or create a greater nonconformance
than existed at the time of damage or destruction.
   (G)   Conveyance of nonconforming use. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to limit the sale, transfer or other conveyance of property on which
exists a nonconforming building, structure or use, so long as such sale,
transfer or other conveyance does not otherwise violate the provisions of this
chapter.
   (H)   Restoration of conforming use on non-conforming lot. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to prevent the reconstruction or replacement of a
pre-existing building or structure conforming as to use on a nonconforming lot,
so long as such lot did not become nonconforming in violation of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (I)   Application for alterations or repairs.
      (1)   Alterations or repairs of a nonconforming use may be permitted to
continue the use in a reasonable manner subject to the provisions of §
151.005 of this chapter.
      (2)   Application for alteration or repair is a Type II procedure as
listed in §
151.025 of this chapter and shall be processed according to the process
described in §
151.027.
   (J)   Conditions of approval for alterations or repairs.
      (1)   The value of alteration shall not exceed 50% of the assessed value
of the structure or sign as determined by the County Assessor’s Office.
      (2)   The land covered by the structure shall not be increased.
      (3)   Alterations shall be permitted when necessary to comply with any
lawful requirement for alteration in the use.
      (4)   To assure compatibility of a proposed alteration or repair with the
surrounding area, additional conditions for approval may be required. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Special yards and spaces;
         (b)   Fences and walls;
         (c)   Special parking and/or loading provisions;
         (d)   Street dedication and improvements or bonds in lieu of
improvements;
         (e)   Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;
         (f)   Special provisions for signs;
         (g)   Landscaping and the maintenance of grounds;
         (h)   Control of noise, vibration, odors or other similar nuisances;
         (i)   Limitation of time for certain activities;
         (j)   A time period in which a proposed use shall be developed; and
         (k)   A limit of total duration of use.
   (K)   General exceptions to lot size requirements.
      (1)   If a lot of record or series of contiguous units of land existing
in a single ownership were created in compliance with all applicable laws and
ordinances in effect at the time of their creation and have an area or
dimension which does not meet the lot size requirements of the zone in which
the property is located, the holding(s) may be occupied by a use permitted in
the zone subject to other requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to limit the sale,
transfer or other conveyance of any such single lot of record or unit of land.
   (L)   General exception for approved subdivision. Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to prohibit construction of conforming uses on nonconforming
lots or the sale of said lots within subdivisions or land partitions approved
prior to the adoption of this chapter, subject to other requirements of this
chapter
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.013 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   (A)   A temporary use permit may be approved by the City Administrator to
allow uses and activities which are temporary or seasonal in nature and do not
conflict with the zoning district in which they are located.
   (B)   No temporary use permit shall be issued which would have the effect of
permanently rezoning or granting a special privilege not shared by other
properties in the same zoning district.
      (1)   Permitted temporary uses. Temporary structures, activities or uses
may be permitted on authority of the City Administrator using a Type I
procedure as described in §
151.026. Temporary permits may be issued as necessary to provide for housing of
personnel, storage and use of supplies and equipment, or to provide for
temporary sales offices for uses permitted in the zoning district. Other uses
may include temporary signs, outdoor gatherings, short-term uses, roadside
stands or other uses not specified in this chapter and not so recurrent as to
require a specific or general regulation to control them.
      (2)   Criteria for decision. No temporary permits shall be issued except
upon a finding that the proposed structure, activity or use would not permit
the permanent establishment within a zoning district of any use which is not
permitted within the zoning district, or any use for which a conditional use
permit is required.
      (3)   Conditions relative to the issuance of temporary permits.
         (a)   Reasonable conditions may be imposed by the City Administrator
in connection with the temporary permit to minimize the potential impact of the
proposed use to other uses in the vicinity. Guarantees and evidence may be
required that such conditions will be or are being complied with. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Special yards and spaces;
            2.   Fences or walls;
            3.   Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;
            4.   Special provisions on signs;
            5.   Landscaping and maintenance thereof;
            6.   Maintenance of the grounds;
            7.   Control of noise, odors or other nuisances; and
            8.   Limitation of time for certain activities.
         (b)   Any temporary permit shall clearly set forth the conditions
under which the permit is granted, and shall clearly indicate the time period
for which the permit is issued. No temporary permit shall be transferrable to
any other owner or occupant, but may be renewable through the administrative
action process.
         (c)   All structures for which a temporary permit is issued:
            1.   Shall meet all other requirements of the zoning district in
which they are located;
            2.   Shall meet all applicable health and sanitation requirements;
            3.   Shall meet all applicable building code requirements; and
            4.   Shall be removed upon expiration of the temporary permit
unless renewed by the City Administrator or converted to a permitted use.
      (4)   Time limits and renewals for temporary permits.
         (a)   Temporary permits shall be issued for the time period specified
by the approving authority, but may be renewable upon expiration by an
administrative action if all applicable conditions can again be met. In no case
shall a temporary permit be issued for a period exceeding one year, unless the
temporary permit is renewed.
         (b)   Renewal of a temporary permit shall follow the same procedure as
the initial application.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
PROCEDURES FOR DECISION MAKING
§ 151.025 APPLICABLE PROCEDURES.
Application Type of Procedure
Application                                                  Type of Procedure
Approval for operation of mobile food carts                  Type I
Building permit                                              Type I
Changes in use where rezoning is not required                Type I
Excavation permit for work in the public right-of-way        Type I
Lot line adjustment                                          Type I
Minor land partition with services installed or available    Type I
Permit for mobile home                                       Type I
Sign permit                                                  Type I
Temporary permit for emergency and short term housing        Type I
Temporary use permits                                        Type I
Change (alteration or repair) or termination of non-         Type II
conforming uses
Conditional use                                              Type II
Minor land partition without services installed or available Type II
Revocation of permit                                         Type II
Variance                                                     Type II
Comprehensive Plan change                                    Type III
When quasi-judicial in nature: rezoning                      Type III
Major land partition                                         Type IV
Subdivision                                                  Type IV
Amendments to the land use code                              Type V
Comprehensive Plan change                                    Type V
When legislative in nature: rezoning                         Type V
 
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.026 TYPE I PROCEDURE.
   An application for development processed through a Type I procedure shall be
processed as follows.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit the materials specified in §
151.031 to the City Administrator. The City Administrator shall review the
materials submitted for completeness and shall within 30 days of receipt of the
application, notify the applicant of any items missing. The applicant shall
submit the missing items within 120 days.
   (B)   After the applicant has submitted all the required materials, the
application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032, the City Administrator shall review the application for compliance
with this chapter, the Comprehensive Plan and the Standards Document and shall
refer it to any necessary agencies for review of compliance with state, federal
or county requirements.
   (C)   Within 30 days after applicant has submitted all required material to
the City Administrator, application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032, the City Administrator shall grant or deny the development permit. The
City Administrator shall grant the permit if he or she finds that the
applicable approvals by others have been granted and that the development
conforms to the requirements of division (B) above; otherwise, the permit shall
be denied.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall notify the applicant of his or her
decision, and in case of a denial, shall state the reason for the denial and
describe the applicant’s available remedies.
   (E)   Upon notification of approval of an application for a minor partition
with services installed or available, the applicant shall submit the
information required by §
151.029(L) except that the information required by §
151.029(L)(4) need not be submitted. If this information is not submitted
within 180 days, the approval is void.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.027 TYPE II PROCEDURE.
   An application for development or revocation of a permit or termination of a
nonconforming use processed through a Type II procedure shall be processed as
follows.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit the materials specified in §
151.031 to the City Administrator. The City Administrator shall review the
materials submitted for completeness and shall within 30 days of receipt of the
application, notify the applicant of any items missing. The applicant shall
submit the missing items within 180 days.
   (B)   After the applicant has submitted all the required materials
application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032 or when requested to do so by the Planning Commission, the City
Administrator shall schedule a hearing on the application, revocation or
termination before the Planning Commission and mail notice of the hearing to
all persons materially affected by the proposed development, use, revocation or
termination.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held within 60 days after the applicant has
submitted all the required materials application is deemed complete as defined
in §
151.032 or the Planning Commission has requested a hearing. At the nearing the
applicant or owner and all interested persons may present information and
arguments relevant to the proposal.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall make a decision approving, conditionally
approving or denying the application or proposed revocation or termination.
   (E)   The applicant or any person materially affected by the decision may
appeal the decision to the City Council.
   (F)   If the decision of the Planning Commission is appealed, the City
Administrator shall schedule a hearing before the City Council to be held
within 45 days of the decision and shall mail notice of this appeal to all
persons materially affected by the proposed development, use, revocation or
termination. The decision of the City Council shall be made within 120 days
from the date the application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032. This 120 days period may be extended for a reasonable period of time
at the request of the applicant.
   (G)   The City Council shall make its decision on a review of the record of
the Planning Commission hearing supplemented by such additional commentary or
testimony as the City Council may in its discretion allow.
   (H)   The City Council shall make a decision affirming, affirming with
modifications or reversing the decision of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Upon notification of approval of an application for a minor partition
without services installed or available, the applicant shall submit the
information required by §
151.029(L). If this information is not submitted within 180 days, the approval
is void.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.028 TYPE III PROCEDURE.
   An application for development processed through a Type III procedure shall
be processed as follows.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit the materials specified in §
151.031 to the City Administrator. The City Administrator shall review the
materials submitted for completeness and shall within 30 days of receipt of the
applications, notify the applicant of any items missing. The applicant shall
submit the missing items within 180 days.
   (B)   After the applicant has submitted the required materials, application
is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032, the City Administrator shall transmit the relevant materials to the
Planning Commission for its review. The Planning Commission may also initiate a
proposal on its own motion.
   (C)   Within 60 days after the materials have been submitted to the Planning
Commission or the Planning Commission has initiated a proposal, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council as to whether the
application or proposal should be approved, approved with conditions or denied.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall schedule a hearing before the City
Council to be held within 30 days after the recommendation of the Planning
Commission has been received.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall mail notice of the City Council hearing
to all persons materially affected by the proposed development or use and shall
publish and post the notice. For an application to rezone a mobile home park,
notice shall also be mailed to each tenant at least 20 days, but not more than
40 days, before the hearing.
   (F)   At the hearing, the applicant and all interested persons may present
information and arguments relevant to the proposal.
   (G)   The City Council shall make a decision on the application or proposal
by approving, conditionally approving or denying the proposed development or
use. For any decision wholly within the authority of the City Council and not
forwarded to the director of the Department of Land Conservation and
Development as required by O.R.S. 197.610(1) (post acknowledgment review), the
decision of the City Council shall be made within 120 days of the receipt of
the date the application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032. This 120 days period may be extended for a reasonable period of time
at the request of the applicant.
   (H)   If the proposed development is a change in the Comprehensive Plan text
and map as it pertains to the urban growth area, the urban growth boundary, the
urbanization policies, a decision approving the development shall not become
effective until the county also approves the proposal or the proposal is
reviewed and approved by the Land Use Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.029 TYPE IV PROCEDURE.
   An application for development processed through a Type IV procedure shall
be processed as follows.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant shall submit the materials specified in §
151.031 and ten copies of a tentative plan of the development for a subdivision
or a tentative map of the development for a partition to the City
Administrator.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall review the materials submitted for
completeness and shall within 30 days of receipt of the application, notify the
applicant of any items missing. The applicant shall submit the missing items
within 180 days.
   (B)   The tentative plan of a proposed subdivision shall be on a scale of
one inch equals 100 feet or as approved by the County Surveyor, and shall
include the following information either shown on the plan map itself or on
supplementary documents:
      (1)   Proposed names of the subdivision. This name shall not duplicate
nor resemble the name of another subdivision in the county or the city and
shall be approved by the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Date, northpoint and scale of drawing;
      (3)   Appropriate identification of the drawing as a tentative plan;
      (4)   Location of the subdivision sufficient to define its location and
boundaries and a legal description of the tract boundaries;
      (5)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and engineer or
surveyor;
      (6)   The location, widths of rights-of-way or easement and pavement
width, and names of both opened and unopened streets within or adjacent to the
tract, together with other easements and other important features such as
section lines, section corners, city boundary lines and monuments;
      (7)   Contour lines related to some established bench mark or other datum
approved by the City Engineer and having minimum intervals as follows:
         (a)   For slopes of less than five percent: show the direction of
slope by means of arrows or other suitable symbols together with not less than
four spot elevations per lot, evenly distributed;
         (b)   For slopes of 5% to 15%: five feet;
         (c)   For slopes of 15% to 20%: ten feet; and
         (d)   For slopes of over 20%: 20 feet.
      (8)   The location of at least one temporary bench mark within the
subdivision boundaries;
      (9) The location, size and direction of water courses and the location of
areas subject to flooding, including standard project flood and other
information required by §§
151.110 through
151.123;
      (10)   Natural features such as rock outcroppings, marshes, wooded areas
and isolated preservable trees;
      (11)   Existing uses of the property and location of existing structures
to remain on the property after platting;
      (12)   The location, width, names, approximate grades and radii of curves
of proposed streets. The relationship of proposed streets to projected streets
as shown on the Comprehensive Plan;
      (13)   The location, width and purpose of proposed easements;
      (14)   The location and approximate sizes and dimensions of proposed lots
and the proposed lot and block numbers;
      (15)   Proposed sites, if any, allocated for purposes other than single
family dwellings;
      (16)   A vicinity map showing existing subdivision and unsubdivided land
ownerships adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
      (17)   Proposed deed restrictions, if any, in outline form;
      (18)   The location within the subdivision and in the adjoining streets
and property of existing sewers, water-mains, culverts, streets, drain pipes
and utility lines, and how they may be extended to connect to existing
facilities;
      (19)   Approximate centerline profiles with extension for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision showing the finished
grade of streets and the nature and extent of street construction;
      (20)   A plan for domestic water supply lines and related water service
facilities;
      (21)   Proposals for sewage disposal, stormwater drainage and flood
control, including profiles of proposed drainage ways, if necessary;
      (22)   If lot areas are to be graded, a plan showing the nature of cuts
and fills and information on the character of the soil;
      (23)   Proposals for other improvements such as electric utilities and
sidewalks;
      (24)   A preliminary title report issued by a title insurance company in
the name of the owner of the land showing all parties whose consent is
necessary and their interest in the premises and all encumbrances, covenants
and other restrictions pertaining to the subject property;
      (25)   For areas within or directly adjacent to areas identified as
“unstable” on the Comprehensive Plan, Slope, Floodplain and Geology Map, an
evaluation by a licenses geologist or licensed engineer stating whether or not
each proposed lot is stable and suitable for their intended use; and
      (26)   For areas with slopes greater than 25%, an evaluation by a
licensed geologist or licensed engineer stating the capability of each proposed
lot to support structures and with what types of conditions.
   (C)   The tentative map of a proposed partition shall be 15 by 18 inches in
size and shall include the following information, either shown on the map
itself or in supplementary documents:
      (1)   The date, northpoint and scale of drawing;
      (2)   Appropriate identification of the drawing as a tentative map;
      (3)   Location of the partition sufficient to define its location and
boundaries and a legal description of the tract boundaries;
      (4)   The name and address of the person who prepared the map;
      (5)   Approximate acreage of the parcel to be partitioned;
      (6)   For land adjacent to and within the parcel to be partitioned,
locations, names and widths of existing rights-of-way and streets, widths of
improvements, locations, width and purpose of all existing easements, location
and size of sewer and water lines, drainage ways and base flood elevation data
and other information required by §§
151.110 through
151.123;
      (7)   For areas within or directly adjacent to areas identified as
“unstable” on the Comprehensive Plan, Slope, Floodplain, and Geology Map, an
evaluation by a licensed geologist or licensed engineer stating whether or not
each proposed parcel is stable and suitable for their intended use is required;
      (8)   For areas with slopes greater than 25%, an evaluation by a licensed
geologist or licensed engineer stating the capability of each proposed lot to
support structures and with what types of conditions;
      (9)   Outline and location of existing buildings to remain in place;
      (10)   Parcel layout showing size and relationship to existing or
proposed streets and easements; and
      (11)   A preliminary title report issued by a title insurance company in
the name of the owner of the land, showing all parties whose consent is
necessary and their interest in the premises.
   (D)   After the applicant has submitted the required materials, application
is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032, the City Administrator shall submit the relevant materials to the
Planning Commission, county, state and federal agencies and special districts
for their review and comment.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall schedule a hearing before the Planning
Commission to be held within 50 days after the materials have been submitted
application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032 and shall mail notice of the hearing to the applicant and all persons
materially affected by the proposed development or use. This notice shall also
be published and posted.
   (F)   At the hearing, the applicant and all interested persons may present
information and arguments relevant to the proposal.
   (G)   The Planning Commission shall make a decision approving, conditionally
approving or denying the application.
   (H)   The applicant or any person aggrieved by the decision may appeal the
decision of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   If the decision of the Planning Commission is appealed, the City
Administrator shall schedule a hearing before the City Council to be held
within 60 days of the decision and shall mail notice of this hearing to all
persons materially affected by the proposed development and shall publish and
post the notice. The decision of the City Council shall be made within 120 days
from the date the application is deemed complete as defined in §
151.032. This 120 day period may be extended for a reasonable period of time at
the request of the applicant.
   (J)   At the City Council hearing, the Planning Commission shall present its
findings and conclusions and all interested persons may present information and
arguments relevant to the proposal.
   (K)   The City Council shall make a decision approving, conditionally
approving or denying the application.
   (L)   Unless an extension is granted in accordance with division (N) below,
within one year after the effective date of the approval of the tentative plan
for a subdivision, or within 180 days after the effective date of approval of a
tentative map for a partition, the applicant shall submit the final plat for a
subdivision or final map for a partition, and the following additional
materials to the City Administrator:
      (1)   The required fee;
      (2)   Five copies of the final plat map;
      (3)   All information required by the Standards Document;
      (4)   Improvement plans prepared by a registered civil engineer, an
executed agreement for improvements and security for improvements;
      (5)   An undated title report;
      (6)   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the subdivision and a
description of the boundaries of the restrictions;
      (7)   Land parcels to be dedicated for any purpose, public or private, to
be distinguished from lots intended for sale;
      (8)   Written proof that all taxes and assessments on the tract are to be
paid to date;
      (9)   The name and signature of the licensed surveyor who prepared the
plan or map and written certification of the surveyor serving the city that the
plan or map complies with applicable survey laws;
      (10)   Written approval from the board of directors of any special
district if the subdivision is within such district;
      (11)   Traverse data, including the coordinates of the boundary of the
partition and ties to section corners and donation land claim corners and
showing the error of closure which shall not exceed one foot in 10,000 feet;
      (12)   Computation of all distances, angles and courses shown on the
final plat or map;
      (13)   Monumentation as specified by the county surveyor; and
      (14)   Ties to existing monuments, proposed monuments, adjacent
subdivisions, street corners, a section, quarter section or donated land corner
and state highway stationing.
   (M)   The final plat shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision, date, scale, northpoint (generally
point up), legend and controlling topography such as creeks, highways and
railroads;
      (2)   Legal description of the tract boundaries;
      (3)   Name and address of the owner(s), subdivider and surveyor;
      (4)   Referenced points of existing surveys identified, related to the
plat by distances and bearings, and referenced to a field book or map as
follows:
         (a)   All stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the ground and
used to determine the boundaries of the subdivision;
         (b)   A tie to a government corner, quarter corner or donation; land
claim corner and adjoining corners of all adjoining subdivisions;
         (c)   Township, range, section and donation land claim lines within or
adjacent to the plat;
         (d)   Whenever the city has established the center line of a street
adjacent to or within the proposed subdivision, the location of this line and
monuments found or reset; and
         (e)   All other monuments found and the location, material and size of
all monuments established in making the survey of the subdivision or required
to be installed by provisions of this chapter or by the County or City
Surveyor. Specifications and procedures for monumentation shall be as required
by the County Surveyor.
      (5)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines, and centerlines of
streets; lot and block lines with dimensions, bearings, or deflection angles
and radii, arcs, points of curvature, and tangent bearing. Tract boundaries and
street bearings shall be shown to the nearest ten seconds with basis of
bearings, all distances shall be shown to the nearest 0.01 feet. Error of
closure shall be within the limit of one foot in 10,000 feet. No ditto marks
shall be used. Lots containing one acre or more shall show total acreage to
nearest hundredth;
      (6)   The width of the portion of streets being dedicated, the width of
any existing right-of-way and the widths each side of the centerline. For
streets on curvature, all curve data shall be based on the street centerline
and in addition to centerline dimensions shall indicate thereon the radius and
central angle;
      (7)   All easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified and,
if already of record, its recorded reference. If any easement is not definitely
located of record, a statement of such easement. The widths of the easement and
the lengths and bearings of the lines thereof and sufficient ties thereto to
definitely locate the easement with respect to the subdivision must be shown.
If the easement is being dedicated by the map, it shall be properly referenced
in the owner’s certificate of dedication;
      (8)   Lot numbers beginning with the number “1” in each block;
      (9)   Block numbers beginning with the number “1” and continuing
consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the subdivision. The
numbers shall be solid, of sufficient size and thickness to stand out and so
placed as not to obliterate any figure. Block numbers in addition to a
subdivision of the same name shall be a continuation of the numbering in the
original subdivision;
      (10)   Land parcels to be dedicated for any purpose, public or private,
to be distinguishable from lots intended for sale;
      (11)   Building setback lines, if any, are to be made a part of the
subdivision restriction;
      (12)   The zoning classification; and
      (13)   The following certificates, which may be combined where
appropriate:
         (a)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title interest in the land subdivided, consenting to the preparation and
recordation of said map;
         (b)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, offering for
dedication all parcels of land shown on the final map intended for any public
use except those parcels which are intended for the exclusive use of the lot
owners in the subdivision, their licenses, visitors, tenants and servants;
         (c)   A certificate signed by the surveyor responsible for the survey
and final map. The signature of such surveyor to be accompanied by his or her
seal;
         (d)   Provisions for all other certifications now or hereafter
required by law; and
         (e)   Space for date and signature of the Board of Commissioners, the
County Surveyor, the County Assessor and the Mayor.
   (N)   Prior to the expiration of one year from approval of a tentative plan
for a subdivision or within six months from the approval of tentative map for a
major partition, the applicant may request, in writing, an extension of six
months to submit the final plat or map. The Planning Commission shall determine
whether the request will be granted.
   (O)   (1)   Within 40 days after receipt of the documents specified in
division (M) above, the City Administrator and City Engineer shall determine
whether the final plat or map and improvements plans conform to the tentative
plan or map, this chapter and the Standards Document. If there is a failure to
conform, the applicant shall be advised and afforded an opportunity to make
corrections. When the plat or map is found to conform, it shall be submitted to
the City Council for approval and signature by the Mayor.
      (2)   The City Council shall approve the final plat or map if a
subdivision agreement has been executed and approved and security has been
posted as required by the Standards Document.
      Approval by the City Council of the final plat or map shall not be deemed
to constitute or effect an acceptance by the public of any improvements or of
the dedication of any street or easement shown on the plat or map.
   (P)   The City Administrator shall deliver the approved final plat or map
and accompanying documents to the county records for recording and notify the
applicant of this action.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.030 TYPE V PROCEDURE.
   Land use actions determined to involve such a substantial area and number of
property owners or such broad public policy changes that processing as a quasi-
judicial decision would be inappropriate shall be processed as follows unless
different or additional procedures are required by state statute or the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   The proposed action shall be referred to the Planning Commission for
its recommendation. The Planning Commission may also initiate a proposal on its
own motion.
   (B)   All Planning Commission meetings at which the subject is considered
shall be open for public comment and such participation as the Planning
Commission may deem appropriate.
   (C)   In preparing its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall do the
following:
      (1)   Review the nature of the proposal and describe whether the proposal
warrants processing as a legislative matter;
      (2)   Identify the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan that govern the
decision and prepare findings describing how the proposal complies or fails to
comply with these plan provisions; and
      (3)   State reasons for the recommendations and make the recommendations.
Recommendations may include policy advice of the Planning Commission in
addition to determinations described in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (d)   After receiving the Planning Commission recommendations, the City
Council may schedule a public hearing.
   (e)   The City Council shall publish an appropriate notice of the public
hearing if one is scheduled.
   (f)   At the hearing, the City Council shall afford interested persons the
opportunity to submit oral and written comments on the proposed action.
   (g)   After the hearing, the City Council may enact or defeat an ordinance,
decide to have the matter processed under Type I through IV procedures, refer
the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration, or
dismiss the matter without any action.
   (h)   If the decision of the City Council amends the Comprehensive Plan text
or map as it pertains to the urban growth area, the urban growth boundary, and
urbanization policies, or amends the text of this chapter which is applicable
to the urban growth area, the decision shall not become effective until the
county also approves the proposal or the proposal is reviewed and approved by
the Land Use Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.031 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Except as excluded herein, all applicants for development permits
processed under Type I through IV procedures shall submit the following
materials to the City Administrator:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A statement of the nature of the development and the reasons
therefor;
      (3)   All information required by the Standards Document;
      (4)   Proof that the property affected by the application is in the
exclusive ownership of the applicant, or that the applicant has the consent of
all partners in ownership of the affected property;
      (5)   Legal description of the property affected by the application;
      (6)   The application fee; and
      (7)   A list of the property owners or other persons affected by the
proposed development or use to receive notice of hearing.
   (B)   The information required by division (A)(7) above need not be
submitted by an applicant for a development permit processed under a Type I
procedure.
   (C)   An applicant for one development project may at one time apply for all
necessary permits for this project and have all of these applications processed
concurrently.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.032 COMPLETION OF APPLICATION.
   An application is deemed complete for purposes of this chapter in the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If the City Administrator finds the initial application to be
complete, the application shall be deemed complete on the thirty-first day
after submission;
   (B)   If the City Administrator requires the submission of missing items and
the applicant refuses, in writing, to submit these items, the application shall
be deemed complete on the thirty-first day after initial submission;
   (C)   If the City Administrator requires the submission of missing items and
the applicant submits these items within 120 days, the application shall be
deemed complete on the date of receipt of these items; and
   (D)   If the City Administrator requires the submission of the missing items
and the applicant does not furnish these items within 120 days, the application
shall be deemed complete on the one-hundred- twenty-first day after the
applicant was notified to submit the missing items.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.033 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   When notice is required to be given by any provision in this chapter, it
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The date, time and place of the hearing;
   (B)   A description reasonably calculated to inform a person of the location
of the property for which a development permit or other action is pending
including the address of the property in question or its nearest cross streets;
   (C)   The nature of the issue up for hearing;
   (D)   A description of the parties that have standing to appear and be
heard;
   (E)   The sections of the ordinance that are pertinent to the hearing
procedure; and
   (F)   Where information may be examined and when and how written comments
addressing findings required for a decision by the hearing body may be
submitted.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.034 MAILING OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice required to be given to all persons material affected by a
proposed development or use shall be mailed at a minimum to the applicant and
all owners of property located within 300 feet of the proposed development or
use.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, addresses for a mailed notice required by
this chapter shall be obtained from the county’s real property tax records.
Unless the address is on file with the City Administrator, a person whose name
is not in the tax records at the time of filing of an application, or of
initiating other action not based on an application, need not be furnished
mailed notice. The failure of a property owner to receive notice shall not
invalidate an action if a good faith attempt was made to comply with the
requirements of this chapter for notice.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.035 POSTED OR PUBLISHED NOTICE.
   (A)   If posted notice is required, it shall be posted in at least two
conspicuous places within the area containing affected property and in
additional places if the distance between notice exceeds 500 feet (e.g., city
hall and the like).
   (B)   If published notice is required, it shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.036 TIME OF NOTICE.
   Unless otherwise provided, notice required by this chapter shall be mailed,
posted and/or first published not less than 20 days prior to the hearing
requiring the notice.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.037 PARTICIPATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION OR CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Except for Type V hearings conducted by the governing body, no member of the
Planning Commission or City Council shall participate in a discussion of the
proposal or vote on the proposal when any of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   Any of the following have a direct or substantial financial interest
in the proposal: the hearing body member, or the member’s spouse, brother,
sister, child, parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, any business in which the
member is then serving or had served within the previous two years, or any
business with which the member is negotiating for or has an arrangement or
understanding concerning prospective partnership or employment;
   (B)   The member owns property within the area entitled to receive notice of
the public hearing;
   (C)   The member has a direct private interest in the proposal; or
   (D)   For any other valid reason, the member has determined that
participation in the hearing and decision cannot be in an impartial manner.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.038 PARTICIPATION BY INTERESTED OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   No officer or employee of the city who has a financial or other private
interest in a proposal shall participate in discussion with or give an official
opinion to the hearing body on the proposal without first declaring for the
record the nature and extent of such interest.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.039 EX PARTE CONTACTS.
   All members of the Planning Commission or City Council shall reveal the
content of any significant pre-hearing or ex parte contacts with regard to any
matter set for public hearing at the commencement of the public hearing on the
matter. The member shall decide whether these contacts have impaired the
member’s impartiality or ability to vote on the matter, and if member’s
impartiality or ability to vote on the matter, and if so, shall abstain in
accordance with §
151.040. Any party to such contact shall be given opportunity for rebuttal of
the substance of the communication.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.040 ABSTENTION OR DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   Any member of the Planning Commission or City Council who feels that
he or she cannot make an impartial decision on a matter shall abstain from
participation and voting and state the reason for the abstention on the
records.
   (B)   If any member’s qualifications to participate in a hearing and
decision have been challenged and the member has not abstained from
participation and voting, a majority of the members of the hearing body present
and voting may disqualify the challenged member. The challenged member may not
vote on the motion to disqualify.
   (C)   An abstaining or disqualified member may be counted for purposes of
forming a quorum.
   (D)   If all members of a hearing body abstain or are disqualified, they
shall nevertheless proceed to resolve the issues.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.041 FINDINGS AND ORDER.
   Whenever a decision is made, the hearing body shall prepare findings of fact
and an order which shall include:
   (A)   A statement of the applicable criteria and standards against which the
proposal was tested, and of the hearing body’s interpretation of what would be
required to achieve compliance with the criteria and standards;
   (B)   A statement of the facts which the hearing body found establishing
compliance or non- compliance with each applicable criteria and assurance of
compliance with applicable standards;
   (C)   The reasons for conclusion to approve or deny; and
   (D)   The decision to deny or approve the proposed change with or without
conditions.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.042 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   Whenever a decision is made, the City Administrator shall mail notice of the
decision to the applicant and all parties of record who have requested such
notice within two days of the date of the decision.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.043 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall cause all hearings to
be recorded stenographically or electronically.
   (B)   Testimony shall be transcribed if required for judicial review or if
ordered by the hearing body.
   (C)   The hearing body shall, where practicable, retain as part of the
hearing record each item of physical or documentary evidence presented and
shall have the items marked to show the identify of the person offering the
same and whether presented on behalf of a proponent or opponent. Exhibits
received into evidence shall be retained in the hearing file until after the
applicable appeal period has expired, at which time the exhibits may be
released to the person identified thereon, or otherwise disposed of.
   (D)   The findings and order shall be included in the record.
   (E)   A person shall have access to the record of the proceedings at
reasonable times, places and circumstances. A person shall be entitled to make
copies of the record at the person’s own expense.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.044 METHOD OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision on the issuance of a development
permit may initiate an appeal provided for in this chapter by filing a notice
of appeal with the City Administrator within 15 days of the date of the
decision and by paying the required appeal fee.
   (B)   The notice of the appeal shall contain:
      (1)   An identification of the decision sought to be reviewed, including
the date of the decision;
      (2)   A statement of the interest of the person seeking review and
whether or not he or she was a party to the initial proceedings;
      (3)   The specific grounds relied upon for review; and
      (4)   Whether the person seeks to present additional testimony or other
new evidence is requested, and if so, the nature of this evidence and the
reason it was not presented previously.
   (C)   The filing of a notice of appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the decision appealed from unless the decision-making body shall
include in its decision a finding that such a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.045 ATTENDANCE AT HEARINGS.
   Where a member of a hearing body has not been present at the entire hearing
of a matter, the member may still participate in the decision if the member
reviews the record of the proceeding prior to the decision.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
CRITERIA FOR DECISION MAKING
§ 151.060 BUILDING PERMITS, SIGN PERMITS, EXCAVATION IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY AND
HOME OCCUPATION.
   A development permit allowing excavation in the right of way, development of
a structure, accessing structure or sign or allowing a home occupation shall be
granted if the proposed development will comply with this chapter, the
Standards Document and all other rules and regulations pertaining to
construction of a structure, accessory structure, sign or home occupation.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.061 CHANGE IN USE WHERE REZONING NOT REQUIRED.
   A development permit allowing a change in use where a rezoning is not
required shall be granted if the proposed change will comply with this chapter
and the Standards Document.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.062 MINOR PARTITION.
   (A)   A development permit allowing a minor land partition where services
are installed or available shall be granted if the proposed partition will
comply with this code and the Standards Document.
   (B)   A development permit allowing a minor land partition where services
are not installed or available may be granted if the following criteria are
met:
      (1)   The proposed partition will comply with this chapter, the Standards
Document and the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The property owner enters into an agreement to install required
services at or before the time of further development of the land and an
agreement consenting to future improvement of the land through the use of an
improvement district.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.063 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   A lot line adjustment may be granted if the proposal complies with the
Standards Document and the following criteria are met:
   (A)   All adjusted lots will be no more non-conforming than the original
lots with respect to minimum lot area, dimensions and building setback
requirements for the given zone;
   (B)   No additional unit of land is created;
   (C)   All adjustments are within a given zone and not among differing zones;
   (D)   The adjustment will not affect or impede the public right-of-way or
any recorded easement; and
   (E)   A survey has established monuments to mark the adjusted boundary line
or a survey map has been prepared that complies with O.R.S. 209.250.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.064 CONDITIONAL USE.
   A development permit allowing a conditional use may be granted if the
following criteria are met:
   (A)   The use is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood and will have
minimal impact on the liability or appropriate development of surrounding
properties;
   (B)   There are no detrimental effects upon the neighborhood or community;
   (C)   The use is consistent with and promotes the objectives of this code,
the Standards Document and the Comprehensive Plan; and
   (D)   The use will conserve and stabilize the value of adjacent property,
encourage the most appropriate use of land, present an attractive appearance
that is consistent with adjacent properties, and is similar to existing
permitted uses in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.065 VARIANCE.
   (A)   A development permit allowing a variance in the requirements of this
chapter or the Standards Document may be granted if the following criteria are
met:
      (1)   The property owner is unable to enjoy substantial property rights
enjoyed by others in same zoning classification;
      (2)   The application of rules and regulations would cause an undue or
unnecessary practical difficulty or physical hardship;
      (3)   The variance will not be materially detrimental to the purposes of
this code or property in the same zone or vicinity in which the property is
located;
      (4)   The variance is consistent with and promotes the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan; and
      (5)   The variance granted is the minimum variance that would alleviate
the hardship.
   (B)   A variance shall not be utilized to permit a use not allowed in the
applicable zone.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.066 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit may be revoked if development or use is not being used for
the purpose or in the manner for which the development permit was granted or if
the development or use is prohibited by law.
   (B)   This chapter shall not affect any development permitted before this
chapter is enacted or any application for a development permit pending at the
time this chapter is enacted.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.067 REZONING.
   A development permit allowing a change in use where a new zone designation
is required and where this change is determined to be quasijudicial in nature
may be granted if the following criteria are met:
   (A)   The change is consistent with and promotes the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan; and
   (B)   The change is consistent with and promotes the objectives of this code
and the Standards Document.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.068 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CHANGE.
   A development permit allowing a change in the Comprehensive Plan may be
granted if the change is consistent with and promotes the objectives of state
statute, including, but not limited to, LCDC Goals and Guidelines.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.069 SUBDIVISION AND MINOR PARTITION.
   A development permit allowing subdivision or major partition may be granted
if the following criteria are met:
   (A)   The proposed development is consistent with and promotes the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan; and
   (B)   The proposed development is consistent with and promotes the
objectives of this chapter and the Standards Document.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.070 ANNEXATION.
   A request for annexation determined to be quasi-judicial in nature may be
granted if the following criteria are met:
   (A)   The land is contiguous with the city limits and located within the
city’s urban growth boundary as designated in the Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   The annexation is consistent with and promotes the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   The annexation is consistent with and promotes the objectives of all
other provisions of this chapter and the Standards Document;
   (D)   The development of the land to be annexed is compatible with the
rational and logical extension of utilities and roads to the surrounding area;
and
   (E)   Adequate public facilities and services can reasonably be made
available to the annexed property without negatively impacting existing systems
and the city’s ability to adequately serve all areas within the existing city
limits and an agreement has been reached as to how the provision of facilities
or services will be financed.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.071 VACATION.
   A development permit allowing a vacation determined to be quasi-judicial in
nature may be granted if the following criteria are met:
   (A)   The consent of the owners of the requisite area has been obtained;
   (B)   Notice has been given;
   (C)   The public interest will not be prejudiced by the vacation; and
   (D)   The vacation is consistent with and promotes the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan, this chapter and the Standards Document.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.072 CONDITIONS IMPOSED WHEN DEVELOPMENT ALLOWED.
   When a non-residential Type II, III, or IV development is allowed,
conditions other than or in addition to those set forth in this chapter or the
Standards Document may be imposed upon the development to insure consistency
with this chapter, the Standards Document and the Comprehensive Plan. Such
conditions shall be to make the use as compatible as feasible with its
surroundings, conserve and stabilize the value of adjacent property, encourage
the most appropriate use of land, present an attractive appearance that is
consistent with adjacent properties, and is similar to existing permitted uses
in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
§ 151.085 CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following zones are hereby
established:
Zone Designation Abbreviation
Zone Designation                 Abbreviation
Commercial-Residential           C-R
General Commercial               C-1
General Industrial               M-1
Low Density Residential          R-1
Multi-Family Residential         R-2
Rural Residential                RR-2
Woodland-Open Space-Agricultural WOA
 
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.086 LOCATION OF ZONES.
   The boundaries for the zones listed in this chapter are indicated on the
Zoning Map, together with any amendments therefore which zoning map is hereby
adopted by reference, a copy of which shall be maintained in the office of the
City Administrator. Zoning designations on the zoning map shall be interpreted
to be extensions of lot lines to the center of creeks, channels, other water
bodies or rights-of-way.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.087 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R-1).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-1 Zone, the following uses are
permitted outright when located on a single lot or parcel:
      (1)   One single-family dwelling;
      (2)   One two-family dwelling or duplex; and
      (3)   Manufactured home.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted outright. In an R-1 Zone, the following uses
are permitted outright only in conjunction with any of the uses specified in
division (A) above:
      (1)   Home gardens and orchards;
      (2)   Sheds or other storage faculties for appurtenant storage;
      (3) One guest house without cooking facilities;
      (4) A home occupation, as provided in the Standards Document;
      (5) Swimming pools subject to the Standards Document;
      (6) Medical marijuana grow site, subject to state law; and
      (7) Setback standards for marijuana uses, including those under state
law:
         (a) Marijuana plants shall not exceed the height of the back fence.
Refer to §
151.097, “Maximum Structure Height”, for fence height standards;
         (b)   Base of marijuana plant be a minimum of five feet away from the
nearest property line;
         (c)   Marijuana plants shall not grow through fence; and
         (d)   Marijuana plants shall not be visible from public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conditional uses. In an R-1 Zone, the following uses are permitted if
the criteria set forth in §
151.064 have been met:
      (1)   Public and semi-public uses including churches, community
buildings, governmental uses, rest homes, nursing homes, schools, day care
centers, bed and breakfast home stays and utility structures; and
      (2)   Uses of the same general type as those permitted this section,
provided, however, that uses specifically allowed outright in another zone or
of the same general type as those specifically allowed outright in another zone
shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 433, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 151.088 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-2).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an R-2 Zone, the following uses are
permitted outright:
      (1)   One single-family dwelling;
      (2)   One two-family dwelling or duplex;
      (3)   Triplexes;
      (4)   Quadplexes;
      (5)   Multi-plexes; and
      (6)   Manufactured home.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted outright. In an R-2 Zone, the following uses
are permitted outright only in conjunction with any of the uses specified in
division (A) above:
      (1)   Home gardens and orchards;
      (2)   Sheds or other storage facilities for appurtenant storage;
      (3)   One guest house without cooking facilities;
      (4)   A home occupation as provided in the Standards Document;
      (5)   Crop cultivation;
      (6)   Sheds or other storage facilities for appurtenant storage;
      (7)   Swimming pool subject to the Standards Document;
      (8)   Medical marijuana grow site, subject to state law; and
      (9)   Setback standards for marijuana uses (refer to § 151.089(A)).
   (C)   Conditional uses. In an R-2 Zone, the following uses are permitted if
the criteria set forth in section §
151.089(A) have been met:
      (1)   Public and semi-public uses including churches, community
buildings, governmental uses, rest homes, nursing homes, schools, day care
center, bed and breakfast home stays and utility structures; and
      (2)   Uses of the same general type as those permitted in this division
and division (B) above, provided, however that uses specifically allowed
outright in another zone or of the same general type as those specifically
allowed outright in another zone shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 433, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 151.089 COMMERCIAL-RESIDENTIAL (C-R).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In a C-R Zone, the following uses are
permitted outright:
      (1)   One single-family dwelling;
      (2)   One two-family dwelling or duplex;
      (3)   Residential use of second or third floors of building of which the
ground floor function is noted in divisions (A)(4), (A)(5) and (A)(6) below;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast home stays and motels;
      (5)   Retail uses within a building including apparel and accessory
stores, bicycle stores, bookstores, cameras and photographic supplies, gift,
novelty and souvenir stores, jewelry stores, optical goods stores, radio and
television repair stores, record stores, sporting goods, stores, stationary
stores, retail bakery, drug stores and restaurants;
      (6)   Offices, including business offices, professional offices, studios
and utility offices;
      (7)   Service uses within a building, including barber shops, beauty
parlors, electrical and appliance repair services, watch, clock and jewelry
repair services and shoe repair;
      (8)   Both commercial and residential uses may be located on one lot or
parcel;
      (9)   Manufactured home; and
      (10)   Mobile food carts, subject to §§
151.165 through
151.169.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted outright. In a C-R Zone, the following uses
are permitted outright only in conjunction with any of the uses specified in
division (A) above:
      (1)   Sheds or other storage facilities for appurtenant storage;
      (2)   One guest house without cooking facilities;
      (3)   Swimming pools subject to the Standards Document;
      (4)   Medical marijuana grow site (indoor only), subject to state law;
      (5)   Homegrown recreational marijuana on properties containing a
household, subject to state law; and
      (6)   Setback standards for marijuana uses (refer to §
151.087(B)(7)).
   (C)   Conditional uses. In a C-R Zone, the following uses are permitted if
the criteria set forth in §
151.064 have been met:
      (1)   Public and semi-public uses including churches, community
buildings, governmental uses, rest homes, nursing homes, schools, day care
centers and utility structures;
      (2)   Marijuana retailer located more than 3,000 feet from another
existing marijuana retailer;
      (3)   Medical marijuana dispensary located more than 1,000 feet from
another existing medical marijuana dispensary; and
      (4)   Uses of the same general type as those permitted in this section,
provided, however that uses specifically allowed outright in another zone or of
the same general type as those specifically allowed outright in another zone
shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 433, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 434, passed 3-
10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 151.090 GENERAL COMMERCIAL (C-1).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In a C-1 Zone, the following uses are
permitted outright:
      (1)   Retail uses within a building including apparel and accessory
stores, bicycle stores, bookstores, cameras and photographic supplies,
department stores, florists, furniture and home furnishing stores, general
stores, gift, novelty and souvenir stores, antique and collectable stores,
jewelry stores, optical goods stores, radio and television repair stores,
record stores, sporting goods stores, stationary stores, variety stores,
bakeries (retail or manufacturing), drug stores, food stores, hardware stores,
restaurants, hotels and motels;
      (2)   Office uses, including banks, business offices, professional
offices, studios and utility offices;
      (3)   Service uses within a building, including barber shops, beauty
parlors, electrical and appliances repair services, self-service laundries,
laundry and dry cleaning outlets, photo-finishing, printing shops, theaters,
water, clock and jewelry repair services and shoe repair;
         (4)   Homegrown, recreational marijuana on properties containing a
household, subject to state law and setback standards for marijuana uses (refer
to §
151.087(B)(7)); and
         (5)   Mobile food carts, subject to §§
151.165 through
151.169.
   (B)   Conditional uses. In a C-1 Zone, the following uses are permitted if
the criteria set forth in§
151.064 have been met:
      (1)   Public and semi-public uses, including churches, community
buildings, governmental uses, rest homes, nursing homes, schools, day care
centers and utility structures;
      (2)   Service uses inside or outside a building, including auto repair,
auto sales, boat sales, car wash, gasoline sales, nursery, outdoor market,
plumbing and heating service, recreation facility, second hand sales and
veterinary clinic;
      (3)   Light manufacturing enclosed wholly within a building, with limited
freight delivery, and not located within 400 feet of another light
manufacturing use. The use must not be objectionable due to odor, dust, smoke,
noise vibration or appearance. Off-street parking for workers, company
vehicles, and freight deliveries must be provided, as required in the
Development Standards, Section 2. Any use must comply with all local, state and
federal regulations;
      (4)   Uses of the same general type as those permitted in this section,
provided, however, that uses specifically allowed outright in another zone or
of the same general type as those specifically allowed outright in another zone
shall not be permitted;
      (5)   One single-family dwelling in a building constructed for that
purpose, including:
         (a)   Excepting, such may be resided in by senior citizens over 60
years of age as a permitted use without need for a conditional use permit; and
         (b)   All single family dwellings allowed in this zone shall comply
with the minimum lot size and setbacks established for residential uses in a
Commercial Residential (C-R) Zone (§§ 151. 095 and 151.096);
      (6)   Residential use of second and third floors of a building in which
the ground floor function is noted in §
151.089(A)(4) through (A)6);
      (7)   Marijuana retailer located mom than 1,000 feet from another
existing marijuana retailer; and
      (8)   Medical marijuana dispensary located more than 1,000 feet from
another existing medical marijuana dispensary.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 433, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 434, passed 3-
10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 151.091 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL (M-1).
   (A)   Uses permitted outright. In an M-1 Zone, the following uses are
permitted outright:
      (1)   Building materials, contractors yard, feed or fuel yard;
      (2)   Electronics plants;
      (3)   Machine shops;
      (4)   Light manufacturing within a building;
      (5)   Outside storage and storage yards;
      (6)   Retail sales of products manufactured on the premises; and
      (7)   Mobile food carts, subject to §§
151.165 through
151.169.
   (B)   Conditional uses. In an M-1 Zone, the following uses are permitted if
the criteria set forth in §
151.064 have been met:
      (1)   Public and semi-public uses, including governmental uses, and
utility structures;
      (2)   Heavy manufacturing, manufacturing which produces noise audible at
the property line, excessively bright light, odors detectable at the property
line or entail a fire or safety hazard;
      (3)   Residence for security guards; and
      (4)   Uses of the same general type as those permitted outright in this
section, provided, however, that uses specifically allowed outright in another
zone or for the same general type as those specifically allowed outright in
another zone may not be permitted.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-
2020)
§ 151.092 ACCESSORY AND CONDITIONAL USES IN ALL ZONES.
   (A)   Accessory and conditional uses shall comply with all requirements and
standards for primary uses within that zone unless otherwise provided to the
contrary.
   (B)   Expansion of existing manufactured dwelling parks and/or mobile home
parks shall be allowed as a conditional use in all zones if the criteria set
forth both in §
151.064 and §§
151.150 through
151.152 have been met.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 385, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 151.093 WOODLAND-OPEN SPACE-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (WOA).
   (A)   Intent. This district is intended for application to areas within the
city or urban growth boundary (UGB) which are not planned at present for urban
levels of development, but which may be rezoned for and planned for urban
levels of development.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. In the WOA Zone, the following uses and
activities and their accessory buildings and uses are permitted subject to the
general provisions and exceptions set forth by this chapter:
      (1)   Forest management;
      (2)   Farm use, including marijuana producers subject setbacks (refer to
§
151.087(B));
      (3)   Fish and wildlife management;
      (4)   Fire prevention, detection and suppression facilities;
      (5)   Nursery for the growing, sale and display of trees, shrubs and
flowers;
      (6)   Water impoundments with less than 1,000 acre feet of storage
capacity, in conjunction with beneficial uses of water customarily associated
with farm or forest uses or as a source of water for domestic or municipal use,
provided the necessary state and federal permits have been issued;
      (7)   Residential facility, residential care center or residential home
where there is an existing residential use which is non-conforming solely due
to the zone in which the residential use is located;
      (8)   Home occupations; and
      (9)   Homegrown recreational marijuana on properties containing a
household, subject to state law and setback standards for marijuana uses (refer
to § 515.087(B)(7)).
   (C)   Uses permitted conditionally. In the WOA Zone, the following uses and
activities are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
151.060 through
151.072.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling customarily provided in conjunction with a
use permitted in this classification, providing residence for landowner or
immediate family member, providing that a minimum average density of five acres
per dwelling shall be maintained;
      (2)   Winery;
      (3)   Kennels;
      (4)   Golf course;
      (5)   Roadside stand;
      (6)   Bed and breakfast home or facility where there is an existing
residential use which is non-conforming solely due to the zone in which the
residential unit is located;
      (7)   Public and semi-public uses and activities essential to the
physical, social and economic welfare of the area, including, but not limited
to, fire stations, schools, granges, community halls and churches;
      (8)   Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, campgrounds, boating facilities,
lodges, camps and other such recreational facilities;
      (9)   Utility structures; and
      (10)   Other uses later deemed by the Planning Commission to be
conditional.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 433, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 151.094 RURAL RESIDENTIAL (RR-2).
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The intent of the RR Zone is to allow low density residential home
sites in areas of steep slopes or areas within the UGB which are committed
lands.
      (2)   The RR Zone is also intended to provide transition from more
intense residential development to the WOA uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted outright. In the RR Zone, the following uses and
activities and their accessory buildings and uses are permitted subject to the
general provisions and exceptions set forth by this chapter:
      (1)   Single family dwellings, including manufactured homes, manufactured
home parks and subdivisions;
      (2)   Residential facility, residential care center or residential home;
      (3)   Home occupations;
      (4)   Forest management;
      (5)   Farm use, including marijuana producers as a stand-alone and
accessory use, subject to setbacks (refer to §
151.087(B)(7));
      (6)   Fish and wildlife management;
      (7)   Fire prevention, detection and suppression facilities;
      (8)   Water impoundments with less than 1,000 acre feet of storage
capacity, in conjunction with beneficial uses of water customarily associated
with farm or forest uses or as a source of water for domestic or municipal use,
provided the necessary state and federal permits have been issued; and
      (9)   Homegrown recreational marijuana on properties containing a
household, subject to state law and setback standards for marijuana use (refer
to §
151.087(B)(7)).
   (C)   Uses permitted conditionally. In the RR Zone, the following uses and
activities are permitted, subject to the provisions of §§
151.060 through
151.072:
      (1)   Public and semi-public uses and activities essential to the
physical, social and economic welfare of the area, including but not limited to
fire stations, schools, granges, community halls and churches;
      (2)   Nursery for the growing, sale and display of trees, shrubs and
flowers;
      (3)   Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, campgrounds, boating facilities,
lodges, camps and other such recreational facilities;
      (4)   Utility structures; and
      (5)   Other uses later deemed by the Planning Commission to be
conditional.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 433, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 151.095 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot sizes and shapes for the following uses shall be as follows:
                     Minimum Lot Size  Minimum Width at
Zone Number of Units (in square feet,  Street Frontage (in Minimum Length (in
                     unless otherwise  feet)**             feet)
                     noted)
                     Minimum Lot Size   Minimum Width at
Zone Number of Units (in square feet,   Street Frontage (in Minimum Length (in
                     unless otherwise   feet)**             feet)
                     noted)
WOA  1               5 acres            60                  85
RR-2 1               87,200             60                  85
R-1  1               6,000 (corner lot  60 (corner lot 70)  85
                     7,000)
R-1  Duplex          10,000             100                 85
R-2  3               9,000              80                  100
R-2  4               11,000             80                  100
R-2  5               14,000             80                  100
R-2  6               17,000             100                 100
R-2  7               20,000             100                 100
R-2  8               22,000             100                 100
R-2  9               25,000             100                 100
R-2  10              28,000             100                 100
R-2  12              30,000             100                 100
R-2  13              33,000             100                 100
R-2  14              36,000             100                 100
R-2  15              39,000             100                 100
R-2  16              41,000             100                 100
R-2                  44,000             100                 100
C-R  Single-family   6,000 (corner lot  60 (corner lot 70)  85
     residence       7,000)
C-R  Duplex          10,000             100                 85
C-R  Commercial      6,500              65                  100
C-1  Commercial      6,5000 (corner lot 65 (corner lot 70)  100
                     7,000)
M-1  Industrial      20,000             100                 100
Notes:
*Except where the lot is located on a cul-de-sac in which case minimum width
at street frontage shall be 40-feet for all uses.
 
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.096 SETBACKS.
   (A)   The following minimum setbacks shall be maintained:
Zone Yard Main Building and Guest Required Off-Street       Accessory Building
          House (setback in feet) Parking (setback in feet) (setback in feet)
                        Main Building and Required Off-     Accessory Building
Zone Yard               Guest House       Street Parking    (setback in feet)
                        (setback in feet) (setback in feet)
WOA  Front              20                20                20
WOA  Side where no      10                10                10
     street
WOA  Side adjacent to   20                20                20
     street- corner lot
WOA  Rear               20                20                20
RR-2 Front              20                20                20
RR-2 Side where no      10                10                10
     street
RR-2 Side adjacent to   20                20                20
     street- corner lot
RR-2 Rear               20                20                20
R-1  Front              20                20                20
R-1  Side where no      5                 5                 5
     street
R-1  Side adjacent to   10                10                10
     street- corner lot
R-1  Rear               10                1                 10
R-2  Front              20                20                20
R-2  Side where no      5 (one-story)     5                 5
     street             10 (two-story
R-2  Side adjacent to   10                5                 10
     street- corner lot
R-2  Rear               10                5                 10
C-R  Same as R-2        Same as R-2       Same as R-2       Same as R-2
C-1  Front              0                 0                 0
C-1  Side               0                 0                 0
     Side adjacent to
C-1  residential zone   5                 5                 0
     or use
C-1  Rear, except as    0                 0                 0
     noted below
     Side adjacent to
C-1  residential zone   15                5                 0
     or use
M-1  Front              0                 0                 0
M-1  Side, except as    0                 0                 0
     noted below
M-1  Side adjacent to   20                5                 10
     zone or use
     Rear adjacent to
M-1  residential zone   25                5                 15
     or use
 
   (B)   Additional setbacks may be required where a permit is required prior
to development as a condition of the development.
   (C)   Additional setbacks may be required where necessary to maintain a
vision clearance and on corner lots.
   (D)   Open, uncovered porches, fireplaces, cornices and eaves and
undetachable mobile home drawbar or hitches, may project up to two feet into
the required setback, provided the setback is not less than three feet.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.097 MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   The maximum structure height for the following uses shall be as follows:
Zone Structure Maximum Height (in feet)
Zone      Structure                         Maximum Height (in feet)
WOA       All                               45, except fences, which shall be
                                            no greater than 6 in height
RR-2 RR-2 Main building                     40
RR-2      Energy apparatus on main building 5 above main building
RR-2      Accessory building                15 if less than 5 from side
                                            property line; 25 elsewhere
RR-2      Antennas, spires, and the like    75
                                            3 if less than 20 from the property
RR-2      Fences and hedges                 line, or less that 10 from street
                                            side property line of a corner lot;
                                            6 elsewhere
R-1       Main building                     30
R-1       Energy apparatus on main building 5 above main building
R-1       Accessory building                15 if less than 5 from side
                                            property line; 25 elsewhere
R-1       Antennas, spires, and the like    75
                                            3 if less than 20 from the property
R-1       Fences and hedges                 line, or less that 10 from street
                                            side property line of a corner lot;
                                            6 elsewhere
R-2       Main building                     30
R-2       Energy apparatus on main building 5 above main building
R-2       Accessory building                15 if less than 5 from side
                                            property line; 25 elsewhere
R-2       Antennas, spires, and the like    75
                                            3 if less than 20 from the property
R-2       Fences and hedges                 line, or less that 10 from street
                                            side property line of a corner lot;
                                            6 elsewhere
C-R       Main building                     30
C-R       Energy apparatus on main building 5 above main building
C-R       Accessory building                15 if less than 5 from side
                                            property line; 25 elsewhere
                                            3 if less than 20 from the property
C-R       Fences and hedges                 line, or less that 10 from street
                                            side property line of a corner lot;
                                            6 elsewhere
C-1       Main building                     50
C-1       Accessory building                25
M-1       Antennas, spires, and the like    75
 
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.098 MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE.
   The maximum lot coverage including all structures, driveways and parking
areas for the following uses shall not exceed the following percent of total
lot area:
Zone Percent of Total Lot Area
Zone            Percent of Total Lot Area
WOA             Not more than 40% of the area shall be covered by all buildings
                located thereon
RR-2            Same as WOA
R-1             70%
R-2             70%
C-R Residential 70%
C-R Commercial  95%
C-1             95%
M-1             100%
 
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.099 REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All new construction must comply with all other provisions of this chapter,
city specifications and with the standards and conditions set forth in the
Development Standards Document.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
FLOOD HAZARDS
§ 151.110 AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Authorization. The state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstruction in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas.
      (3)   Uses that are inadequately flood proofed, elevated or otherwise
protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood water;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage;
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards in other
areas; and
      (6)   Coordinating and supplementing the provisions of the State Building
Code with local land use and development ordinances.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of
this subchapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always include the letters A or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the “100-year flood.” Designation on maps
always includes the letters A or V.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its flood subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BELOW GRADE CRAWL SPACE. An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than two feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade and height.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great.  CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, post, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the adopted floodplain management regulations.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this subchapter found in §
151.122(B).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of this subchapter.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of adopted floodplain management regulations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The “actual start” means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as
clearing, grading and filing; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling unit or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the “actual start of construction” means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The combined specialty codes.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
subchapter.
   WATER DEPENDENT. A structure for commerce or industry which cannot exist in
any other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic
nature of its operations.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.112 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.113 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for Douglas County, Oregon and incorporated areas”, dated
February 17, 2010, with accompanying Flood Insurance Maps are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this subchapter. The Flood Insurance
Study is on file at the city. The best available information for flood hazard
area identification as outlined in §
151.119(B) shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM is issued which
incorporates the data utilized under §
151.119(B).
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.114 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This subchapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this subchapter and
another ordinance, state building code, easement, covenant or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.115 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, all provisions
shall be:
   (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (3)   Deemed neither to limit or repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes and rules, including the State Building Code.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.116 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This subchapter does
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or
employee thereof or the Federal Insurance Administration, for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.117 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
obtained before construction or development begins within any area of special
flood hazard established in §
151.113. The permit shall be for all structures including manufactured homes,
as set forth in §
151.111 and for all development including fill and other activities, also as
set forth in the §
151.111.
   (B)   Application for development permit. Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Planning Commission and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of flood proofing in a
structure;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the flood proofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the flood
proofing criteria in §§
151.121 and 155.122 (Nonresidential Construction); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.118 DESIGNATION OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planning Commission is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
subchapter by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance
with its provisions.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.119 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Local Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements and conditions of this subchapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of §
151.123(A).
   (B)   Use of other base flood data (in A and V Zones). When base flood
elevation data has not been provided (A and V Zones) in accordance with §
151.113, the local administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, in order to administer §§
151.122, and
151.123.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
      (1)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study, FIRM or required as in division (B) above, obtain and record
the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basements and below-grade crawlspaces) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement;
      (2)   For all new or substantially improved flood proofed structures
where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood Insurance Study,
FIRM or as required in division (B) above:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         (b)   Maintain the flood proofing certifications required in §
151.117(B)(3).
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Land Conservation
and Development and other appropriate state and federal agencies, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration; and
      (2)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. The Planning Commission shall make
interpretations where needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the
areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.120(A).
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.120 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Planning Commission, as established by ordinance, shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirement of this
subchapter.
      (2)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
Planning Commission in the enforcement or administration of this subchapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the City Council, as provided in the
ordinance.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the City Council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this subchapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (5)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4) above and the
purposes of this subchapter, the Planning Commission may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this subchapter.
   (6)   The Planning Commission shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon
request.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   (a)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing items(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(k) above have been fully
considered.
         (b)   As the lot size increases, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Statewide Inventory of Historic Properties, without regard to the
procedures set forth in this section.
      (3)   Variance shall not be issued within as designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in division (A)(4) above, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (6)   (a)   Variances as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance
Program are based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a
physical piece or property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain
to the structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances.
         (b)   They primarily address small lots in densely populated
residential neighborhoods. As such, variances from the flood elevations should
be quite rare.
      (7)   Variance may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of flood proofing than watertight or
dry-flood proofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low
damage potential, complies with all other variance criteria except division (B)
(1) above and otherwise complies with §
151.121(A) and (B).
      (8)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.121 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors (For
Additional techniques, reference FEMA’s “Manufacture Home Installation in Flood
Hazard Areas”).
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      (4)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or 5 acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the Flood Insurance Study, FIRM or from another authoritative
source §
151.119(B)(4), applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure
that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding and the like, where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade in these
zones may result in higher insurance rates.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.122 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
      (A)   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation
data has been provided (Zones A1-30 and AE) as set forth in §§
151.113 or
151.119, the following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a
minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be either certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at or above
the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be flood proofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
151.119(C)(2);
         (d)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not flood proofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
(E)(2) below; and
         (e)   Applicants flood proofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the flood proofed level.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on
sites shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the
longitudinal chassis frame beam shall be at or above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   The home shall be securely anchored to an adequately designed
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (c)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above the base flood elevation.
      (d)   Crossover ducts are allowed below BFE, but shall be constructed to
prevent floodwaters from entering or accumulating within system components.
This may require an engineers certification.
   (4)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
         (c)   Meet the requirements of (A)(3) above and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for manufactured homes.
   (B)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet or to the height of the 500-year flood,
whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility should also be
protected to the height utilized above. Flood proofing and sealing measures
must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or
released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the
base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the
extent.
   (C)   Below-grade crawl spaces. Below-grade crawlspaces are allowed subject
to the following standards as found in FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01,
“Crawlspace Construction for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas”:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effect of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required openings stated in division (C)(2) below. Because of hydrodynamic
loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities
greater than five feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified
design professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer.
Other types of foundations are recommended for these areas;
      (2)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation
(BFE) and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by
allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood
vent opening can be no more than one foot above the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
      (3)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation or other materials that extend below the BFE. The recommended
construction practice is to elevate the bottom of joists and all insulation
above BFE;
      (4)   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
system components during flood conditions. Ductwork, in particular, must either
be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters;
      (5)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade;
      (6)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall
must not exceed four feet at any point. The height limitation is the maximum
allowable unsupported wall height according to the engineering analyses and
building code requirements for flood hazard areas;
      (7)   (a)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace.
         (b)   The enclosed area should be drained within a reasonable time
after a flood event. The type of drainage system will vary because of the site
gradient and other drainage characteristics, such a soil types.
         (a)   Possible options include natural drainage through porous, well-
drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles or
gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or mechanical means; and
      (8)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
per second for any crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five feet per
second, other foundation types should be used. For more detailed information
refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
§ 151.123 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.113 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, prohibit encroachments,
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other
development unless certification by a registered professional civic engineer is
provided demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that encroachments shall not
result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Projects for stream habitat restoration may be permitted in the
floodway provided:
      (1)   The project qualifies for a Department of the Army, Portland
District Regional General Permit for Stream Habitat Restoration (NWP-2007-
1023); and
      (2)   A qualified professional (a Registered Professional Engineer; or
staff of NRCS; the county; or fisheries, natural resources or water resources
agencies) has provided a feasibility analysis and certification that the
project was designed to keep any rise in 100-year flood levels as close to zero
as practically possible given the goals of the project; and
      (3)   No structures would be impacted by a potential rise in flood
elevation; and
      (4)   An agreement to monitor the project, correct problems and ensure
that flood carrying capacity remains unchanged is included as part of the local
approval.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 151.135 CREATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Planning Commission of the city.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consist of three members appointed by
the City Council for terms of three years, said terms to be staggered in such a
manner that at least one position shall be appointed in each year of three
consecutive years.
   (C)   No member shall be an employee or officer of the city, but the City
Administrator shall serve as an ex officio non-voting member.
   (D)   All members shall be residents of the city.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson and such other
officers as it deems necessary.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.136 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.137 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall meet at least once each month at a
regular time and place fixed by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the chairperson or by
three members provided that notice of such meetings shall be given as provided
in Section 2.105 of the city’s Administrative Code.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.138 EMPLOYMENT OF STAFF.
   The city’s Planning Commission, upon the approval of the City Council, shall
have power and authority to employ consulting advisors on municipal problems, a
secretary and such clerks as may be necessary, and to pay for their services
and for such other expenses as such Planning Commission may lawfully incur,
including the necessary disbursements incurred by its members in the
performance of their duties as members of said Planning Commission, out of such
funds as are therefore placed at the disposal of the Planning Commission by the
City Council.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 151.139 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the city’s Planning Commission, and they shall have
the power, except as other wise provided by law, to recommend and make
suggestions to the City Council as to all other public authorities concerning
the development and use of land in and around the city and to take all action
necessary or proper to carry out the provisions of this chapter and the
responsibilities specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997)
MANUFACTURED DWELLING AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 151.150 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all applications to expand an existing
manufactured dwelling park or mobile home park or to establish a new
manufactured dwelling park or mobile home park.
   (B)   The applicant must submit an application for a preliminary site plan
review to the City Administrator in the form prescribed by the city. The
application must be accompanied by a site plan showing the general layout of
the entire park and drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to 50 feet. The
drawing shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the property owner, applicant and person who prepared the
plan;
      (2)   Name of the park and address;
      (3)   Scale and north point of the plan;
      (4)   Vicinity map showing relationship of the park to adjacent
properties;
      (5)   Boundaries and dimensions of the park;
      (6)   Location and dimension of each home site; designated by number,
letter or name;
      (7)   Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed structure;
      (8)   Location and width of park streets;
      (9)   Location and width of walkways;
      (10)   Location of each lighting fixture for lighting the park;
      (11)   Location of recreational areas and building, and area or
recreational space;
      (12)   Location and type of landscaping plantings, fence, wall or
combination of any of these, or other screening materials;
      (13)   Location of point where park water system connects with public
system;
      (14)   Location of available fire and irrigation hydrants;
      (15)   Location of public telephone service for the park; and
      (16)   Enlarged plot plan of a typical home site, showing location of the
pad, patio, storage space, parking, sidewalk, utility connections and
landscaping.
(Ord. 385, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 151.151 FINAL SITE PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENT.
   At the time of application for final approval to construct a new park, or
expand an existing park, the applicant shall submit copies of the following
required detailed plans to the appropriate reviewing departments and agencies
as required by law or ordinance:
   (A)   New structures;
   (B)   Water supply and sewage disposal systems;
   (C)   Electrical systems;
   (D)   Road, sidewalk and patio construction;
   (E)   Drainage system; and
   (F)   Recreational area improvements.
(Ord. 385, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 151.152 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PARK DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Access. A park shall not be established or expanded on any site that
does not have frontage on or and access to a publicly owned and maintained
street which has a minimum right-of-way width of sixty feet.
   (B)   Park street. A park street shall connect each home site to a public
street or road. The park street shall be a minimum of 30 feet in width, with a
surface width of at least 20 feet if no parking is allowed, and 30 feet if
parking is allowed on one side only.
   (C)   Walkways. Walkways of not less than three feet in width shall be
provided from each home site to any service building or recreational area.
   (D)   Paving. Parks streets and walkways shall be paved with a crushed rock
base and asphalt or concrete surfacing.
   (E)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Two parking spaces shall be provided for each home site, either on
the site or within 200 feet thereof in the park, which shall be not less than
nine by 18 feet in size and paved with asphalt macadam or concrete surfacing.
      (2)   Guest parking shall also be provided in every park, based on a
ratio of one parking space for each four home sites. Such parking shall be
paved with asphalt macadam or concrete surfacing, and shall be clearly defined
and identified.
   (F)   Signs. Signs may be installed as follows:
      (1)   One sign not to exceed 18 square feet in area to designate the name
of the park. The sign may be indirectly lighted, but shall have no flashing
lights or moving parts.
      (2)   Incidental signs for the information and convenience of tenants and
the public, relative to parking, traffic movement, office, lavatories and the
like, are allowed, provided such signs do not exceed three square feet in size.
      (3)   No advertising signs shall be permitted.
   (G)   Fencing and landscaping.
      (1)   Every park shall provide a sight-obscuring fence, wall, evergreen
or other suitable screening/planting along all boundaries of the park site
abutting public roads or property lines that are common to other owners or
property, except for points of ingress and egress.
      (2)   Wall or fences shall be six feet in height. Evergreen planting
shall not be less than five feet in height, and shall be maintained in a
healthy, living condition for the life of the park.
      (3)   Suitable landscaping shall be provided within the front and side
yard setback areas, and all open areas in the park not otherwise used.
   (H)   Area.
      (1)   Size of park site. No park shall be created on a lot or parcel of
land of less than the minimum lot size of the zone.
      (2)   Home sites. The average area of all home sites within a park shall
not be less than 2,750 square feet per site, and in no case shall any one home
site be less than 2,500 square feet. In the R-1, R2 and RR-3 Zone home sites
shall be at or above the density of the underlying zone.
      (3)   Setbacks. No home or access thereto shall be located any closer
than 25 feet from a park property line abutting on a public street or road,
five feet from all other park property lines and ten feet from any such areas
as a park street, a common parking area or a common walkway.
 
      (4)   Overnight spaces. Not more than 5% of the total park area may be
used to accommodate persons wishing to park mobile homes or recreational
vehicles overnight.
   (I)   Floodplain or floodway. All mobile home and manufactured dwelling
parks must comply with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the
National Flood Insurance Program requirements.
   (J)   Other site requirements.
      (1)   Recreational area. An average of 200 square feet of recreational
area shall be provided for each home site. This area may be in one or more
locations in the park, and shall be suitably improved and maintained for
recreational purposes.
      (2)   Pad improvements. Home pads or stands shall be paved with asphaltic
or concrete surfacing, or with crushed rock.
      (3)   Accessories. Accessory structures located on a home site shall be
limited to the normal accessories, such as an awning, cabana, ramada, patio,
carport, garage or storage building. No other structural additions shall be
built onto or become part of any home, and no home shall support any building
in any manner.
      (4)   State requirements. Rules and regulations governing mobile home and
manufactured home facilities as contained in O.R.S. Chapter 446 and the
implementing regulations, shall be applicable in the development and operation
of a park, provided that the provisions of this subchapter shall prevail where
said provisions are more stringent than those imposed by state law, rules or
regulations.
(Ord. 385, passed 9-10-2001)
MOBILE FOOD CART STANDARDS
§ 151.165 APPROVALS.
   (A)   The city allows mobile food carts pursuant to Type 1 approval where
authorized by this chapter and subject to the standards set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Mobile food cart operators must obtain and keep current all
required permits.
      (2)   Mobile food cart operators must comply with applicable Oregon
Health Authority (OHA) mobile food unit license requirements.
      (3)   Food cart permits are valid for 12 months. When a food cart exceeds
the maximum specified time frame for the permit, the cart must be either
removed from the site, or renew the temporary use permit through a Type I
process.
(Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.166 LOCATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Food carts are allowed on private property in General Commercial (C-
1), General Industrial (M-1) and Commercial-Residential (C-R), subject to
property owner approval.
   (B)   Food carts may conduct sales only within the specified stationary
location set forth in the placement permit, during the hours the cart is in
operation.
   (C)   Food carts may not block motor vehicle access or pedestrian walkways.
   (D)   Food carts may not locate directly in front of store fronts or
restaurants.
   (E)   Food carts may not occupy parking spaces required by other uses at the
location.
   (F)   The placement of a mobile food cart shall maintain a 20-foot setback
from rights-of-way.
(Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.167 UTILITY STANDARDS.
   Food carts must be self-contained or be connected to individual city
services (including electric, waste, wastewater and potable water).
(Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.168 LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Food carts shall have lighting to ensure visibility of premises and
safety for customers and employees.
   (B)   Areas to be occupied by customers and employees shall be illuminated
when carts operate during hours of darkness.
   (C)   Lighting fixtures shall be oriented or shielded to prevent glare on
abutting properties
(Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.169 OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Mobile food cart permits are valid for 12 months. When a food cart
exceeds the maximum specified time frame for the permit, the cart must be
either removed from the site, or the permit must be renewed through a Type 1
process.
   (B)   Pedestrian walk-up traffic only is allowed. No drive-through service
allowed.
   (C)   Mobile food carts must be kept in good repair and maintained in a safe
and clean condition.
(Ord. 434, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 435, passed 5-11-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to penalties provided by state law, a person who
violates or fails to comply with a provision of the ordinance shall, upon
conviction, be punished by imprisonment for not more than 100 days or by fine
of not more than $500 or both. A violation of this chapter shall be considered
a separate offense for each day the violation continues.
      (2)   In case a building or other structure is or is proposed to be
located, constructed, maintained, required, altered or used, or land is or is
proposed to be used, in violation of this chapter, the building or land thus in
violation shall constitute a nuisance and the city may, as an alternative to
other remedies that are legally available for enforcing this chapter, institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate proceedings to prevent,
enjoin temporarily or permanently, abate or remove the unlawful location,
construction, maintenance, repair, alteration or use.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of §§
151.110 through
151.123 and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of §§
151.110 through
151.123 by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates §§
151.110 through
151.123 or fails to comply with any of its requirement shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $ 500 for each violation, and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 372, passed 12-8-1997; Ord. 414, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 421, passed 3-10-
2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
222      4-12-  Annexation of a tract of land beginning at the NE corner of
         1966   East Moreland Addition to the city.
286      12-9-  Annexation of a tract of land beginning at the Southeast corner
         1980   of Lot 8, Block 3 of Randall’s Addition to East Drain.
         3-12-  Annexation of the following tract of land: Township 22 South,
431      2018   Range 05, Section 17AA, Tax Lot 100 (also identified as 504
                East B Avenue).
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the issuance of $35,000 of negotiable bonds of
144      11-1-1947   the city for the purpose of constructing a new water
                     reservoir and making repairs.
                     Authorizing the issuance of $350,000 of bonds for the
271      11-27-1979  purpose of construction of a water storage and
                     distribution system.
283      12-15-1980  Authorizing the issuance of $350,000 in Oregon Revenue
                     Bonds to Farmers Home Administration.
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
152      9-7-1948    Mutual release agreement with R.A. Beebe and Christina
                     Beebe.
281      6-24-1980   Contract between the City of Drain and Douglas County.
297      6-14-1982   Lease agreement of property to the Drain Rural Fire
                     District.
                     Authorizing a loan from the Water Fund by entering into a
377      4-12-1999   loan contract with the State Economic Development
                     Department.
                     Providing for an Intergovernmenta l Agreement to establish
379      12-13-1999  a regional fiber consortium for the ownership and
                     operation of a fiber optic system.
                     Providing for an Intergovernmenta l Agreement to establish
406      9-10-2007   a regional fiber consortium for the ownership and
                     operation of a fiber optic system; repealing Ord. 379.
419      1-9-2012    Providing for an Intergovernmenta l Agreement creating the
                     State Municipal Electric Utilities (OMEU) Association.
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
336      5-14-1990   Granting to Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company a
                     franchise for a term of ten years.
351      8-8-1994    Granting to Falcon Cable Systems Company a franchise for a
                     term of 15 years.
390      2-10-2003   Granting a telecommunications franchise to Centurytel of
                     Oregon, Inc. for a term of five years.
413      10-12-2009  Granting a telecommunications franchise to Douglas
                     Services, Inc. for a term of three years.
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
30       12-20-1910  Vacating Blocks 12, 13, 24 and so forth.
                     Vacating part of the alley running through Block 33 and
128      4-3-1945    part of the alley running through Block 34 and part of the
                     road easement running through Blocks 33 and 34.
161      7-5-1949    Vacating a portion of South Drain, including all of Lots
                     1, 2, 3 and so forth
230      4-3-1970    Vacating a portion of C Street within the city.
252      6-22-1978   Vacating a portion of Date Street, a portion of an alley
                     and a portion of a 40-foot wide street.
258      2-13-1979   Vacating a portion of C Street lying between Blocks 20 and
                     21.
276      4-8-1980    Vacating a portion of an alley lying between Lots 1 and 8,
                     in Block 22, South Drain Addition.
                     Vacating a certain alley-way 20 feet in width lying
319      7-14-1986   between Lots 4 and 5, Lots 3 and 6, Lots 2 and 7, Lots 1
                     and 8, all in Block 13.
                     Vacating a portion of C Avenue from the intersection of B
375      3-8-1999    Avenue to Fourth Street, lying between Blocks 20 and 21 of
                     the city plat.
382      8-14-2000   Vacating the paved portion of West C Avenue.
                     Vacating a portion of Beech Street north of Payton Avenue
387      8-12-2002   at the juncture of the north end of Beech Street and
                     Payton Avenue.
400      2-13-2006   Vacating a portion of Date Street and portion of two
                     alleys that fall within Duco-Lam property lines.
                     Vacating a portion of Date Street lying between Block 32
401      3-13-2006   and 33 and an alley lying in the middle of Block 32, Plat
                     of South Drain.
                     Vacating a 20-foot by 118-foot portion of Gardner Avenue
404      8-13-2007   east of Cedar Street that runs between Tax Lot 6400 and
                     6500 to Elk Creek.
                    
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
389  2-10-  Rezoning a 10.88 acre parcel of land identified as Tax Lot 700 and Tax Lot 705
     2003   in T22 R5W S16 from Farm Forest to RR-2 Rural Residential.
392  11-10- Rezoning 128 West E Street identified as Tax Lot 2600, Map 22-05-08DC from C-
     2003   1 General Commercial to R-1 Low Density Residential.
394  6-14-  Rezoning 231 West “C” Street identified as Tax Lot 3600, Map 22-05-17AB from C-
     2004   1 General Commercial to C-R Commercial-Residenti al.
403  5-14-  Rezoning 196 Umpqua Highway 99 identified as Tax Lot 300, Map 22-05-08DC from
     2007   RR-2 Rural Residential to R-1 Low Density Residential.
408  4-14-  Rezoning 105 A Street identified as Tax Lot 7500, Map 22-05-17AB from C-
     2008   1 General Commercial to C-R Commercial-Residenti al.
420  7-8-   Rezoning 101 North First Street identified as Tax Lot 5100, Map 22-05W-17AB from
     2013   C-1 General Commercial to C-R Commercial-Residenti al.
429  5-8-   Rezoning 135 West D Avenue identified as Tax Lot 01200, Map 22-05-17AB from C-
     2017   1 General Commercial to C-R Commercial-Residenti al.
430  12-11- Rezoning 908, 914, 916 and 918 Cedar Street identified as Tax Lot 1400, Mapp 22-
     2017   05W-17DB from R-1 Low Density Residential to R-2 Residential Multiple- Family.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Cites Code Section
O.R.S. Cites    Code Section
30.285          32.023
30.287          32.023
92.103 92.160   33.57
97.120          91.05
133.220 133.225 132.12
161.005 et seq. 130.01
163.005(2)      112.09
163.095 163.149 112.09
163.160(1)(b)   112.09
163.165(1)(b)   112.09
163.165(1)(c)   112.09
163.175(a)      112.09
163.175(b)      112.09
163.175(c)      112.09
163.185(a)      112.09
163.185(d)      112.09
163.195         112.09
163.305         130.55
163.375 163.427 112.09
166.220         112.09
166.260         134.01
166.291         134.01
167.007         112.09
Chapter 174     32.060
174.101         132.40
190.010         32.046
190.110         32.046
190.240         111.004
192.311 192.431 111.124;
                112.05
192.630         30.06
197.005 et seq. 151.002
197.610(1)      151.028
197.660         112.04
209.250         151.063
215.203(3)      151.002
                32.068;
223             32.069;
                33.10;
                33.36
223.205 223.295 33.10
223.208         32.069
223.210         33.36
223.215         33.36
223.230         33.36
223.235         33.36
223.265         33.36
223.285         33.36
223.297 223.314 32.073
223.389         33.26
223.610         50.05
223.805 223.845 33.53
                32.015 –
Chapter 279A    32.017;
                32.024;
                32.025
279A.180        32.17
                32.15 –
Chapter 279B    32.017;
                32.024;
                32.025
279B.080        32.17
                32.15  –
Chapter 279C    32.017;
                32.024;
                32.025
279C            32.020
279C.335(5)     32.017
279C.340        32.022
279C.360        32.019
279C.375        32.021
279C.380        32.021
283.140         111.004
287A.050        33.36
305.620         32.046
310.060         33.36
312             151.002
403.105(11)     111.004
419C            131.02
419C.080        131.02
419C.085        131.02
419C.088        131.02
455.010 455.450 50.09
Chapter 446     151.152
471.027         130.35
471.230         130.35
471.480         130.37
475.752         112.09
475B.810        151.002
475C.009(25)    32.040
475C.009(29)    32.040
480.111 480.165 133.03
480.120         134.03
480.130         134.03
480.140(1)      134.03
480.150         134.03
801.360         132.40
                70.01;
Chapter 801-826 70.99;
                71.02
                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code       2024 Code
30.01            30.01
30.02            30.02
30.03            30.03
30.04            30.04
30.05            30.05
30.06            30.06
30.07            30.07
30.08            30.08
30.09            30.09
30.10            30.10
30.11            30.11
30.12            30.12
30.13            30.13
30.14            30.14
30.15            30.15
30.16            30.16
30.17            30.17
30.18            30.18
30.19            30.19
30.20            30.20
31.15            31.01
31.16            31.02
31.17            31.03
31.18            31.04
31.19            31.05
31.25            31.20
31.26            31.21
31.27            31.22
31.28            31.23
31.29            31.24
31.30            31.25
31.31            31.26
31.32            31.27
31.33            31.28
31.34            31.29
32.01            32.001
32.02            32.002
32.03            32.003
32.15            32.015
32.16            32.016
32.17            32.017
32.18            32.018
32.19            32.019
32.20            32.020
32.21            32.021
32.22            32.022
32.23            32.023
32.24            32.024
32.25            32.025
32.30            32.040
32.31            32.041
32.32            32.042
32.33            32.043
32.34            32.044
32.35            32.045
32.36            32.046
32.99            32.999
33.01            33.01
33.02            33.02
33.03            33.03
33.04            33.04
33.05            33.05
33.06            33.06
33.07            33.07
33.08            33.08
33.09            33.09
33.10            33.10
33.11            33.11
33.20            33.25
33.21            33.26
33.22            33.27
33.23            33.28
33.24            33.29
33.25            33.30
33.26            33.31
33.27            33.32
33.28            33.33
33.29            33.34
33.30            33.35
33.31            33.36
33.32            33.37
33.33            33.38
33.34            33.39
33.35            33.40
33.36            33.41
33.37            33.42
33.38            33.43
33.39            33.44
33.40            33.45
33.41            33.46
33.42            33.47
33.43            33.48
33.44            33.49
33.45            33.50
33.46            33.51
33.47            33.52
33.48            33.53
33.49            33.54
33.50            33.55
33.51            33.56
33.52            33.57
34.01            34.01
34.02            34.02
34.03            34.03
34.04            34.04
34.05            34.05
34.06            34.06
34.07            34.07
34.08            34.08
34.09            34.09
34.10            34.10
34.11            34.11
34.12            34.12
34.13            34.13
34.14            34.14
34.15            34.15
34.16            34.16
34.17            34.17
34.99            34.99
35.01            35.01
35.02            35.02
35.03            35.03
35.04            35.04
35.05            35.05
35.06            35.06
35.07            35.07
35.08            35.08
35.09            35.09
35.10            35.10
50.01            50.01
50.02            50.02
50.03            50.03
50.04            50.04
50.05            50.05
50.06            50.06
50.07            50.07
50.08            50.08
50.09            50.09
50.10            50.10
50.20            50.25
50.21            50.26
50.99            50.99
51.01            51.01
51.02            51.02
51.03            51.03
51.04            51.04
51.05            51.05
51.06            51.06
51.07            51.07
51.08            51.08
51.09            51.09
51.10            51.10
51.11            51.11
51.12            51.12
51.13            51.13
51.14            51.14
51.15            51.15
51.16            51.16
51.17            51.17
51.18            51.18
51.19            51.19
51.20            51.20
51.21            51.21
51.22            51.22
51.23            51.23
52.01            52.01
52.02            52.02
52.03            52.03
52.04            52.04
52.05            52.05
52.06            52.06
52.07            52.07
52.08            52.08
52.20            52.20
52.21            52.21
52.22            52.22
52.23            52.23
52.24            52.24
52.25            52.25
52.26            52.26
53.20            53.01
53.21            53.02
53.22            53.03
53.23            53.04
53.24            53.05
53.25            53.06
53.26            53.07
53.27            53.08
53.28            53.09
53.29            53.10
53.40            53.25
53.41            53.26
53.42            53.27
53.43            53.28
53.44            53.29
53.45            53.30
53.50            53.45
53.51            53.46
53.52            53.47
53.53            53.48
53.54            53.49
53.55            53.50
53.56            53.51
53.57            53.52
53.58            53.53
53.59            53.54
53.60            53.55
53.61            53.56
53.62            53.57
53.63            53.58
53.64            53.59
53.65            53.60
53.66            53.61
53.67            53.62
53.68            53.63
53.69            53.64
53.70            53.65
53.71            53.66
53.72            53.67
53.73            53.68
53.74            53.69
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.15            70.15
70.16            70.16
70.17            70.17
70.18            70.18
70.19            70.19
70.20            70.20
70.21            70.21
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.01
71.02            71.02
71.03            71.03
71.04            71.04
71.05            71.05
71.06            71.06
71.07            71.07
71.08            71.08
71.09            71.09
71.10            71.10
71.11            71.11
71.25            71.25
71.26            71.26
71.27            71.27
71.28            71.28
71.29            71.29
71.30            71.30
71.31            71.31
71.32            71.32
71.33            71.33
71.34            71.34
71.35            71.35
71.36            71.36
71.37            71.37
71.50            71.50
71.51            71.51
71.52            71.52
71.53            71.53
71.54            71.54
71.55            71.55
72.01            72.01
72.02            72.02
72.03            72.03
72.04            72.04
72.05            72.05
72.06            72.06
72.07            72.07
72.08            72.08
72.09            72.09
72.10            72.10
72.11            72.11
72.20            72.25
72.21            72.26
72.22            72.27
72.23            72.28
73.01            73.01
73.02            73.02
73.03            73.03
73.04            73.04
Ch. 74, Sched. I Ch. 74, Sched. I
90.01            90.01
90.02            90.02
90.03            90.03
90.15            90.20
90.16            90.21
90.18            90.23
90.19            90.24
90.20            90.25
90.21            90.26
90.22            90.27
90.23            90.28
90.24            90.29
90.25            90.30
90.26            90.31
90.27            90.32
90.28            90.33
90.99            90.99
91.01            91.01
91.02            91.02
91.03            91.03
91.04            91.04
91.05            91.05
91.06            91.06
91.07            91.07
91.08            91.08
91.09            91.09
92.99            92.99
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.15            93.15
93.16            93.16
93.17            93.17
93.30            93.30
93.31            93.31
93.32            93.32
93.33            93.33
93.34            93.34
93.35            93.35
93.36            93.36
93.99            93.99
110.01           110.01
110.02           110.02
110.03           110.03
110.04           110.04
110.05           110.05
110.06           110.06
110.07           110.07
110.08           110.08
110.99           110.99
111.01           111.001
111.02           111.002
111.03           111.003
111.05           111.004
111.10           111.015
111.11           111.016
111.12           111.017
111.13           111.018
111.20           111.030
111.21           111.031
111.22           111.032
111.23           111.033
111.24           111.034
111.25           111.035
111.26           111.036
111.27           111.037
111.28           111.038
111.29           111.039
111.40           111.050
111.41           111.051
111.42           111.052
111.50           111.065
111.51           111.066
111.52           111.067
111.53           111.068
111.54           111.069
111.55           111.070
111.56           111.071
111.57           111.072
111.58           111.073
111.59           111.074
111.60           111.075
111.61           111.076
111.62           111.077
111.63           111.078
111.64           111.079
111.65           111.080
111.70           111.095
111.71           111.096
111.72           111.097
111.73           111.098
111.74           111.099
111.75           111.100
111.76           111.101
111.77           111.102
111.78           111.103
111.80           111.115
111.81           111.116
111.82           111.117
111.83           111.118
111.84           111.119
111.85           111.120
111.86           111.121
111.87           111.122
111.88           111.123
111.89           111.124
111.99           111.999
130.01           130.01
130.02           130.02
130.03           130.03
130.04           130.04
130.05           130.05
130.06           130.06
130.15           130.20
130.16           130.21
130.17           130.22
130.18           130.23
130.30           130.35
130.31           130.36
130.32           130.37
130.33           130.38
130.34           130.39
130.35           130.40
130.36           130.41
130.37           130.42
130.50           130.55
130.51           130.56
130.99           130.99;
                 132.99
131.01           131.01
131.02           131.02
131.03           131.03
131.04           131.04
131.05           131.05
131.06           131.06
131.07           131.07
131.08           131.08
131.09           131.09
131.10           131.10
131.11           131.11
131.12           131.12
131.13           131.13
132.01           132.01
132.02           132.02
132.03           132.03
132.04           132.04
132.05           132.05
132.06           132.06
132.07           132.07
132.08           132.08
132.09           132.09
132.10           132.10
132.11           132.11
132.12           132.12
132.25           132.25
132.26           132.26
132.27           132.27
133.01           133.01
133.02           133.02
133.03           133.03
133.04           133.04
133.05           133.05
133.06           133.06
134.01           134.01
134.02           134.02
134.03           134.03
150.01           150.01
150.15           150.15
150.16           150.16
150.17           150.17
150.18           150.18
150.99           150.99
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R2324-09 3-11-2023   30.14
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
30       12-20-1910  TSO Table V
128      4-3-1945    TSO Table V
144      11-1-1947   TSO Table II
152      9-7-1948    TSO Table III
161      7-5-1949    TSO Table V
163      10-7-1952   34.17
                     150.15 –
216      2-9-1960    150.18;
                     150.99
222      4-12-1966   TSO Table I
230      4-3-1970    TSO Table V
252      6-22-1978   TSO Table V
255      2-13-1979   32.001 –
                     32.003
258      2-13-1979   TSO Table V
                     90.01 –
                     90.03;
                     90.20 –
                     90.33;
                     90.99;
                     130.01 –
                     130.06;
                     130.20 –
                     130.23;
                     130.35 
                     130.42;
                     130.55;
259      5-8-1979    130.56;
                     130.99;
                     131.01 –
                     131.13;
                     132.01 –
                     132.12;
                     132.25 –
                     132.27;
                     132.99;
                     133.01 –
                     133.06;
                     134.01 –
                     134.03
                     50.01 –
                     50.09;
                     50.25;
                     50.26;
                     50.99;
                     51.01 –
                     51.21;
                     52.01 –
261      5-8-1979    52.07;
                     52.20 
                     52.26;
                     53.01 –
                     53.10;
                     53.25 –
                     53.30;
                     53.48;
                     53.49;
                     53.55
                     34.01 –
267      8-14-1979   34.16;
                     34.99
271      11-27-1979  TSO Table II
276      4-8-1980    TSO Table V
281      6-24-1980   TSO Table III
286      12-9-1980   TSO Table I
283      12-15-1980  TSO Table II
                     93.01;
                     93.02;
                     93.15 
290      8-10-1981   93.17;
                     93.30 –
                     93.36;
                     93.99
                     110.01 –
295      6-14-1982   110.08;
                     110.99
297      6-14-1982   TSO Table III
319      7-14-1986   TSO Table V
324      5-11-1987   32.015 –
                     32.025
331      7-11-1988   93.02
336      5-14-1990   TSO Table IV
                     50.01;
                     50.05;
343      7-8-1991    50.09;
                     51.01;
                     52.24;
                     53.03
344      7-8-1991    93.32;
                     93.34
350      6-13-1994   110.04;
                     110.06
351      8-8-1994    TSO Table IV
352      8-8-1994    31.01 –
                     31.05
353      10-9-1995   110.01 –
                     110.03
364      4-14-1997   33.01 –
                     33.11
365      4-14-1997   33.25 –
                     33.57
367      5-12-1997   91.01 –
                     91.09
371      12-8-1997   150.01
                     151.001 –
                     151.013;
                     151.025 –
                     151.045;
                     151.060 –
                     151.072;
                     151.085 –
372      12-8-1997   151.099;
                     151.110 –
                     151.123;
                     151.135 –
                     151.139;
                     151.150 –
                     151.152;
                     151.999
375      3-8-1999    TSO Table V
376      3-8-1999    91.03
377      4-12-1999   TSO Table III
379      12-13-1999  TSO Table III
                     111.001 –
                     111.004;
                     111.015 –
                     111.018;
                     111.030 –
                     111.039;
380      1-10-2000   111.050 –
                     111.052;
                     111.065 –
                     111.080;
                     111.095 
                     111.103;
                     111.115 –
                     111.124
382      8-14-2000   TSO Table V
                     111.001 –
                     111.004;
                     111.015 –
                     111.018;
                     111.030 –
                     111.039;
384      2-12-2001   111.050 –
                     111.052;
                     111.065 –
                     111.080;
                     111.095 –
                     111.103;
                     111.115 –
                     111.124
                     151.002;
385      9-10-2001   151.092;
                     151.150 –
                     151.152
387      8-12-2002   TSO Table V
389      2-10-2003   TSO Table VI
390      2-10-2003   TSO Table IV
391      5-12-2003   31.20 –
                     31.29
392      11-10-2003  TSO Table VI
393      12-8-2003   50.06
394      6-14-2004   TSO Table VI
                     51.22;
395      10-11-2004  51.23;
                     53.26;
                     53.27
396      2-14-2005   50.02
397      2-14-2005   32.015 –
                     32.025
398      4-11-2005   35.01 –
                     35.10
400      2-13-2006   TSO Table V
401      3-13-2006   TSO Table V
                     70.01 –
                     70.03;
                     70.15 –
                     70.21;
                     70.99;
                     71.01 –
                     71.11;
                     71.25 –
402      3-12-2007   71.37;
                     71.50 –
                     71.55;
                     72.01 –
                     72.11;
                     72.25 
                     72.28;
                     73.01 –
                     73.04;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I
403      5-14-2007   TSO Table VI
404      8-13-2007   TSO Table V
405      8-13-2007   30.01 –
                     30.20
406      9-10-2007   TSO Table III
407      11-13-2007  52.08
408      4-14-2008   TSO Table VI
                     32.060 –
409      5-9-2011    32.074;
                     32.999
412      8-10-2009   53.45 –
                     53.69
413      10-12-2009  TSO Table IV
                     151.110 –
414      1-11-2010   151.123;
                     151.99
                     130.99;
415      1-11-2010   131.01;
                     131.02;
                     132.99
                     130.39;
416      3-8-2010    130.99;
                     132.99
417      7-11-2011   91.01 –
                     91.09
                     50.05;
418      11-14-2011  51.01;
                     52.24;
                     53.03
419      1-9-2012    TSO Table III
420      7-8-2013    TSO Table VI
                     151.110 –
421      3-10-2014   151.123;
                     151.99
424      10-12-2015  50.10
426      7-11-2016   30.01 –
                     30.20
                     32.040 –
427      11-8-2016   32.045;
                     32.999
428      12-12-2016  32.046
429      5-8-2017    TSO Table VI
430      12-11-2017  TSO Table VI
431      3-12-2018   TSO Table I
                     92.01 –
432      8-13-2018   92.05;
                     92.99
                     151.002;
                     151.087 –
433      12-10-2018  151.091;
                     151.093;
                     151.094
                     151.002;
                     151.004;
                     151.012;
                     151.025;
                     151.026;
                     151.030;
434      3-10-2020   151.034 
                     151.036;
                     151.044;
                     151.089 –
                     151.091;
                     151.165 –
                     151.169
                     151.002;
                     151.004;
                     151.012;
                     151.025;
                     151.026;
                     151.030;
435      5-11-2020   151.034 –
                     151.036;
                     151.044;
                     151.089 –
                     151.091;
                     151.165 –
                     151.169
                     112.01 –
438      3-15-2023   112.10;
                     112.99
                     90.04 –
439      5-8-2023    90.06;
                     90.22;
                     90.99
440      8-14-2023   30.15
443      9-11-2023   132.040 – 132.049; 132.999
444      1-8-2024    30.14
                    
 
