CITY OF DUNES CITY, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Chapter I
Name and Boundaries
   
1.   Title of enactment
   
2.   Name of city
   
3.   Boundaries
Chapter II
Powers
   
4.   Powers of the city
   
5.   Construction of Charter
Chapter III
Form of Government
   
6.   Where powers vested
   
7.   Council
   
8.   Council Members
   
9.   Mayor
   
10.   Recorder, Judge, Treasurer, and other officers
   
11.   Salaries
   
12.   Qualifications of officers
Chapter IV
Council
   
13.   Meetings
   
14.   Quorum
   
15.   Record of proceedings
   
16.   Proceedings to be public
   
17.   Mayor’s functions at Council meetings
   
18.   President of the Council
   
19.   Vote required
Chapter V
Powers and Duties of Officers
   
20.   Mayor
   
21.   Municipal Judge
   
22.   Recorder
Chapter VI
Elections
   
23.   Regular elections
   
24.   Special elections
   
25.   Regulation of elections
   
26.   Canvass of returns
   
27.   Tie votes
   
28.   Commencement of terms of office
   
29.   Oath of office
   
30.   Nominations
Chapter VII
Vacancies in Office
   
31.   What creates vacancy
   
32.   Filling of vacancies
Chapter VIII
Ordinances
   
33.   Enacting clause
   
34.   Mode of enactment
   
35.   When ordinances take effect
Chapter IX
Public Improvements
   
36.   Condemnation
   
37.   Improvements
   
38.   Special assessments
   
39.   Bids
Chapter X
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
40.   Debt limit
   
41.   Existing ordinances continued
   
42.   Repeal of previously enacted provisions
   
43.   Time of effect of Charter
CHARTER
CHAPTER I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1. TITLE OF ENACTMENT.
   This enactment may be referred to as the Dunes City Charter of 1974.
SECTION 2. NAME OF CITY.
   The municipality of Dunes City, Lane County, Oregon, shall continue to be a
municipal corporation with the name “Dunes City.”
SECTION 3. BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all territory encompassed by its boundaries as they
now exist or hereafter are modified by voters, by the council, or by any other
agency with legal power to modify them. The recorder shall keep in the office
at the city hall at least two copies of this charter in each of which shall be
maintained an accurate up-to-date description of the boundaries. The copies and
descriptions shall be available for public inspection at any time during
regular office hours of the recorder.
CHAPTER II
POWERS
SECTION 4. POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city shall have all powers which the constitutions, statutes, and common
law of the United States and of this State expressly or impliedly grant or
allow municipalities, as fully as though this charter specifically enumerated
each of those powers.
SECTION 5. CONSTRUCTION OF CHARTER.
   In this charter no mention of a particular power shall be construed to be
exclusive or to restrict the scope of the powers which the city would have if
the particular power were not mentioned. The charter shall be liberally
construed to the end that the city may have all powers necessary or convenient
for the conduct of its municipal affairs, including all powers that cities may
assume pursuant to state laws and to the municipal home rule provisions of the
state constitution.
CHAPTER III
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 6. WHERE POWERS VESTED.
   Except as this charter provides otherwise, all powers of the city shall be
vested in the council.
SECTION 7. COUNCIL.
   The council shall be composed of a mayor and six council members elected
from the city at large.
SECTION 8. COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The term of office of each council member in office when this charter is
adopted shall continue until the beginning of the first odd-numbered year after
that time. At each subsequent biennial general election, three council members
shall be elected, each for a term of four years.
SECTION 9. MAYOR.
   At each biennial general election a mayor shall be elected for a term of two
years.
SECTION 10. RECORDER, JUDGE, TREASURER, AND OTHER OFFICERS. 
   Additional officers of the city may be a city recorder, a municipal judge, a
treasurer, each of whom the council shall appoint, and such other officers as
the council deems necessary. The council may combine any two or more appointive
offices. In no such combination shall the municipal judge be subject in
judicial functions to supervision by any other officer.
SECTION 11. SALARIES.
   The compensation for the services of each city officer and employee shall be
the amount fixed by the council.
SECTION 12. QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS.
   No person shall be eligible for an elective office of the city unless at the
time of the election said candidate is a qualified elector within the meaning
of the state constitution and is a resident of Dunes City. The council shall be
the final judge of the qualifications for election of its own members.
CHAPTER IV
COUNCIL
SECTION 13. MEETINGS.
   The council shall hold a regular meeting at least once each month in the
city at a time and at a place which it designates. It shall adopt rules for the
government of its members and proceedings. The mayor, upon the mayor’s own
motion or at the request of three members of the council, may call a special
meeting. These special meetings must have at least 24-hours’ notice. All
regular and special meetings must comply strictly with all rules set forth in
the document known as the Attorney General’s public meetings and records
manual.
SECTION 14. QUORUM.
   A majority of members of the council shall constitute a quorum for its
business, but a smaller number may meet and compel the attendance of absent
members in a manner provided by ordinance.
SECTION 15. RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The council shall cause a record of its proceedings to be kept. Upon the
request of any of its members, the ayes and nays upon any question before it
shall be taken and entered in the record. Further, all records must comply
strictly with all rules set forth in the document known as the Attorney
General’s manual on public meetings and public records.
SECTION 16. PROCEEDINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   No action by the council shall have legal effect unless the motion for the
action and the vote by which it is disposed of take place at proceedings open
to the public.
SECTION 17. MAYOR'S FUNCTIONS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS. 
   The mayor shall be chairman of the council and preside over its
deliberations. The mayor shall vote only when a tie occurs. The mayor shall
have authority to preserve order, enforce the rules of the council, and
determine the order of business under the rules of the council.
SECTION 18. PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   At its first meeting after this charter takes effect and thereafter at its
first meeting of each odd-numbered year, the council by ballot shall elect a
president from its membership. In the mayor’s absence from a council meeting,
the president shall preside over it. Whenever the mayor is unable to perform
the functions of the office, the president shall act as mayor.
SECTION 19. VOTE REQUIRED.
   Except as this charter otherwise provides, the concurrence of a majority of
the members of the council present at a council meeting shall be necessary to
decide any questions before the council.
CHAPTER V
POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
SECTION 20. MAYOR.
   The mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the council, the committees
provided by the rules of the council. The mayor shall sign all records of
proceedings approved by the council. The mayor shall have no veto power and the
mayor or the mayor-designate shall sign all ordinances passed by the council
within three days after their passage. After the council approves a bond of a
city officer or a bond for a license, contract, or proposal, the mayor shall
endorse the bond.
SECTION 21. MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The municipal judge shall be the judicial officer of the city and shall hold
within the city a court known as the municipal court for the city of Dunes
City, Lane County, Oregon. The court shall be open for the transaction of
judicial business at times specified by the council. All area within the city
shall be within the territorial jurisdiction of the court. The municipal judge
shall exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction of all offenses defined and
made punishable by ordinances of the city and of all actions brought to recover
or enforce forfeitures or penalties defined or authorized by ordinances of the
city. The judge shall have authority to issue process for the arrest of any
person accused of an offense against the ordinances of the city, to commit any
such person to jail or admit accused to bail pending trial, to issue subpoenas,
to compel witnesses to appear and testify in court on the trial of any cause
before the court, to compel obedience to such subpoenas to issue any process
necessary to carry into effect the judgments of the court, and to punish
witnesses and others for contempt of court. When not governed by ordinances or
this charter, all proceedings in the municipal court for the violation of a
city ordinance shall be governed by the applicable general laws of the state
governing justices of the peace and justice courts.
SECTION 22. RECORDER.
   The recorder shall serve ex officio as a clerk of the council, attend all
its meetings unless excused therefrom by the council, keep an accurate record
of its proceedings, and sign all orders on the treasury. In the recorder’s
absence from a council meeting, the mayor shall appoint a clerk of the council
pro tem who, while acting in that capacity, shall have all the authority and
duties of the recorder.
CHAPTER VI
ELECTIONS
SECTION 23. REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   Regular city elections shall be held at the same times and places as
biennial general state elections, in accordance with applicable state election
laws. The recorder, pursuant to directions from the council, shall give at
least ten (10) days’ notice of each regular city election by posting notice
thereof at a conspicuous place in the city hall and in one public place in each
voting precinct of the city. The notice shall state the officers to be elected,
the ballot title of each measure to be voted upon, and the time and place of
the election.
SECTION 24. SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The council shall provide the time, manner, and means for holding any
special election. The recorder shall give at least ten (10) days’ notice of
each special election in the manner provided by the action of the council
ordering the election.
SECTION 25. REGULATION OF ELECTIONS.
   Except as this charter provides otherwise and as the council provides
otherwise by ordinances relating to elections, the general laws of the state
shall apply to the conduct of all city elections, recounts of the returns
therefrom, and contests thereof.
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 34
SECTION 26. CANVASS OF RETURNS.
   In all elections held in conjunction with state and county elections, the
state laws governing the filing of returns by the county clerk shall apply. In
each special city election the returns therefrom shall be filed with the
recorder on or before noon of the day following, and not later than five days
after the election the council shall meet and canvass the returns. The results
of all elections shall be entered in the record of the proceedings of the
council. The entry shall state the total number of votes cast at the election,
the votes cast for each person and for and against each proposition, the name
of each person elected to office, the office to which said person has been
elected, and a reference to each measure enacted or approved. Immediately after
the canvass is completed, the recorder shall make and sign a certificate to
that person within one day after the canvass. A certificate so made and
delivered shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of the statements
contained in it.
SECTION 27. TIE VOTES.
   In the event of a tie vote for candidates for an elective office, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the council.
SECTION 28. COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of a person elected at a regular city election shall
commence the first council meeting of the year immediately following the
election.
SECTION 29. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of the office, each officer shall take an
oath or shall affirm support of the constitutions and laws of the United States
and of Oregon and agree to faithfully perform the duties of the office.
SECTION 30. NOMINATIONS.
   A qualified elector who is a resident of the city may be nominated for an
elective city office to be filled at the election. The nomination shall be by a
petition that specifies the office sought and shall be in a form prescribed by
the council. The petition shall be signed by not fewer than 20 electors. No
elector shall sign more than one petition for each office to be filled at the
election. If such is done, the signature shall be valid only on the first
sufficient petition filed for the office. The signatures to a nomination
petition need not all be appended to one paper, but to each separate paper of
the petition shall be attached an affidavit of the circulator thereof,
indicating the number of signers of the paper and stating that each signature
appended thereto was made in the presence of person filing the petition and is
the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. Opposite each
signature shall be stated the signer’s place of residence, identified by its
street and number or other sufficient designation. All nomination papers
comprising a petition shall be assembled and filed with the recorder as one
instrument not earlier than 90 nor later than 65 days before the election. The
recorder shall make a record of the exact time and date at which each petition
is filed and shall take and preserve the name and address of the person by whom
it is filed. If the petition is not signed by the required number of qualified
electors, the recorder shall notify the candidate and the person who filed the
petition within five days after the filing. If the petition is insufficient in
any other particular, the recorder shall return it immediately to the person
who filed it, certifying in writing wherein the petition is insufficient. The
deficient petition may be amended and filed again as a new petition, or a
substitute petition for the same candidate may be filed, within the regular
time for filing nomination petitions. The recorder shall notify an eligible
person of this nomination, and that person shall file with the recorder a
written acceptance of nomination, in such form as the council may require,
within five days of notification of nomination. Upon receipt of the acceptance
of nomination, the recorder shall cause the nominee’s name to be printed on the
ballots. The petition of nomination for a successful candidate at an election
shall be preserved in the office of the recorder until the term of office for
which the candidate is elected expires.
CHAPTER VII
VACANCIES IN OFFICE
SECTION 31. WHAT CREATES VACANCY.
   An office shall be deemed vacant upon the incumbent’s death; adjudicated
incompetence, conviction of a felony, other offense pertaining to the office,
or unlawful destruction of public records; resignation; recall from office, or
ceasing to possess the qualifications for the office; upon the failure of the
person elected or appointed to the office to qualify therefor within ten days
after the time for the term of office to commence; or in the case of a mayor or
council member, upon that person’s absence from the city for 30 days without
the consent of the council or upon absence from meetings of the council for 60
days without like consent, and upon a declaration by the council of the
vacancy.
SECTION 32. FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   Vacant elective offices in the city shall be filled by appointment. A
majority vote of the council shall be required to validate the appointment. The
appointee’s term of office shall begin immediately upon appointment and shall
continue until the beginning of the year following the next general biennial
election and until the successor is qualified; and the successor for the
unexpired term shall be chosen at the next general biennial election after said
appointment. Of those elected, the three receiving the largest number of votes
shall each hold office for four years and those receiving the lesser votes
shall each hold office for the unexpired two years.
CHAPTER VIII
ORDINANCES
SECTION 33. ENACTING CLAUSE.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances hereafter enacted shall be “Dunes City
ordains as follows: .”
SECTION 34. MODE OF ENACTMENT.
   (1)   Except as the second and third paragraphs of this section provide to
the contrary, every ordinance of the council shall, before being put upon its
final passage, be read fully and distinctly in open council meeting on two
different days.
   (2)   Except as the third paragraph of this section provides to the
contrary, an ordinance may be enacted at a single meeting of the council by
unanimous vote of all council members present, upon being read first in full
and then by title.
   (3)   Any of the readings may be by title only if no council member present
at the meeting requests to have the ordinance read in full or if a copy of the
ordinance is provided for each council member and three copies are provided for
public inspection in the office of the city recorder not later than one week
before the first reading of the ordinance and if notice of their availability
is given forthwith upon the filing, by written notice posted at the city hall
and two other public places in the city and by advertisement in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. An ordinance enacted after being read by title
alone may have no legal effect if it differs substantially from its terms as it
was thus filed prior to such reading, unless each section incorporating such a
difference is read fully and distinctly in open council meeting as finally
amended prior to being approved by the council.
   (4)   Upon the final vote on an ordinance, the ayes and nays of the member
shall be taken and entered in the record of proceedings.
   (5)   Upon the enactment of an ordinance the recorder shall sign it with the
date of its passage and recorder’s name and title of office.
SECTION 35. WHEN ORDINANCES TAKE EFFECT.
   An ordinance enacted by the council shall take effect on the thirtieth day
after its enactment. When the council deems it advisable, however, an ordinance
may provide a later time for it to take effect, and in case of an emergency, it
may take effect immediately. An emergency is defined as any circumstance that
appears to adversely affect the health or welfare of the citizens of Dunes
City.
CHAPTER IX
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION 36. CONDEMNATION.
   Any necessity of taking property for the city by condemnation shall be
determined by the council and declared by a resolution of the council
describing the property and stating the uses to which it shall be devoted.
SECTION 37. IMPROVEMENTS.
   The procedure for making, altering, vacating, or abandoning a public
improvement shall be governed by general ordinance or, to the extent not so
governed, by the applicable general laws of the state. Action on any proposed
public improvement except a sidewalk or except an improvement unanimously
declared by the council to be needed at once because of an emergency, shall be
suspended for six months upon a remonstrance thereto by the owners of two-
thirds of the land to be specially assessed therefor. In this section, “owner”
shall mean the record holder of legal title or, where land is being purchased
under a land sale contract recorded or verified to the recorder in writing by
the record holder of legal title to the land, the purchaser shall be deemed the
“owner.”
Cross-reference:
   Local improvements and assessments, see
Chapter 35
SECTION 38. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The procedure for levying, collecting, and enforcing the payment of special
assessments for public improvements or other services to be charged against
real property shall be governed by general ordinance.
Cross-reference:
   Local improvements and assessments, see
Chapter 35
SECTION 39. BIDS.
   A contract in excess of $2,000.00 for a public improvement to be made by a
private contractor shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder for the
contract and shall be done in accordance with plans and specifications approved
by the council.
Cross-reference:
   Improvement construction by contract, see §
35.05
CHAPTER X
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 40. DEBT LIMIT.
   Except by consent of the voters, the city’s voluntary floating indebtedness
shall not exceed $10,000.00 at any one time. For purposes of calculating the
limitation, however, the legally authorized debt of the city in existence at
the time this charter takes effect shall not be considered. All city officials
and employees who create or officially approve any indebtedness in excess of
this limitation shall be jointly and severally liable for the excess.
SECTION 41. EXISTING ORDINANCES CONTINUED.
   All ordinances of the city consistent with this charter and in force when it
takes effect shall remain in effect until amended or repealed.
SECTION 42. REPEAL OF PREVIOUSLY ENACTED PROVISIONS.
   All charter provisions of the city enacted prior to the time that this
charter takes effect are hereby repealed.
SECTION 43. TIME OF EFFECT OF CHARTER.
   This charter shall take effect the 4th day of November, 1980.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application for future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Violations of code or ordinances, see
Chapter 36
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of the ordinances shall be designated as the “Code of
Dunes City,” “code,” or “this code” and may be so cited.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION FOR FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this title compatible with future legislation shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
subchapter, section numbers, and divisions are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual, sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For purpose of this code, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Dunes City,
Oregon.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters,
subchapters, sections, and divisions.
      COUNTY. Lane County, Oregon.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      O.A.R. Oregon Administrative Rules.
      O.R.S. Oregon Revised Statutes.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   When a statute or ordinances requires an act to be done which, by law,
an agent or deputy may do as well as the principal, such requisition shall be
satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized agent or deputy.
   (C)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable,
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, re-codified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for transaction of all city business.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect 30 days after passage.
   (B)   At the discretion of the City Council, an ordinance may provide a
later time for it to take effect. In case of an emergency, an ordinance may
take effect immediately.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter,
subchapter, section, or division of this code, the specific chapter,
subchapter, section, or division shall be specifically identified and repealed
and a new chapter, subchapter, section, or division containing the desired
amendment substituted in its place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of such chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to such indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016; Ord. 244, passed 5-11-2017)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code section, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and any amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 180, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-
1985).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that th text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.314
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the county published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
(Ord. 237, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   For offenses related to any provision set forth in this code which does not
have its own penalty, see
Chapter 36.
Cross-reference:
   Code enforcement, see
Chapter 36
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   REVENUE AND FINANCE; TAXATION
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
      
36.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
37.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL
   [Reserved]
Charter reference:
   Council, see Charter
Chapter IV
   Form of government, see Charter
Chapter III
   Mayor, see Charter §
20
   Ordinances, see Charter
Chapter VIII
   Vacancies in office, see Charter
Chapter VII
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 34
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
   [Reserved]
Charter reference:
   Municipal Judge, see Charter §
21
   Recorder, Judge, Treasurer, and other officers, see Charter §
10
   Recorder, see Charter §
22
CHAPTER 32: COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Committees
   
32.001   Officers
   
32.002   Terms of office
   
32.003   Vacancies
   
32.004   Removal of members
   
32.005   Meetings, voting, quorum, attendance, minutes, reports
   
32.006   Powers, limitations
   
32.007   Communications
   
32.008   Compensation
   
32.009   Ad hoc committees
   
32.010   Code violations
Commissions
   
32.025   Terms of office
   
32.026   Vacancies
   
32.027   Removal of members
   
32.028   Meetings, voting, quorum, attendance, minutes, reports
   
32.029   Powers, limitations
   
32.030   Communications
   
32.031   Compensation
   
32.032   Regulations, procedures, records
   
32.033   Ex parte contacts
   
32.034   Conflicts of interest
   
32.035   Time limit for commission action
   
32.036   Code violations
Water Quality Committee
   
32.050   Established
   
32.051   Purpose
   
32.052   Members, qualifications
   
32.053   Duties
Citizen Advisory Committees
   
32.065   Appointment, conduct of meetings
Planning Commission
   
32.075   Established, continued
   
32.076   Members, qualifications
   
32.077   Officers
   
32.078   Duties
   
32.079   Appeal of decisions
COMMITTEES
§ 32.001 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The appointed Council member of each committee will be the
Chairperson. In January of each year, each committee will elect a Vice
Chairperson to serve for the following 12 months.
   (B)   When acting as Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson foregoes his or her
normal voting rights and assumes the rights, duties, and limitations of the
Chairperson.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.002 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Committee members serving at the time of adoption of this subchapter
shall serve until the expiration of the term for which they were appointed.
   (B)   (1)   Citizen member appointments shall be for terms of three years
and staggered so that not more than two positions become open each year.
      (2)   The Council member position will be for a term of one year.
Appointments will be made by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
Appointments expire on the date of the first City Council meeting in January of
the expiration year.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.003 VACANCIES.
   A vacant position will be filled by appointment made by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council for the remainder of the unexpired term. Any
appointed committee member may resign from the committee at any time, either in
writing addressed to the City Council or by verbal declaration made during any
legally noticed City Council meeting.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.004 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Any member who, unless officially excused, fails to attend three
consecutive meetings of the committee, or fails to attend at least 50% of the
meetings in any one year, may be disqualified from serving on the committee,
and upon written notification of such absence by the Committee Chairperson to
the City Council and the citizen member being considered for disqualification,
may be replaced. Replacements will be made in the manner prescribed in §
32.003.
   (B)   A member may be removed by majority vote of the City Council during
his or her term for misconduct or non-performance of duty after a public
hearing before the City Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.005 MEETINGS, VOTING, QUORUM, ATTENDANCE, MINUTES, REPORTS.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   The committee will meet at least in February and October of each
year, at a time to be set by the committee. Notice of regular committee
meetings will be posted and distributed not less than 24 hours prior to the
meeting.
      (2)   The Chairperson, or two members, may call a previously unannounced
special meeting to be held not less than 24 hours after notice is given.
      (3)   Notice of a previously unannounced special meeting will be given to
committee members, the City Recorder, the Mayor, the local media representative
(s), and a notice will be posted in the City Hall. All meetings of the
committee will be noticed and held in accordance with State Open Meeting Laws.
   (B)   Voting. The Chairperson will preside over all meetings and will vote
only when a tie occurs. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson
will preside over the meeting. In the Chairperson’s absence, if the Vice
Chairperson is not present, the City Council may appoint an acting Chairperson.
When acting as Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson, or other designee, will only
exercise his or her vote if a tie vote occurs.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the committee constitute a
quorum. The Committee Chairperson, or any acting Chairperson, will only be
considered a voting member for the purposes of establishing a quorum, as his or
her voting rights are only exercised if a tie vote occurs.
   (D)   Attendance. Citizen members who fail to notify the Committee
Chairperson or city staff of inability to attend a meeting will be recorded as
an unexcused absence.
   (E)   Minutes and reports. Written minutes of meetings will be taken and are
to include the meeting date, members present, and members absent, and whether
such absence is excused or unexcused; and items discussed, citizen input,
matters voted upon by the members, number of volunteer hours performed since
the prior meeting, and recommendations to the City Council. Such minutes will
also be submitted to the City Recorder by electronic communication in a format
requested by the City Recorder. The Chairperson will present a written
committee report to the City Council at its regularly scheduled meetings. All
records of the committee shall be retained as public records in accordance with
state law.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.006 POWERS, LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Neither the committee, as a whole, nor any member or members
individually or collectively will exercise authority to bind the city, its
officers, or its agents to any financial commitment or obligation, except as
specifically directed or authorized by the City Council. The committee has only
those powers and duties as are now or hereafter granted or imposed on it by the
City Charter, ordinances, and directives of the City Council. All actions of
the committee will be deemed advisory to the City Council and will have no
legislative or judicial effect unless and until formally adopted by the City
Council.
   (B)   (1)   The Committee may request permission from the City Council to
consult with experts on an as-needed basis. Temporary ad hoc committees created
to perform a specific task may be appointed by the City Council to assist the
committee in the completion of its duties.
      (2)   Any ad hoc committee so created will cease to exist upon the
accomplishment of the special purpose for which it was created, or when
abolished by a majority vote of the City Council.
      (3)   Meetings of any ad hoc committee so created will be noticed and
held in accordance with the State Open Meetings Law, being O.R.S. 192.610 et
seq.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.007 COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all written correspondence,
media statements, mailings, newsletters, web postings, email, or any other
information desired to be sent or disseminated by the committee to anyone other
than members of the City Council, Mayor, city employees, or other members of
the committee must first be approved by the City Council prior to mailing,
sending, or distribution.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all written correspondence,
media statements, mailings, postcards, web postings, email, telephone contacts,
or other communication desired to be sent or made by any member or members of
the committee individually or collectively on behalf of the committee to anyone
other than other committee members, the City Council, the Mayor, or the City
Recorder must first be approved by the committee prior to such communication.
   (C)   Communications that are necessary, reasonable, and incidental to
actions taken in accordance with the Algal Bloom Sampling and Reporting
Protocol and the Quality Assurance Project Plan are exempt from the provisions
of this section.
   (D)   Unless otherwise restricted by state law or the city’s legal counsel,
nothing in this section prevents an individual committee member from expressing
his or her personal opinion on any issue and in any form; provided, however,
that the individual specifically identifies that he or she is speaking on their
own behalf and not on behalf of the city or any committee of the city.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.008 COMPENSATION.
   Committee members will serve without compensation, other than reimbursement
for duly authorized expenses approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.009 AD HOC COMMITTEES.
   The City Council may create temporary ad hoc committees to perform a
specific task or tasks. Any ad hoc committee so created will cease to exist
upon the accomplishment of the special purpose for which it was created, or
when abolished by a majority vote of the City Council. Meetings of any ad hoc
committee so created will be noticed and held in accordance with State Open
Meetings Laws, being O.R.S. 192.610 et seq. and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.010 CODE VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of the provisions of this subchapter will be processed in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 36.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
COMMISSIONS
§ 32.025 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Commission members serving at the time of adoption of this subchapter
will serve until the expiration of the term for which they were appointed.
   (B)   (1)   Citizen member appointments will be for terms of three years and
staggered so that not more than two positions become open each year.
      (2)   Appointments will be made by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council.
      (3)   Appointments expire on the date of the first City Council meeting
in January of the expiration year.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.026 VACANCIES.
   (A)   A vacant position will be filled by appointment made by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Any appointed Commission member may resign from the commission at any
time, either in writing, addressed to the City Council, or by verbal
declaration made during any legally noticed City Council meeting.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.027 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The City Council has the sole authority to remove any member as follows.
   (A)   Any member who, unless officially excused, fails to attend three
consecutive meetings of the commission, or fails to attend at least 50% of the
meetings in any one year, may be disqualified from serving on the commission,
and upon certification of such absence by the Chairperson of the Commission
will be replaced in the manner prescribed in §
32.026.
   (B)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 227.030, a member may be removed by the City
Council during his or her term for misconduct or non-performance of duty after
a public hearing before the City Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.028 MEETINGS, VOTING, QUORUM, ATTENDANCE, MINUTES, REPORTS.
   (A)   Meetings. The commission should meet at least monthly at times to be
set by the commission. Any meeting may be cancelled if there is no business to
come before the commission. Notice of regular commission meetings will be
posted and distributed not less than 48 hours prior to the meeting. The
Chairperson, or two members, may call a previously unannounced special meeting
to be held not less than 24 hours after notice is given. Notice of a previously
unannounced special meeting will be given to Commission members, the City
Recorder, the Mayor, and a local media representative(s). Notice will be posted
at the City Hall and, if time permits, issued via electronic communication to
interested parties who have requested to be notified in that manner. All
meetings of the commission will be noticed and held in accordance with State
Open Meetings Laws, being O.R.S. 192.610 et seq.
   (B)   Voting. The Chairperson will preside over all meetings and will vote
only when a tie occurs. In the absence of the Chairperson, the elected Vice
Chairperson will preside over the meeting. In the Chairperson’s absence, if the
elected Vice Chairperson is not present, the City Council may appoint an acting
Chairperson. When acting as Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson or other
designee, will only exercise his or her vote if a tie vote occurs.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of members will constitute a quorum. The Commission
Chairperson, or any acting Chairperson such as the elected Vice Chairperson, or
other appointee as allowed by law, will only be considered a voting member for
the purposes of establishing a quorum, as their voting rights are only
exercised if a tie vote occurs.
   (D)   Attendance. Citizen members who fail to notify the Commission
Chairperson or city staff of inability to attend a meeting will be recorded as
an unexcused absence.
   (E)   Minutes and reports.
      (1)   Written minutes of meetings will be taken and are to include the
meeting date, members present, members absent, whether such absence is excused
or unexcused, items discussed, citizen input, matters voted upon by the
members, number of volunteer hours performed during the prior month, and
recommendations to the City Council.
      (2)   Such minutes will also be submitted to the City Recorder by
electronic communication in a format requested by the City Recorder. The
Chairperson will present a written commission report to the City Council at the
City Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting. All records will be retained
as public records in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.029 POWERS, LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Neither the commission, as a whole, nor any member or members
individually or collectively will exercise authority to bind the city, its
officers, or its agents to any financial commitment or obligation (except as
specifically directed or authorized by the City Council or by state law).
      (2)   (a)   The commission has only those powers and duties as are now or
hereafter granted and imposed on it by the City Charter, ordinances, and
directives of the Council.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by this code and the City Council,
all actions of the commission will be deemed advisory to the Mayor and Council
and will have no legislative or judicial effect unless and until formally
adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The commission may request permission from the City Council to
consult with experts on an as-needed basis.
      (2)   Such request may be included in a commission’s budget request. Ad
hoc committees may be appointed by the City Council to assist the commission in
the completion of its duties.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.030 COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all written correspondence,
media statements, mailings, newsletters, web postings, email, or any other
information desired to be sent or disseminated by the commission to anyone
other than members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Recorder, or other
members of the commission must first be approved by the City Council prior to
mailing, sending, or distribution.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all written correspondence,
media statements, mailings, postcards, web postings, email, telephone contacts,
or any other communication desired to be sent or made by any member or members
of the Commission individually or collectively to anyone other than other
members of the commission, the City Council, Mayor, or City Recorder, must
first be approved by the commission prior to such communication being made.
   (C)   Communications that are necessary, reasonable, and incidental to
contracted road work and the scheduling and maintenance of roadways and rights-
of-way are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Unless otherwise restricted by state law or the city’s legal counsel,
nothing in this section prevents an individual commission member from
expressing his or her opinion on any issue and in any form; provided, however,
that the individual specifically identifies that he or she is speaking on their
own behalf and not on behalf of the city or any commission of the city.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.031 COMPENSATION.
   Commission members will serve without compensation, other than reimbursement
for duly authorized expenses approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.032 REGULATIONS, PROCEDURES, RECORDS.
   Commissions will adopt rules and procedures for the transaction of business
and will keep a record of their resolutions, transactions, findings,
recommendations, and determinations, which will be public record.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.033 EX PARTE CONTACTS.
   In accordance with O.R.S. Chapter 244, any discussion, other than one made
at a public hearing of the commission, that concerns a specific case scheduled
or likely to come before the commission that is between a voting member and an
applicant, an applicant’s representative, or any other person with a direct
interest in the matter, will be made known and the substance of the discussion
entered into the record by the member at the beginning of the commission’s
public hearing on that case.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.034 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A member of the commission will not participate in any commission
proceeding or action in which any of the following has a direct or substantial
financial interest:
      (1)   The member or the spouse, child, parent, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, step child, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step parent, sibling, step
sibling, household members and spouses’s family and the like of the member; or
      (2)   Any business in which the member is then serving or has served
within the previous two years, or any business with which the member is
negotiating for or has an arrangement or understanding concerning prospective
partnership or employment.
   (B)   Any actual or potential interest will be disclosed at the meeting of
the commission where the action is being taken.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.035 TIME LIMIT FOR COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Commissions will complete its actions on all applications coming
before them within 60 calendar days of the application being complete, unless a
longer time is provided for the city to take final action on the application by
request, in writing, from the applicant.
   (B)   Commissions will complete its action on all other requests within 60
calendar days of the filing thereof unless a shorter time is provided by order
of a court of competent jurisdiction, the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA), or
by the city code.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.036 CODE VIOLATIONS.
   Any violations of the provisions of this subchapter will be processed in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 36.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
WATER QUALITY COMMITTEE
§ 32.050 ESTABLISHED.
   A Water Quality Committee (hereafter “Committee”) is hereby established for
the city.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.051 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations to the City Council
and/or the Planning Commission for the conservation, protection, maintenance,
and improvement of the quality of the water resources being utilized by the
city’s residents, and promotion of public health, welfare, and safety.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.052 MEMBERS, QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Committee will consist of seven members: one City Council member,
who will act as the Chairperson who votes only when a tie occurs, and six
citizen members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council who are
legal residents of the city, of voting age, and who reside within the
watersheds of Siltcoos or Woahink Lakes.
   (B)   At least two of the citizen members will be water testers one for
Siltcoos Lake and one for Woahink Lake.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.053 DUTIES.
   The Committee will serve in an advisory capacity to the City Council and/or
the Planning Commission on issues related to the conservation, protection,
maintenance, and improvement of the quality of the water resources being
utilized by the city’s residents. The duties and responsibilities of the
Committee are:
   (A)   Based upon the annual and long-term goals established by the City
Council, develop an annual list of activities to be conducted upon approval by
the City Council and submit a budget request to the Budget Officer on or before
March 1 of each year;
   (B)   Collect, record, report, and archive the water quality monitoring data
in accordance with the Quality Assurance Project Plan (QAPP);
   (C)   Report all data collected to the City Recorder who will relay the
information to the City Council and the Planning Commission;
   (D)   Disseminate water quality monitoring data only as directed by the City
Council;
   (E)   Follow the “Algal Bloom Sampling and Reporting Protocol”;
   (F)   Examine water-related matters within the Siltcoos and Woahink
watersheds as directed by the City Council;
   (G)   Upon the request of the City Council, review draft city ordinances
that have the purpose of maintaining and enhancing water quality;
   (H)   Investigate grant opportunities and report those opportunities to the
City Recorder and the Mayor or Council President;
   (I)   At the discretion of the City Council and/or the Planning Commission,
may serve as an Advisory Committee to the Planning Commission in all land use
ordinances relating to water quality and quantity; and
   (J)   Organize or do such other duties, projects, or events as may, from
time to time, be requested by the City Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMITTEES
§ 32.065 APPOINTMENT, CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   Citizen Advisory Committees will be appointed and conducted in accordance
with the City Citizen Involvement Program Policy (Resolution Series 2014, No. 2
adopted January 9, 2014).
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.075 ESTABLISHED, CONTINUED.
   There is established and continued a City Planning Commission, referred to
in this subchapter as “Commission,” for the city.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.076 MEMBERS, QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission will consist of five members, of which one will
be the Chairperson who votes only when a tie occurs.
      (2)   All members will be legal residents of the city and of voting age.
Appointments will be made by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   No two or more members of the Commission will have the same
business, occupation, trade, or profession.
      (2)   However, business persons engaged in different kinds of business
will not be prevented by this division (B) from serving, and being retired will
not be considered an occupation within the meaning of this division (B).
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.077 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Planning Secretary will be the Secretary of the Commission and
will provide staff services, recommendations, and determinations.
   (B)   (1)   In January of each year, the Commission will elect from its
membership a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to serve for one-year terms.
      (2)   The Chairperson, or Vice Chairperson when acting as the
Chairperson, foregoes normal voting rights and assumes the rights, duties, and
limitations of the Chairperson.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.078 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Planning Commission are:
   (A)   Approve or deny preliminary and final land use applications as defined
in Chapter 156;
   (B)   Recommend and make suggestions to the City Council and other public
authorities concerning the laying out, widening, extending, parking, and
locating of public thoroughfares; parking of vehicles; relief of traffic
congestion; betterment of housing and sanitation conditions; and establishment
of districts for limiting the use, height, area, bulk, and other
characteristics of buildings and structures related to land development;
   (C)   Recommend to the City Council and other public authorities plans for
regulating the future growth, development, and beautification of the city in
respect to its public and private buildings and works, streets, parks, grounds,
and vacant lots, and plans consistent with future growth and development of the
city, in order to secure to the city and its inhabitants sanitation, proper
service of all public utilities, and harbor, shipping, and transportation
facilities;
   (D)   Recommend to the City Council and other public authorities plans for
promotion, development, and regulation of industrial and economic needs of the
community in respect to private and public enterprises engaged in industrial
pursuits;
   (E)   Study and propose in general such measures as may be advisable for
promotion of the public interest, health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
welfare of the city and of the area six miles adjacent thereto;
   (F)   Make recommendation to the City Council for the adoption of amendments
to the City Comprehensive Plan, or any part or element thereof;
   (G)   Recommend to the City Council ordinances intended to carry out the
purposes, principles, and proposals expressed in the City Comprehensive Plan;
   (H)   Advise and cooperate with other planning agencies within the state;
   (I)   Promote public interest in and understanding of the Comprehensive Plan
and of planning and zoning in general;
   (J)   Make recommendation to the Council with regard to the orderly
development of the territory within the city;
   (K)   Perform all other acts and things necessary or proper to carry out the
provisions of O.R.S. 227.010 through 227.180, and other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance or order of the Council;
   (L)   Investigate grant opportunities and report those opportunities to the
City Recorder and the Mayor or Council President;
   (M)   At the discretion of the City Council, serve as the Committee for
Citizen’s Involvement (CCI) pursuant to Goal I of the Statewide Planning Goals
and the City Comprehensive Plan;
   (N)   Conduct site reviews as required by Chapter 156 or in conjunction with
investigation of code violations; and
   (O)   Organize or do such other duties, projects, or events as may, from
time to time, be requested by the City Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.079 APPEAL OF DECISIONS.
   In any action where a decision has been made by the Planning Commission,
that decision may be appealed for review in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 156. Any such request for review must be received by the City Recorder
within ten calendar days of the decision by the Planning Commission. The City
Recorder is authorized and directed to collect an appeal fee at the time of
filing of appeal. The appeal fee will be included on the schedule of fees
adopted by the Council and may be amended by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-14-2016)
CHAPTER 33: REVENUE AND FINANCE; TAXATION
Section
Taxation
   
33.01   Tax on marijuana items sold
Fines
   
33.15   Collection services; unpaid invoices
Purchasing Policy
   
33.30   Introduction
   
33.31   Definitions
   
33.32   Authority
   
33.33   Preferences
   
33.34   General provisions
   
33.35   Source selection methods
   
33.36   Personal services contracts
   
33.37   Alternative source selection methods
   
33.38   Surplus property
   
33.39   Appeal procedures
TAXATION
§ 33.01 TAX ON MARIJUANA ITEMS SOLD.
   (A)   Establishment. The recreational marijuana sales tax of the city is
hereby established.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator/Recorder, the City
Administrator/Recorder’s designee, and/or another individual or entity
designated by the city to collect the tax on behalf of the city.
      CONSUMER. A person who purchases, acquires, owns, holds or uses marijuana
items other than for the purpose of resale.
      MARIJUANA ITEM. Marijuana, cannabinoid products, cannabinoid concentrates
and cannabinoid extracts as defined in O.R.S. 475B.015.
      MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person licensed under O.R.S. 475B.110 who sells
marijuana items to a consumer in the state.
      RETAIL SALES PRICE. The total consideration paid to a marijuana retailer
for a marijuana item by or on behalf of a consumer, excluding any tax.
   (C)   Tax imposed. The city hereby imposes a tax on each recreational
marijuana item sold to a consumer within the city by a marijuana retailer. The
City Council shall set the tax rate by resolution; however, the tax rate
adopted by the City Council shall not exceed 3% of the retail sales price of
each recreational marijuana item sold. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the
consumer to the city and shall be extinguished only by payment to the marijuana
retailer or to the city.
   (D)   Collection.
      (1)   The consumer shall pay the tax to the marijuana retailer at the
time of the purchase or sale of the recreational marijuana item. Every
marijuana retailer shall collect the tax from the consumer at the time of the
sale of a recreational marijuana item. The tax collected by the marijuana
retailer shall be held in trust by the marijuana retailer for payment to the
city. The marijuana retailer shall remit the tax to the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator is authorized to exercise all supervisory and administrative
powers with regard to the administration, collection and enforcement of the tax
authorized by this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the city may enter
into an intergovernmental agreement authorized by O.R.S. 190.010, 190.110, or
305.620 for collection of the tax imposed by division (C) above. The City
Council shall authorize by resolution any intergovernmental agreement entered
into pursuant to this division (D)(2), after making a finding that any
collection, enforcement, appeal, or refund procedures authorized by the
intergovernmental agreement are comparable to, or provide greater protections
to marijuana retailers and to the public, than the procedures set out in
divisions (E) through (H) below. If an intergovernmental agreement entered into
pursuant to this division (D)(2) is approved by City Council resolution, the
tax collection and enforcement procedures authorized by the intergovernmental
agreement shall govern collection of the tax imposed by division (C) above as
provided in the intergovernmental agreement.
   (E)   Accounting and records.
      (1)   Every marijuana retailer must keep and preserve, in a generally
accepted accounting format used for reporting revenue and taxes due on business
activity, detailed records of all sales made and all taxes collected. Every
marijuana retailer must keep and preserve such records for a period of six
years. The Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect all such records
at reasonable times.
      (2)   For purposes of determining the accuracy of any tax return or for
the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, the Tax Administrator may examine any
books, papers, records, or memoranda bearing upon the marijuana retailer’s tax
returns, including copies of the marijuana retailer’s state and federal income
tax returns and copies of the marijuana retailer’s state marijuana tax returns.
All books, invoices and other records shall be made available within the city
for examination by the Tax Administrator during regular business hours.
   (F)   Penalties and interest.
      (1)   Any marijuana retailer who has not been granted an extension of
time for remittance of tax due and who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
section prior to delinquency shall pay a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
tax due in addition to the amount of the tax.
      (2)   Any marijuana retailer who has not been granted an extension of
time for remittance of tax due, and who fails to pay any delinquent remittance
on or before a period of 30 calendar days following the date on which the
remittance first becomes delinquent, shall pay a second delinquency penalty of
15% of the amount of the tax due plus the amount of the tax and the 10% penalty
first imposed.
      (3)   If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this section is due to fraud or intent to evade the
provisions of this section, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be
added to the amount of the remittance due, in addition to the penalties stated
in divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above.
      (4)   In addition to the penalties imposed, any marijuana retailer who
fails to remit any tax imposed by this section shall pay interest at the rate
of 0.5% per month or fraction thereof, without proration for portions of a
month, on the amount of the tax due, exclusive of penalties, from the date on
which the remittance first becomes delinquent, until paid.
      (5)   Every penalty imposed and any interest that accrues under the
provisions of this section shall be merged with, and become a part of, the tax
required to be paid.
   (G)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Tax Administrator may
appeal to the City Administrator/Recorder by filing a notice of appeal with the
Tax Administrator within ten calendar days of the date the notice of decision
is served or mailed. The Tax Administrator shall fix a time and place for
hearing the appeal and shall give the appellant ten calendar days’ written
notice of the time and place of the hearing.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the City Administrator/
Recorder under division (G)(1) above may appeal to the Council by filing a
notice of appeal with the Tax Administrator within ten calendar days of the
date the City Administrator/Recorder’s decision is served or mailed. The Tax
Administrator shall transmit the notice, together with the file of the appealed
matter, to the City Council, who shall fix a time and place of hearing the
appeal. The City Council shall give the appellant not less than ten calendar
days written notice of the time and place of hearing the appeal.
   (H)   Refund. Whenever the amount of any tax imposed under this section has
been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the Tax Administrator, it may be refunded, provided a verified
claim in writing therefor, stating the specific reason upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three years from the date
of payment. The claim shall be made on forms provided by the Tax Administrator.
If the Tax Administrator approves the claim, the excess amount collected or
paid may be refunded to, or may be credited on any amounts then due and payable
from the marijuana retailer from whom it was collected or by whom it was paid
and the balance may be refunded to the marijuana retailer or the marijuana
retailer’s administrators, executors or assigns.
(Ord. 239, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 243, passed 1-12-2017)
FINES
§ 33.15 COLLECTION SERVICES; UNPAID INVOICES.
   (A)   The city performs and offers certain miscellaneous services, the cost
of which are most reasonably borne by the recipient, as opposed to paying for
said services from general city funds.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 697.105, which states that a public body may
add a reasonable fee to the amount of a debt, payable by the debtor, to
compensate the public body, in whole or in part, for the collection agency fee
incurred or to be incurred once the public body has provided notice to the
debtor of the following:
         (a)   The existence of the debt;
         (b)   The debt may be assigned to a private collection agency for
collection; and
         (c)   The amount of the fee may be added to the debt.
      (2)   A public body may add a fee that exceeds the collection fee of the
private collection agency.
   (C)   The following services shall be charged out at the level of fees
included:
      (1)   The debtor will be charged 20% of any unpaid city invoice after 90
days and sent to the collections agency unless it requires further legal
action; or
      (2)   The debtor will be charged 25% of any unpaid city invoice after 90
days and sent to the collections agency that requires legal action.
(Res. 8, passed 8-21-2024)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 33.30 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose of purchasing policy. This city purchasing policy is adopted
by the City Council as the governing body of the city to establish the rules
and procedures for contracts entered into and purchases made by the city. It is
the policy of the city in adopting this city purchasing policy to utilize
public contracting and purchasing practices and methods that maximize the
efficient use of city resources and the purchasing power of city funds by:
      (1)   Promoting impartial and open competition;
      (2)   Using solicitation materials that are complete and contain a clear
statement of contract specifications and requirements; and
      (3)   Taking full advantage of evolving procurement methods that suit the
purchasing needs of the city as they emerge within various industries.
   (B)   Interpretation of purchasing policy. Except as specifically provided
in this city purchasing policy, public contracts and purchases shall be
awarded, administered, and governed according to O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B,
and 279C (the “Public Contracting Code”) and the Attorney General’s Model
Public Contract Rules (“Model Rules”), as they now exist.
      (1)   In furtherance of the purposes of the objective set forth in
division (A) above, it is the city’s intent that this city purchasing policy be
interpreted to authorize the full use of all contracting and purchasing powers
described in O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C.
      (2)   The Model Rules adopted under O.R.S. 279A.065 shall apply to the
contracts and purchases of the city to the extent they do not conflict with
this city purchasing policy and the rules and regulations adopted by the city.
      (3)   In the event of a conflict between any provisions of this city
purchasing policy and the Model Rules, the provisions of this city purchasing
policy shall prevail.
   (C)   Specific provisions’ precedence over general provisions. In the event
of a conflict between the provisions of this city purchasing policy, the more
specific provision shall take precedence over the more general provision.
   (D)   Conflict with federal statutes and regulations. Except as otherwise
expressly provided in O.R.S. Chapters 279A, 279B, and/or 279C, applicable
federal statutes and regulations govern when federal funds are involved.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTERING AGENCY. The contracting agency that solicited and established
the original contract in a cooperative procurement for goods, services, and
personal services, professional services, or public improvements.
   AFFECTED PERSON/OFFEROR. A person whose ability to participate in a
procurement is adversely impaired by a city decision.
   ARCHITECTURAL, ENGINEERING, AND LAND SURVEYING SERVICES. Professional
services performed by an architect, engineer, or land surveyor and includes
architectural, engineering, or land surveying services, separately or any
combination thereof, as appropriate within the context of a section of this
model.
   AWARD. The decision to enter into a contract or purchase order with a
specific offeror.
   BID. A response to an invitation to bid.
   BIDDER. A person who submits a bid in response to an invitation to bid.
   BUSINESS WITH WHICH A CITY EMPLOYEE IS ASSOCIATED. Any business in which a
city employee is a director, officer, owner, or employee, or any corporation in
which a city employee owns or has owned 10% or more of any class of stock at
any point in the preceding calendar year.
   CITY. The City of Dunes City, Oregon, a municipal corporation and a
contracting and purchasing agency.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the City Council to the position
of City Administrator.
   CLOSING. The date and time announced in a solicitation document as the
deadline for submitting bids or offers.
   CONTRACT. See PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   CONTRACT PRICE. As the context requires:
      (1)   The maximum payment that the city will make under a contract if the
contractor fully performs under the contract, including bonuses, incentives,
and contingency amounts;
      (2)   The maximum not-to-exceed payment specified in the contract; or
      (3)   The unit prices set forth in the contract.
   CONTRACTING AGENCY. A public body authorized by law to conduct a
procurement.
   CONTRACTOR. The person who enters into a contract with the city.
   COOPERATIVE PROCUREMENT. A procurement conducted by, or on behalf of, one or
more contracting agencies.
   DAYS. Calendar days.
   EMERGENCY. Involves circumstances that:
      (1)   Could not have been reasonably foreseen;
      (2)   Create a substantial risk of loss, damage, or interruption of
services or a substantial threat to property, public health, welfare, or
safety; and
      (3)   Require prompt execution of a contract or amendment in order to
remedy the condition.
   FINDINGS. The justification for a conclusion. If the justification relates
to a public improvement contract, FINDINGS may be based on information that
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Operational, budget, and financial data;
      (2)   Public benefits;
      (3)   Value engineering;
      (4)   Specialized expertise;
      (5)   Market conditions;
      (6)   Technical complexity; and
      (7)   Funding sources.
   GOODS AND/OR SERVICES. Supplies, equipment, materials, and services, other
than personal services, and any personal property, including any tangible,
intangible, and intellectual property and rights and licenses in relation
thereto. The term includes combinations of any of the items identified in the
definition.
   GRANT. An agreement under which:
      (1)   The city receives moneys, property, or other assistance, including,
but not limited to, federal assistance that is characterized as a GRANT by
federal law or regulation, loans, loan guarantees, credit enhancements, gifts,
bequests, commodities, or other assets.
         (a)   The assistance received by the city is from a grantor for the
purpose of supporting or stimulating a program or activity of the city.
         (b)   No substantial involvement by the grantor is anticipated in the
program or activity other than involvement associated with monitoring
compliance with GRANT conditions.
      (2)   The city provides moneys, property, or other assistance, including,
but not limited to, federal assistance that is characterized as a GRANT by
federal law or regulation, loans, loan guarantees, credit enhancements, gifts,
bequests, commodities, or other assets.
         (a)   The assistance is given to the recipient for the purpose of
supporting or stimulating a program or activity of the recipient.
         (b)   No substantial involvement by the city is anticipated in the
program or activity other than involvement associated with monitoring
compliance with GRANT conditions.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. An employee’s spouse and parents thereof; children,
and spouses thereof; parents, and spouses thereof; siblings, and spouses
thereof; grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; and domestic
partner, and parents thereof.
   OFFER. A bid, proposal, quote, or other response to a solicitation document.
   OFFEROR. A person who submits an offer.
   OPENING. The date, time, and place announced in the solicitation document
for the public opening of written sealed offers.
   ORIGINAL CONTRACT. The initial contract or price agreement solicited and
awarded during a cooperative procurement by an administering agency.
   PURCHASING AGENCY. An agency that procures goods or services, personal
services, or public improvements from a contractor based on the original
contract established by an administering agency in a cooperative procurement.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, business trust, estate trust,
partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture,
governmental agency, public body, public corporation, or other legal or
commercial entity, and any other person or entity with legal capacity to
contract.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Services, other than professional services, that require
specialized skill, knowledge, and resources in the application of technical or
scientific expertise, or in the exercise of professional, artistic, or
management discretion or judgment.
      (1)   Qualifications and performance history, expertise, and creativity,
and the ability to exercise sound professional judgment are typically the
primary considerations when selecting a PERSONAL SERVICES contractor, with
price being secondary.
      (2)   PERSONAL SERVICES contracts include, but are not limited to, the
following classes of contracts:
         (a)   Contracts for services performed in a professional capacity,
including but not limited to, services of an accountant, attorney, auditor,
court reporter, information technology consultant, physician, or broadcaster;
         (b)   Contacts for professional or expert witnesses or consultants to
provide services or testimony relating to existing or potential litigation or
legal matters in which the city is or may become
interested;
         (c)   Contracts for services as an artist in the performing or fine
arts, including any person identified as a photographer, film maker, actor,
director, painter, weaver, or sculptor;
         (d)   Contracts for services that are specialized, creative or
research oriented; and/or
         (e)   Contracts for services as a consultant.
   PRICE AGREEMENT. A contract for the procurement of goods or services at a
set price which has:
      (1)   No guarantee of a minimum or maximum purchase; or
      (2)   An initial order or minimum purchase combined with a continuing
contractor obligation to provide goods or services with no guarantee of any
minimum or maximum additional purchase.
   PROCUREMENT. The act of purchasing, leasing, renting, or otherwise acquiring
goods or services, personal services, or professional services. It includes
each function and procedure undertaken or required to be undertaken to enter
into a contract, administer a contract, and obtain the performance of a
contract for goods or services, personal services, or professional services.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Architectural, engineering, land surveying,
photogrammetric, transportation planning, or related services, or any
combination of these services, provided by a consultant.
   PROPOSAL. A response to a request for proposals.
   PROPOSER. A person that submits a proposal in response to a request for
proposals.
   PROVIDER. As the context requires, a supplier of goods or services, personal
services, or professional services.
   PUBLIC CONTRACT. A sale or other disposal, or a purchase, lease, rental, or
other acquisition, by the city of personal property, goods, or services,
including personal services, professional services, public improvements, public
works, minor alterations, or ordinary repair or maintenance necessary to
preserve a public improvement. It does not include GRANTS.
   PUBLIC CONTRACTING. Procurement activities relating to obtaining, modifying,
or administering contracts or price agreements.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. A project for construction, reconstruction, or major
renovation on real property, by or for the city. It does not include projects
for which no funds of the city are directly or indirectly used, except for
participation that is incidental or related primarily to project design or
inspection; or emergency work, minor alterations, or ordinary repair or
maintenance necessary to preserve a PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACT. A contract for a public improvement. This does
not include a contract for emergency work, minor alterations, or ordinary
repair, or maintenance necessary to maintain a public improvement.
   RECYCLED PRODUCT. All materials, goods, and supplies, not less than 50% of
the total weight of which consists of secondary and post-consumer waste with
not less than 10% of its total weight consisting of post-consumer waste. It
includes any product that could have been disposed of as solid waste, having
completed its life cycle as a consumer item, but otherwise is refurbished for
reuse without substantial alteration of the product’s form.
   RELATED SERVICES. Personal services, other than architectural, engineering,
and land survey services, that are related to the planning, design,
engineering, or oversight of public improvement projects or components thereof,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Landscape architectural services;
      (2)   Facilities planning services;
      (3)   Energy planning services;
      (4)   Space planning services;
      (5)   Environmental impact studies;
      (6)   Hazardous substances or hazardous waste, or toxic substances
testing services;
      (7)   Wetland delineation studies;
      (8)   Wetland mitigation services;
      (9)   Native American studies;
      (10)   Historic research services;
      (11)   Endangered species studies;
      (12)   Rare plant studies;
      (13)   Biological services;
      (14)   Archaeological services;
      (15)   Cost estimating services;
      (16)   Appraising services;
      (17)   Material testing services;
      (18)   Mechanical system balancing services;
      (19)   Commissioning services;
      (20)   Project management services;
      (21)   Construction management services and owner’s representatives
service; and/or
      (22)   Land use planning services.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS. A solicitation document used for soliciting
proposals.
   REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS. A written document issued by the city describing
particular services to which potential contractors respond with a description
of their experience and qualifications that results in a list of potential
contractors who are qualified to perform those services, but which is not
intended to create a contract between a potential contractor on the list and
the city.
   REVENUE GENERATING AGREEMENTS. Contracts or agreements for services that
generate revenue and that are typically awarded to the offeror proposing the
most advantageous or highest monetary return.
   SCOPE. The range and attributes of the goods or services described in a
procurement document.
   SIGNED or SIGNATURE. Any mark, word, or symbol attached to or logically
associated with a document and executed or adopted by a person with the
authority and intent to be bound.
   SOLICITATION. As the context requires:
      (1)   A request for the purpose of soliciting offers, including an
invitation for bid, a request for proposal, a request for quotation, a request
for qualifications, or other similar documents;
      (2)   The process of notifying prospective offerors of a request for
offers; and/or
      (3)   The solicitation document.
   WORK. The furnishing of all materials, equipment, labor, and incidentals
necessary to successfully complete any individual item in a contract and
successful completion of all duties and obligations imposed by the contract.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Conventional paper documents, whether handwritten,
typewritten, or printed, in contrast to spoken words, including electronic
transmissions or facsimile documents when required by applicable law or
permitted by a solicitation document or contract.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.32 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   City Council as local Contract Review Board. The City Council is
designated as the local Contract Review Board of the city and has all the
rights, powers, and authority necessary to carry out the provisions of this
city purchasing policy, the Public Contracting Code, and/or the Model Rules.
   (B)   Application of Attorney General’s Model Rules of Procedure.
      (1)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 279A.065(6), the city has elected to establish
its own policy for public contracting and purchasing.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, the Model Rules do not apply to the
city.
   (C)   Inapplicability of city purchasing policy. This city purchasing policy
does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Contracts or agreements to which the public contracting code does
not apply;
      (2)   Contracts and intergovernmental and interstate agreements entered
into pursuant to O.R.S. Chapter 190;
      (3)   Grants;
      (4)   Acquisitions or disposals of real property or interests in real
property;
      (5)   Procurements from a State Corrections Enterprise Program;
      (6)   Contracts, agreements, or other documents entered into, issued, or
established in connection with:
         (a)   The incurring of debt, including any associated contracts,
agreements, or other documents, regardless of whether the obligations that the
contracts, agreements, or other documents establish are general, special, or
limited;
         (b)   The making of program loans and similar extensions or advance of
funds, aid, or assistance by the city to a public or private person for the
purpose of carrying out, promoting, or sustaining activities or programs
authorized by law other than for the construction of public works or public
improvements;
         (c)   The investment of funds by the city as authorized by law; or
         (d)   Banking, money management, or other predominantly financial
transactions that, by their character, cannot practically be established under
the competitive contractor selection procedures, based upon the findings of the
City Administrator.
      (7)   Contracts for employee benefit plans;
      (8)   Contracts with newspapers and other publications for the placement
of advertisements or public notices;
      (9)   Contracts for items where the price is regulated and available from
a single source or limited number of sources;
      (10)   Insurance contracts;
      (11)   Revenue-generating agreements; and
      (12)   Federal agreements where applicable federal statutes and
regulations govern when federal funds are involved, and the federal statutes or
regulations conflict with any provision of the State Public Contracting Code or
this city purchasing policy, or require additional conditions in public
contracts not authorized by the State Public Contracting Code or this city
purchasing policy.
   (D)   Authority of City Administrator. For contracts and purchases covered
by this city purchasing policy, the City Administrator is authorized to:
      (1)   Award contracts and amendments without specific authorization by
the City Council whenever the contract amount is $25,000 or less and the
proposed expenditure is included in the current fiscal year budget;
      (2)   Execute contracts and amendments with specific authorization by the
City Council whenever the contract or amendment amount is greater than $25,000
and the proposed expenditure is included in the current fiscal year budget;
      (3)   (a)   As the purchasing agent for the city, the City Administrator
is authorized to:
            1.   Advertise for bids or proposals without specific authorization
from the City Council, when the proposed purchase is included within the
current fiscal year budget;
            2.   Advertise for bids or proposals when the proposed purchase is
not included within the current fiscal year budget after the City Council
approves the proposed budget transfer;
            3.   Purchase goods, services, and/or property without specific
authorization by the City Council whenever the amount is $25,000 or less and
the proposed expenditures are included in the current fiscal year budget; and
            4.   Purchase goods, services, and/or property with specific
authorization by the City Council whenever the amount is greater than $25,000
and the proposed expenditure is included in the current fiscal year budget.
         (b)   Purchases of any goods or services from city employees require
authorization of the City Council.
         (c)   Departments shall communicate purchase requirements to the City
Administrator and plan sufficiently in advance so that orders can be placed in
economical quantities.
      (4)   Delegate, in writing, the signature authority described in division
(D)(2) above and the purchasing powers described in division (D)(3) above. In
the absence of a written delegation to the contrary, and in the absence of the
City Administrator, the signature authority described in division (D)(2) above
and the purchasing powers described in division (D)(3) above are delegated in
order as follows:
         (a)   Mayor; and
         (b)   Council President.
      (5)   Adopt forms, procedures, computer software, and administrative
rules for all city purchases regardless of the amount.
         (a)   When adopting the forms, procedures, computer software, and/or
administrative rules, the City Administrator shall establish practices and
policies that:
            1.   Do not encourage favoritism or substantially diminish
competition; and
            2.   Allow the city to take advantage of the cost-saving benefits
of alternative contracting methods and practices.
         (b)   The city shall use these forms, procedures, computer software,
and administrative rules unless they conflict with the city purchasing policy.
   (E)   Favorable terms. Contracts and purchases shall be negotiated on the
most favorable terms in accordance with this city purchasing policy, other
adopted ordinances, and state and federal laws, policies, and procedures.
   (F)   Unauthorized contracts or purchases. Public contracts entered into or
purchases made as authorized herein shall be voidable at the sole discretion of
the city.
      (1)   The city may take appropriate action in response to execution of
contracts or purchases made contrary to this division (F).
      (2)   Such actions include, but are not limited to, providing educational
guidance, imposing disciplinary measures, and/or holding individuals personally
liable for such contracts or purchases.
   (G)   Purchasing from city employees or employees’ immediate family. No
contract shall be entered into with or purchase made from any city employee or
employee’s immediate family member, or any business with which the employee is
associated, unless:
      (1)   The contract or purchase is expressly authorized and approved by
the City Council; or
      (2)   The need for the contract or purchase occurs during a state of
emergency, and the City Administrator finds, in writing, that the acquisition
from the employee, employee’s immediate family member, or business with which
the employee is associated is the most expeditious means to eliminate the
threat to public health, safety, and welfare.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.33 PREFERENCES.
   (A)   Discretionary local preference. If the solicitation is in writing, the
City Administrator may provide a specified percentage preference of not more
than 10% for goods fabricated or processed entirely in the state or services
performed entirely in the state.
      (1)   When a preference is provided under this division (A), and more
than one offeror qualifies for the preference, the City Administrator may give
further preference to a qualifying offeror that resides in or is headquartered
in the state.
      (2)   The City Administrator may establish a preference percentage of 10%
or higher if the City Administrator makes a written determination that good
cause exists to establish the higher percentage, explains the reasons, and
provides evidence of good cause.
      (3)   The preference described in division (A)(2) above cannot be applied
to a contract for emergency work, minor alterations, and ordinary repairs or
maintenance of public improvements.
   (B)   Mandatory tie breaker preference. If offers are identical in price,
fitness, availability, and the quality is identical, and the city desires to
award the contract, the preferences provided in O.R.S. 279A.120 shall be
applied prior to the contract award.
   (C)   Reciprocal preference. Reciprocal preferences must be given when
evaluating bids, if applicable, under O.R.S. 279A.120.
   (D)   Preference for recycled materials and supplies. Preferences for
recycled goods shall be given when comparing goods, if applicable under O.R.S.
279A.125. The City Administrator shall adopt standards to determine if goods
are manufactured from recycled materials.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.34 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Public notice. Unless otherwise specifically provided by this city
purchasing policy, any notice required to be published by this city purchasing
policy may be published using any method the City Administrator deems
appropriate, including, but not limited to, mailing notice to persons that have
requested notice in writing, placing notice on the city’s website, or
publishing in state-wide trade or local publications.
   (B)   Procedure for competitive verbal quotes and proposals. Where allowed
by the city purchasing policy, solicitations by competitive quotes and
proposals shall be based on a description of the quantity of goods or services
to be provided, and may be solicited and received by phone, or facsimile or
email if authorized by the City Administrator.
      (1)   A good faith effort shall be made to contact at least three
potential providers.
      (2)   If three potential providers are not reasonably available, fewer
will suffice, provided the reasons three potential providers are not reasonably
available is documented as part of the procurement file.
   (C)   Procedure for informal written solicitation. Where allowed by this
city purchasing policy, informal written solicitations shall be made by a
solicitation document sent to not less than three prospective providers.
      (1)   The solicitation document shall request competitive price quotes or
competitive proposals, and include:
         (a)   The date, time, and place that price quotes or proposals are
due;
         (b)   A description or quantity of the good or service required;
         (c)   Any statement of period for which price quotes or proposals must
remain firm, irrevocable, valid, and binding on the offeror. If no time is
stated in the solicitation document, the period shall be 30 days;
         (d)   Any required contract terms or conditions; and
         (e)   Any required bid form or proposed format.
      (2)   Price quotes or proposals shall be received by the City
Administrator at the date, time, and place established in the solicitation
document.
         (a)   The City Administrator shall keep a written record of the
sources of the quotes or proposals.
         (b)   If three quotes or proposals are not reasonably available, fewer
shall suffice, but the City Administrator shall make a written record of the
effort made to obtain quotes or proposals as part of the procurement file.
   (D)   Procurement methods for professional services and public improvements.
The city shall apply the Public Contracting Code and the Model Rules when
procuring professional services, and public improvements and processing
protests thereof.
   (E)   Retroactive approval. RETROACTIVE APPROVAL OF A CONTRACT means the
award or execution of a contract where work was commenced without final award
or execution. The City Administrator may make a retroactive approval of a
contract only if the responsible employee submits a copy of the proposed
contract to the City Administrator, along with a written request for contract
retroactive approval, that contains:
      (1)   An explanation of the reason work was commenced before the contract
was finally awarded or executed;
      (2)   A description of steps being taken to prevent similar occurrences
in the future;
      (3)   Evidence that, but for the failure to finally award or execute the
contract, the employee complied with all other steps required to properly
select a contractor and negotiate the contract; and
      (4)   A proposed form of contract.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.35 SOURCE SELECTION METHODS.
   (A)   Small procurements. Contracts for or purchases of goods or services
with a contract price of $25,000 or less are SMALL PROCUREMENTS.
      (1)   Purchases less than $2,500. The City Administrator may use any
procurement method the City Administrator deems practical or convenient,
including direct negotiation or award, for small procurements of goods or
services with a contract price of less than $2,500.
      (2)   Purchases between $2,500 and $25,000. The City Administrator may
use competitive proposals and informal written solicitations for small
procurements of goods or services with a contract price between $2,500 and
$25,000.
      (3)   Negotiations. The City Administrator may negotiate with an offeror
to clarify competitive proposals or informal written proposals, or to make
modifications that will make the quote or proposal acceptable or more
advantageous to the city.
      (4)   Award. If a contract is awarded, the award shall be made to the
offeror whose proposal the City Administrator determines will best serve the
interests of the city, taking into account price as well as any other relevant
considerations, including, but not limited to, experience, expertise, product
functionality, suitability for a particular purpose, delivery, and contractor
responsibility.
      (5)   Amendments. Small procurement contracts may be amended if the
cumulative amendments do not increase the total contract price to more than 25%
of the original contract price.
      (6)   Public notice. No public notice of small procurements is required.
   (B)   Intermediate proposals. Contracts for goods or services with a
contract price greater than $25,000 and less than or equal to $250,000 are
INTERMEDIATE PROCUREMENTS.
      (1)   Informal written solicitation. Intermediate procurements shall be
by informal written solicitation.
      (2)   Negotiations. The City Administrator may negotiate with an offeror
to clarify an informal written solicitation, or to make modifications that will
make the quote, proposal, or solicitation acceptable or more advantageous to
the city.
      (3)   Award. If a contract is awarded, the award shall be made to the
offeror whose competitive quote, proposal, or informal written solicitation the
City Administrator determines will best serve the interests of the city, taking
into account price or any other relevant considerations, including, but not
limited to, experience, expertise, product functionality, suitability for a
particular purpose, delivery, and contractor responsibility.
      (4)   Amendments. Intermediate procurement contracts may be amended if
the cumulative amendments do not increase the total contract price by more than
25% of the original contract price.
      (5)   Public notice. Public notice is required for intermediate
procurements with a contract price equal to or exceeding $50,000.
   (C)   Large procurements. Contracts for goods or services with a contract
price greater than $250,000 are LARGE PROCUREMENTS.
      (1)   Competitive sealed bidding. The City Administrator may use
competitive sealed bidding as set forth in O.R.S. 279B.055, or competitive
sealed proposals as set forth in O.R.S. 279B.060.
      (2)   Procedures. When using either competitive sealed bidding or
competitive sealed proposals, the City Administrator shall follow the
applicable procedures set out in the Model Rules.
      (3)   Processing. The city shall apply the applicable procedure set out
in the Model Rules for processing protests of large procurements.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.36 PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Classifications of services as personal services.
      (1)   In addition to the classes of personal services contracts
identified in the definition of personal services contracts, the City
Administrator may classify additional specific types of services as personal
services. In determining whether a service is a personal service, the City
Administrator shall consider:
         (a)   Whether the work requires specialized skills, knowledge, and
resources in the application of technical or scientific expertise, or the
exercise of professional, artistic, or management discretion or judgment;
         (b)   Whether the city intends to rely on the contractor’s specialized
skills, knowledge, and expertise to accomplish the work; and
         (c)   Whether selecting a contractor primarily on the basis of
qualifications, rather than price, would most likely meet the city’s needs and
result in obtaining satisfactory contract performance and optimal value.
      (2)   A service shall not be classified as personal services for the
purposes of this city purchasing policy if:
         (a)   The work has traditionally been performed by contractors
selected primarily on the basis of price; or
         (b)   The services do not require specialized skills, knowledge, and
resources in the application of highly technical or scientific expertise, or
the exercise of professional, artistic, or management discretion or judgment.
   (B)   Requests for qualifications. At the City Administrator’s discretion, a
request for qualifications may be used to determine whether competition exists
to perform the needed personal services or to establish a non-binding list of
qualified contractors for individual negotiation, informal written
solicitations, or requests for proposals.
      (1)   A request for qualifications shall describe the particular type of
personal services that will be sought, the qualifications the contractor must
have to be considered, and the evaluation factors and their relative
importance.
      (2)   A request for qualifications may require information including, but
not limited to:
         (a)   The contractor’s particular capability to perform the required
personal services;
         (b)   The number of experienced personnel available to perform the
required personal services;
         (c)   The specific qualifications and experience of personnel;
         (d)   A list of similar personal services the contractor has
completed;
         (e)   References concerning past performance; and
         (f)   Any other information necessary to evaluate the contractor’s
qualifications.
      (3)   A voluntary or mandatory qualifications pre-submission meeting may
be held for all interested contractors to discuss the proposed personal
services. The request for qualifications shall include the date, time, and
location of the meeting.
      (4)   Unless the responses to a request for qualifications establish that
competition does not exist, the request for qualifications is canceled, or all
responses to the request for qualifications are rejected, and all respondents
who meet the qualifications set forth in the request for qualifications shall
receive notice of any required personal services and have an opportunity to
submit a proposal in response to request for proposals.
   (C)   Direct negotiations.
      (1)   Personal services may be procured through direct negotiations if:
         (a)   The contract price does not exceed $75,000 and the work is
within a budgetary appropriation or approved by the City Council;
         (b)   The confidential personal services, including special counsel or
professional or expert witnesses or consultants, are necessary to assist with
pending or threatened litigation or other legal matters in which the city may
have an interest; or
         (c)   The nature of the personal service is not project-driven but
requires an ongoing, long-term relationship of knowledge and trust.
      (2)   Personal services contracts procured by direct negotiation pursuant
to this section may be amended, provided the amendment is within the scope of
the original contract and the cumulative amount of the amendments does not
increase the total contract price by more than 25% over the original contract
price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work being performed and
it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another provider within the
timeframes needed to complete the work.
      (3)   No public notice of personal services contracts procured by direct
negotiations is required.
   (D)   Informal written solicitations. An informal written solicitation
process may be used for personal services when the contract price is less than
$125,000.
      (1)   An informal written solicitation shall solicit proposals from at
least three qualified providers. If the City Administrator determines three
qualified providers are not reasonably available, fewer shall suffice if the
reasons three providers are not reasonably available are documented in the
procurement file.
      (2)   The solicitation document shall include:
         (a)   The date, time, and place that proposals are due;
         (b)   A description of personal services sought, or the project to be
undertaken;
         (c)   Any statement of the time period for which proposals must remain
firm, irrevocable, valid, and binding on the offeror. If no time is stated in
the solicitation document, the period shall be 30 days;
         (d)   Any required contract terms or conditions; and
         (e)   Any required bid form or proposal format.
      (3)   Selection and ranking of proposals may be based on the following
criteria:
         (a)   Particular capability to perform the personal services required;
         (b)   Experienced staff available to perform the personal services
required, including the proposer’s recent, current, and projected workloads;
         (c)   Performance history;
         (d)   Approach and philosophy used in providing personal services;
         (e)   Fees or costs;
         (f)   Geographic proximity to the project or the area where the
services are to be performed; and
         (g)   Such other factors deemed appropriate, including a desire to
ensure an equitable distribution of work among highly qualified contractors.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall maintain written documentation of the
solicitation, including solicitation attempts, responses, and provider names
and addresses in the procurement file.
      (5)   Personal services contracts procured by informal written
solicitations pursuant to this section may be amended, provided the amendment
is within the scope of the original contract and the cumulative amount of the
amendments does not increase the total contract price by more than 25% over the
original contract price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work
being performed and it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another
provider within the timeframes needed to complete the work.
      (6)   No public notice of personal services contracts procured by
informal written solicitations pursuant to this section is required.
   (E)   Requests for proposals. A request for proposals shall be used to
procure personal services when the contract price is $125,000 or more, or the
complexity of the project requires the use of a formal competitive process to
determine whether a particular proposal is most advantageous to the city.
      (1)   Request for proposal. The request for proposal shall include:
         (a)   Notice of any pre-offer conference, including:
            1.   The time, date, and location;
            2.   Whether attendance at the pre-offer conference is mandatory or
voluntary; and
            3.   A provision that statements made by representatives of the
city at the pre-offer conference are not binding unless confirmed by written
addendum.
         (b)   The form and instructions for submission of proposals, including
the location where proposals must be submitted, the date and time by which
proposals must be received, and any other special information; for example,
whether proposals may be submitted by electronic means;
         (c)   The name and title of the person designated for the receipt of
proposals and the person designated as the contact person for the procurement,
if different;
         (d)   A date, time, and place that pre-qualification applications, if
any, must be filed and classes of work, if any, for which proposers must be
pre-qualified;
         (e)   A statement that the city may cancel the procurement or reject
any or all proposals;
         (f)   The date, time, and place of opening;
         (g)   The office where the request for proposals may be reviewed;
         (h)   A description of the personal services to be procured;
         (i)   The evaluation criteria;
         (j)   The anticipated schedule, deadlines, evaluation process, and
protest process;
         (k)   The form and amount of any proposal security deemed reasonable
and prudent by the City Administrator to protect the city’s interests;
         (l)   A description of the manner in which proposals will be
evaluated, including the relative importance of price and other evaluation
factors used to rate the proposals;
         (m)   If more than one tier of competitive evaluation will be used, a
description of the process under which the proposals will be evaluated in the
subsequent tiers;
         (n)   If contracts will be awarded to more than one personal services
contractor, an identification of the manner in which the city will determine
the number of contracts to be awarded, or that the manner will be left to the
city’s discretion at the time of award;
         (o)   If contracts will be awarded to more than one personal services
contractor, the criteria to be used to choose from the multiple contracts when
acquiring personal services shall be identified;
         (p)   All required contract terms and conditions, including the
statutorily required provisions in O.R.S. 279B.220, 279B.230, and 279B.235; and
         (q)   Any terms and conditions authorized for negotiation.
      (2)   Public notice. The City Administrator shall provide public notice
of a request for proposals for personal services.
         (a)   Public notice shall be given not less than 21 days prior to
closing for the request for proposals, unless the City Administrator determines
that a shorter interval is in the public’s interest, or a shorter interval will
not substantially affect competition.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall document the specific reasons for
the shorter public notice period in the procurement file.
      (3)   Amendments. Personal services contracts procured by requests for
proposals pursuant to this section may be amended, provided the amendment is
within the scope of the original contract and the cumulative amount of the
amendments does not increase the total contract price by more than 25% over the
original contract price; or the amendment is necessary to complete the work
being performed and it would be unreasonable or impracticable to seek another
provider within the timeframes needed to complete the work.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.37 ALTERNATIVE SOURCE SELECTION METHODS.
   (A)   Sole-source procurements. A contract may be awarded as a sole-source
procurement without competition pursuant to this section.
      (1)   Determination of sole source. Before a sole-source contract may be
awarded, the City Administrator shall make written findings that the goods or
services, personal services, or professional services are available from only
one source, based on one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   The efficient use of existing goods or services, personal
services, or professional services requires the acquisition of compatible goods
or services, personal services, or professional services that are available
from only one source;
         (b)   The goods or services, personal services, or professional
services are available from only one source and required for the exchange of
software or data with other public or private agencies;
         (c)   The goods or services, personal services, or professional
services are available from only one source, and are needed for use in a pilot
or an experimental project; or
         (d)   Other facts of circumstances exist that support the conclusion
that the goods or services, personal services, or professional services are
available from only one source.
      (2)   Negotiations. To the extent reasonably practical, contract terms
advantageous to the city shall be negotiated with the sole source provider.
      (3)   Notice. The City Administrator shall post notice of any
determination that the sole source selection method will be used on the city’s
website not less than ten days prior to the date a sole source
contract will be awarded. The notice shall describe the goods or services,
personal services, or professional services to be procured, identify the
prospective contractor and include the date and time when, and place where,
protests of the use of a sole source selection method must be filed.
   (B)   Special procurements. In its capacity as Contract Review Board for the
city, the City Council, upon its own initiative or upon request of the City
Administrator, may create special selection, evaluation, and award procedures
for, or may exempt from competition, the award of a specific contract or class
of contracts as provided in this section.
      (1)   Basis for approval. The approval of a special solicitation method
or exemption from competition must be based upon a record before the City
Council that contains the following:
         (a)   The nature of the contract or class of contracts for which the
special solicitation or exemption is requested;
         (b)   The estimated contract price or cost of the project, if
relevant;
         (c)   Findings to support the substantial cost savings, enhancement in
quality or performance, or other public benefit anticipated by the proposed
selection method or exemption from competitive solicitation;
         (d)   Findings to support the reason that approval of the request
would be unlikely to encourage favoritism or diminish competition for the
public contract or class of public contracts, or would otherwise substantially
promote the public interest in a manner that could not practicably be realized
by complying with the solicitation requirements that would otherwise be
applicable under these regulations;
         (e)   A description of the proposed alternative contracting methods to
be employed; and
         (f)   The estimated date by which it would be necessary to let the
contract(s).
      (2)   Determination. In making a determination regarding a special
selection method, the City Council may consider the type, cost, amount of the
contract or class of contracts, number of persons available to make offers, and
such other factors as it may deem appropriate.
      (3)   Hearing. The city shall approve the special solicitation or
exemption after a public hearing before the City Council.
         (a)   At the public hearing, the city shall offer an opportunity for
any interested party to appear and present comment.
         (b)   The City Council shall consider the findings and may approve the
exemption as proposed or as modified by the City Council after providing an
opportunity for public comment.
   (C)   Contracts. Subject to award at the City Administrator’s discretion,
the following classes of contracts may be awarded in any manner that the City
Administrator deems appropriate to the city’s needs, including by direct
appointment or purchase. Except where otherwise provided, the City
Administrator shall make a record of the method of award.
      (1)   Amendments. Contract amendments shall not be considered to be
separate contracts if made in accordance with the city purchasing policy.
      (2)   Copyrighted materials; library materials. Contracts for the
acquisition of materials entitled to copyright, including, but not limited to,
works or art and design, literature, and music, or materials even if not
entitled to copyright, purchased for use as library lending materials.
      (3)   Equipment repair. Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling,
provided the service or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be
determined without extensive preliminary dismantling or testing.
      (4)   Government-regulated items. Contracts for the purchase of items for
which prices or selection of suppliers are regulated by a governmental
authority.
      (5)   Non-owned property. Contracts or arrangements for the sale or other
disposal of abandoned property or other personal property not owned by the
city.
      (6)   Specialty goods for resale. Contracts for the purchase of specialty
goods by the city for resale to consumers.
      (7)   Sponsorship agreements. Sponsorship agreements, under which the
city receives a gift or donation in exchange for recognition of the donor.
      (8)   Structures. Contracts for the disposal of structures located on
city-owned property.
      (9)   Renewals. Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with their
terms are not considered to be newly issued contracts and are not subject to
competitive procurement procedures.
      (10)   Temporary extensions or renewals. Contracts for a single period of
one year or less, for the temporary extension or renewal of an expiring and
non-renewable, or recently expired, contract, other than a contract for public
improvements.
      (11)   Temporary use of city-owned property. The city may negotiate and
enter into a license, permit, or other contract for the temporary use of city-
owned property without using a competitive selection process if:
         (a)   The contract results from an unsolicited proposal to the city
based on the unique attributes of the property or the unique needs of the
proposer;
         (b)   The proposed use of the property is consistent with the city’s
use of the property and the public interest; and
         (c)   The city reserves the right to terminate the contract without
penalty, in the event that the city determines that the contract is no longer
consistent with the city’s present or planned use of the
property or the public interest.
      (12)   Used property. The City Administrator may contract for the
purchase of used property by negotiation if such property is suitable for the
city’s needs and can be purchased for a lower cost than substantially similar
new property.
         (a)   For this purpose, the cost of used property shall be based upon
the life-cycle cost of the property over the period for which the property will
be used by the city.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall record the findings that support
the purchase.
      (13)   Utilities. Contracts for the purchase of steam, power, heat,
water, telecommunications services, and other utilities.
      (14)   Conference/meeting room contracts. Contracts entered into for
meeting room rental, hotel rooms, and food and beverage, and incidental costs
related to conferences and city-sponsored workshops and trainings.
   (D)   Emergency procurements. When the City Administrator determines that
immediate execution of a contract within the City Administrator’s authority is
necessary to prevent substantial damage or injury to persons or property, the
City Administrator may execute the contract without competitive selection and
award or City Council approval, but, where time permits, competitive quotes
should be sought from at least three providers.
      (1)   When the City Administrator enters into an emergency contract, the
City Administrator shall, as soon as possible in light of the emergency
circumstances, document the nature of the emergency, the method used for
selection of the particular contractor, and the reason why the selection method
was deemed in the best interest of the city and the public.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall also notify the City Council of the
facts and circumstances surrounding the emergency execution of the contract.
   (E)   Cooperative procurement contracts. Cooperative procurements may be
made without competitive solicitation as provided in the Public Contracting
Code.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.38 SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   General methods. Surplus property may be disposed of by any of the
following methods upon a determination by the City Administrator that the
method of disposal is in the best interest of the city. Factors that may be
considered by the City Administrator include costs of sale, administrative
costs, and public health benefits to the city, and including the following:
      (1)   Governments. Without competition, by transfer or sale to another
government department or public agency;
      (2)   Auction. By publicly advertised auction to the highest bidder;
      (3)   Bids. By publicly advertised invitation to bid;
      (4)   Liquidation sale. By liquidation sale using a commercially
recognized third-party liquidator selected in accordance with this city
purchasing policy for the award of personal services contracts;
      (5)   Fixed price sale. The City Administrator may establish a selling
price based upon an independent appraisal or published schedule of values
generally accepted by the insurance industry, schedule, and advertise a sale
date, and sell to the first buyer meeting the sales terms;
      (6)   Trade-in. By trade-in, in conjunction with acquisition of other
price-based items under a competitive solicitation. This solicitation shall
require the offer to state the total value assigned to the surplus property to
be traded; AND
      (7)   Donation. By donation to any organization operating within or
providing a service to residents of the state, which is recognized by the
Internal Revenue Service as an organization described in I.R.C. § 501(c)(3),
being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), as amended.
   (B)   Disposal of property with minimal value.
      (1)   Surplus property which has a value of less than $500, or for which
the costs of sale are likely to exceed sale proceeds, may be disposed of by any
means determined to be cost effective, including by disposal as waste.
      (2)   The City Administrator making the disposal shall make a record of
the value of the item and the manner of disposal.
   (C)   Personal-use items.
      (1)   An item (or indivisible set) of specialized and personal use with a
current value of less than $100 may be sold to the employee, or retired or
terminated employee, for whose use it was purchased.
      (2)   These items may be sold for fair market value without bid and by a
process deemed most efficient by the City Administrator.
   (D)   Restriction on sale to city employees. City employees shall not
compete, as members of the public, for the purchase of publicly sold surplus
property.
   (E)   Conveyance to purchaser. Upon the consummation of a sale of surplus
personal property, the city shall make, execute, and deliver a bill of sale or
similar instrument signed on behalf of the city, conveying the property in
question to the purchaser and delivering possession, or the right to take
possession, of the property to the purchaser.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 33.39 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeal of debarment or pre-qualification decision.
      (1)   Right to hearing. Any person who has been debarred from competing
for the city’s contracts or for whom pre-qualification has been denied,
revoked, or revised may appeal the city’s decision to the City Council as
provided in this section.
      (2)   Filing of appeal. The person shall file a written notice of appeal
with the City Administrator within five business days after the prospective
contractor’s receipt of notice of the determination of debarment or denial of
pre-qualification.
      (3)   Notification of City Council. Immediately upon receipt of such
notice of appeal, the City Administrator shall notify the City Council of the
appeal.
      (4)   Hearing. The procedure for appeal from a debarment or denial,
revocation, or revision of pre-qualification shall be as follows:
         (a)   Promptly upon receipt of notice of appeal, the city shall notify
the appellant of the date, time, and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The City Council shall conduct the hearing and decide the appeal
within 30 days after receiving notice of the appeal from the City
Administrator; and
         (c)   At the hearing, the City Council shall reconsider, without
regard to the underlying decision giving rise to the appeal, the notice of
debarment, or the notice of denial, revocation, or revision of pre-
qualification, the standards of responsibility upon which the decision on pre-
qualification was based, or the reasons listed for debarment, and any evidence
provided by the parties.
      (5)   Decision. The City Council shall set forth in writing the reasons
for the decision.
      (6)   Costs. The City Council may allocate its costs for the hearing
between the appellant and the city.
         (a)   The allocation shall be based upon facts found by the City
Council and stated in the City Council’s decision that, in the City Council’s
opinion, warrant such allocation of costs.
         (b)   If the City Council does not allocate costs, the costs shall be
paid by the appellant if the decision is upheld, or by the city if the decision
is overturned.
         (c)   The decision of the City Council may be reviewed only upon a
petition in the Circuit Court of the county filed within 15 days after the date
of the City Council’s decision. The appeal must be filed in accordance with all
applicable state laws and trial court procedures.
   (B)   Protests and judicial review of special procurements. An affected
person may protest the request for approval of a special procurement as
provided in this section.
      (1)   Delivery; late protests. An affected person shall deliver a written
protest to the City Administrator within seven days after the first date of
public notice of a proposed special procurement, unless a different period is
provided in the public notice.
         (a)   The written protest shall include a fee in an amount established
in a schedule adopted by the City Administrator to cover the costs of
processing the protest.
         (b)   A protest submitted after the timeframe established under this
division (B)(1) is untimely and shall not be considered.
      (2)   Content of protest. The written protest shall include:
         (a)   Identification of the requested special procurement;
         (b)   A detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds for the
protest;
         (c)   Evidence or documentation supporting the grounds on which the
protest is based;
         (d)   A description of the resulting harm to the affected person; and
         (e)   The relief requested.
      (3)   Additional information. The City Administrator may allow any person
to respond to the protest in any manner the City Administrator deems
appropriate, by giving such persons written notice of the time and manner
whereby any response shall be delivered.
      (4)   City response. The City Administrator shall issue a written
disposition of the protest in a timely manner.
         (a)   If the City Administrator upholds the protest, in whole or in
part, the City Administrator, in the City Administrator’s sole discretion, may
implement the protest in the approval of the special procurement, deny the
request for approval of the special procurement, or revoke any approval of the
special procurement.
         (b)   If the City Administrator upholds the protest, in whole or in
part, the city shall refund the fee required to be delivered with the protest.
      (5)   Judicial review. An affected person may not seek judicial review of
a denial of a request for a special procurement.
         (a)   Before seeking judicial review of the approval of a special
procurement, an affected person shall exhaust all administrative remedies.
         (b)   Judicial review shall be in accordance with O.R.S. 279B.400.
   (C)   Protests and judicial review of sole-source procurements. An affected
person may protest the determination that goods or services, or a class of
goods or services, are available from only one source as provided in this
section.
      (1)   Delivery; late protests. An affected person shall deliver a written
protest to the City Administrator within seven days after the first date of
public notice of a proposed sole source procurement is placed on the city’s
website, unless a different period is provided in the public notice.
         (a)   The written protest shall include a fee in an amount established
in a schedule adopted by the City Administrator to cover the costs of
processing the protest.
         (b)   A protest submitted after the timeframe established under this
division (C) is untimely and shall not be considered.
      (2)   Content of protest. The written protest shall include:
         (a)   A detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds for the
protest;
         (b)   Evidence or documentation supporting the grounds on which the
protest is based;
         (c)   A description of the resulting harm to the affected person; and
         (d)   The relief requested.
      (3)   Additional information. The City Administrator may allow any person
to respond to the protest in any manner the City Administrator deems
appropriate by giving such person written notice of the time and manner whereby
any response shall be delivered.
      (4)   City Administrator response. The City Administrator shall issue a
written disposition of the protest in a timely manner.
         (a)   If the City Administrator upholds the protest, in whole or in
part, the proposed sole-source contract shall not be awarded.
         (b)   If the City Administrator upholds the protest, in whole or in
part, the city shall refund the fee required to be delivered with the protest.
      (5)   Judicial review. An affected person may not seek judicial review of
an election not to make a sole-source procurement.
         (a)   Before seeking judicial review of the approval of a sole-source
procurement, an affected person shall exhaust all administrative remedies.
         (b)   Judicial review shall be in accordance with O.R.S. 279B.400.
   (D)   Protests and judicial review of personal services procurements. An
affected person may protest the procurement of a personal services contract as
provided in this section.
      (1)   Delivery. Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation document,
the protest shall be in writing and delivered to the City Administrator.
         (a)   The written protest shall include a fee in an amount established
in a schedule adopted by the City Administrator to cover the costs of
processing the protest.
         (b)   Protests of the procurement of a specific contract as a personal
services contract shall be made prior to closing.
         (c)   Protests to the award or an intent to award a personal services
contract shall be made within seven days after issuance of the intent to award,
or if no notice of intent to award is given, within 48 hours after award.
         (d)   Protests submitted after the timeframe established under this
division (D) are untimely and shall not be considered.
      (2)   Contents of protest. The written protest shall:
         (a)   Specify all legal or factual grounds for the protest as follows.
            1.   A person may protest the solicitation on the grounds that the
contract is not a personal services contract or was otherwise in violation of
this city purchasing policy or applicable law. The protest shall identify the
specific provision of this city purchasing policy or applicable law that was
violated.
            2.   A person may protest award or intent to award for the reason
that:
               a.   All proposals ranked higher than the affected persons are
non-responsive;
               b.   The city failed to conduct the evaluation of proposals in
accordance with the criteria or processes described in the solicitation
document;
               c.   The city abused its discretion in rejecting the affected
person’s proposal as non-responsive; or
               d.   The evaluation of proposals or the subsequent determination
of award is otherwise in violation of this city purchasing policy or applicable
law.
            3.   The protest shall identify the specific provision of this city
purchasing policy or applicable law that was violated by the city’s evaluation
or award.
         (b)   Include evidence or supporting documentation that supports the
grounds on which the protest is based;
         (c)   A description of the resulting harm to the affected person; and
         (d)   The relief requested.
      (3)   Additional information. The City Administrator may allow any person
to respond to the protest in any manner the City Administrator deems
appropriate by giving such person written notice of the time and manner whereby
any response shall be delivered.
      (4)   City Administrator response. The City Administrator shall issue a
written disposition of the protest in a timely manner.
         (a)   If the City Administrator upholds the protest, in whole or in
part, the proposed personal services contract procurement shall be cancelled,
or the contract shall not be awarded, as the case may be.
         (b)   If the City Administrator upholds the protest, in whole or in
part, the city shall refund the fee required to be delivered with the protest.
      (5)   Judicial review. Before seeking judicial review, an affected person
shall exhaust all administrative remedies. Judicial review shall be in
accordance with O.R.S. 279B.420.
   (E)   Protests of cooperative procurements. Protests of the cooperative
procurement process, contents of a solicitation document, or award may be filed
with the city only if the city is the administering agency and under the
applicable procedure described herein.
(Res. 9, passed 8-21-2024)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
Initiative and Referendum
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Purpose
   
34.03   Initiative and referendum
   
34.04   Prospective petition
   
34.05   Ballot title
   
34.06   Petition form
   
34.07   Petition signatures
   
34.08   Petition certification
   
34.09   Petition presentation to Council
   
34.10   Petition submission to electors
   
34.11   Election date
   
34.12   Ballot designation and numbering
   
34.13   Election notice
   
34.14   Election returns
   
34.15   Election results proclamation
   
34.16   Effective date of measures
   
34.17   Conflicting measures
   
34.18   Prohibited acts
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Elections, see Charter
Chapter VI
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ELECTIONS OFFICER. The City Recorder for Dunes City, Oregon.
   ELECTOR. A person who is qualified to vote in the city.
   EMERGENCY ELECTION. An election held as provided by O.R.S. 221.230(2) when
the Council finds that to avoid extraordinary hardship to the community it is
necessary to hold an election sooner than the next available election date
specified in O.R.S. 221.230(1).
   MEASURE. A legislative enactment by the Council that is not necessary for
the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, and safety; a part of
such enactment; or a proposed legislative enactment for the city. The term
includes a municipal ordinance, a Charter amendment, or any other legislative
enactment within the power of the city to adopt.
   PETITION. An initiative or referendum petition for ordering a measure to be
submitted to the electors.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION. The information, except ballot title information,
signatures, and other identification of petition signers, required to be
contained in a completed petition.
   REGULAR ELECTION. A city election held at the same time as a primary or
general biennial election for election of state and county officers.
   SPECIAL ELECTION. An election held on a date specified in O.R.S. 221.230(1)
that is not a regular election.
   WRITE. To write, type, or print.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.02 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides a complete procedure for the electors to exercise
initiative and referendum powers.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.03 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   (A)   Initiative. An initiative measure shall be proposed by filing with the
City Elections Officer a completed petition that meets the requirements of this
subchapter and orders the measure to be submitted to the electors.
   (B)   Referendum.
      (1)   Methods. A measure shall be referred by:
         (a)   Referral by petition. Filing with the City Elections Officer a
completed referendum petition that meets the requirements of this subchapter;
or
         (b)   Referral by Council. Submission of the measure to the electors
by the Council.
      (2)   Time limits.
         (a)   Referral by petition. A completed referendum petition for a
measure, including the required signatures, must be filed with the City
Elections Officer within 30 days after the Council enacts the measure.
         (b)   Referral by Council. The Council may refer a measure only at the
session at which it enacts the measure.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.04 PROSPECTIVE PETITION.
   (A)   (1)   Form. A prospective petition shall be in the form prescribed by
the Secretary of State.
      (2)   Submission for review. Prior to its circulation, a copy of the
prospective petition shall be deposited with the City Elections Officer with a
correct copy of the measure and a signed statement on the face of the petition
stating the name and address of the person or persons, not to exceed three,
under whose authority and sponsorship the petition was prepared and is to be
circulated or, if the sponsor is an organization, its name and address and the
name and address of each of the principal officers of the organization.
   (B)   Elections Officer review. When a copy of a prospective petition is
deposited with the City Elections Officer, the Officer shall:
      (1)   Check the form for compliance with division (A) above;
      (2)   Advise the person depositing it whether it complies with division
(A) above and, if it does not, how to make it comply;
      (3)   Provide a sample petition form prescribed by the Secretary of
State, if one has not already been obtained; and
      (4)   Stamp the date and time on the prospective petition, if it complies
with division (A) above, and send a copy to the City Attorney for preparation
of the ballot title.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.05 BALLOT TITLE.
   (A)   Preparation.
      (1)   The ballot title for a measure ordered by the Council or proposed
to be ordered by petition shall be prepared and in the hands of the City
Elections Officer within five working days after the Council orders the
submission or after a copy of the prospective petition is deposited with the
Officer.
      (2)   When the Council orders submission of a measure to the electors or
when a prospective petition is deposited with the City Elections Officer, the
Officer shall send a copy of the measure to the City Attorney, who shall
prepare the ballot title and return it to the Officer. If the city has no
attorney or the City Attorney is unable to prepare the ballot title within the
time required, the Officer shall prepare the ballot title.
   (B)   Captions and statements. The ballot title shall consist of:
      (1)   A caption not exceeding ten words which identifies the subject
matter of the measure;
      (2)   A question not exceeding 20 words that plainly states the purpose
of the measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, not exceeding 175 words, that
summarizes the measure.
   (C)   Ballot title appeals. An elector who is dissatisfied with the ballot
title may, within five days after it is prepared and deposited with the City
Elections Officer, appeal to the Council by a written appeal deposited with the
Officer asking for a different ballot title for the measure and stating why the
title is unsatisfactory. Within five business days after deposit of the appeal
with the Officer, the Council shall provide the appellant a hearing and either
approve the title or prescribe another ballot title for the measure.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.06 PETITION FORM.
   Prior to circulation, a petition must:
   (A)   Be in the form prescribed by the Secretary of State; a sample of the
form is available in the office of the City Elections Officer;
   (B)   Contain the name and address of the sponsor or sponsors of the
petition; and
   (C)   Have written in the foot margin of each signature sheet and on the
cover:
      (1)   Initiative petition. On an initiative petition, the caption that is
part of the ballot title. The cover sheet shall contain the entire ballot
title; or
      (2)   Referendum petition. On a referendum petition, the number and
title, if any, of the measure to be referred and the date it was enacted by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.07 PETITION SIGNATURES.
   (A)   Number of signatures.
      (1)   Initiative petition. The number of signatures required for an
initiative petition is 15% of the number of votes cast for all candidates for
Mayor at the election for the office of Mayor immediately preceding the deposit
of the prospective petition with the City Elections Officer.
      (2)   Referendum petition. The number of signatures required for a
referendum petition is 10% of the number of votes cast for all candidates for
Mayor at the election for the office of Mayor immediately preceding the deposit
of the prospective petition with the City Elections Officer.
   (B)   Attachment of measure to signature sheet. A signature on a petition
sheet shall not be counted unless a copy of the measure to which the petition
refers is attached to the sheet at the time of signing and filing.
   (C)   Signature limit per page. Only the first 20 names on a page of a
petition shall be considered in computing the number of valid signatures on the
petition.
   (D)   Verification of signatures by circulator. A signature on a petition
sheet shall not be counted unless the person who circulated the sheet verifies,
by a signed statement on its face, that the individuals signed the sheet in the
presence of the circulator and the circulator believes that each individual who
signed is a qualified elector.
   (E)   Time limit for submission. No signature upon an initiative petition
shall be counted unless a completed petition is offered for filing with the
City Elections Officer within 100 days of the date of the signature.
   (F)   Removal of signatures. After a petition is submitted for signature
verification, no elector who signed the petition may remove the signature of
the elector from the petition.
(Prior Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.08 PETITION CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Within ten days after a petition is offered for filing with the City
Elections Officer, the Officer shall verify the number and genuineness of the
signatures and the voting qualifications of the persons who signed the petition
by reference to the registration books in the office of the County Clerk.
   (B)   If a sufficient number of electors signed the petition, the Officer
shall certify and file the petition.
   (C)   If the Officer determines that there is an insufficient number of
signatures, the petition shall be returned to the person who offered the
petition for filing.
(Prior Code, § 34.08) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.09 PETITION PRESENTATION TO COUNCIL.
   At the next regular meeting of the Council after the proposal of a completed
initiative measure, the City Elections Officer shall present the measure to the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 34.09) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.10 PETITION SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   (A)   Initiative. The City Elections Officer shall cause a Charter or
Charter amendment proposed by initiative, and any other initiative measure not
adopted within 30 days after its filing, to be submitted to the electors at the
time provided by §
34.11.
   (B)   Referendum. The City Elections Officer shall cause a referred measure
to be submitted to the electors at the time fixed by section §
34.11.
(Prior Code, § 34.10) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.11 ELECTION DATE.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (B) below or unless an earlier special
election is approved by the Council, the time for voting on a measure shall be
the next available regular election date more than 90 days after the
verification and filing of a petition by the City Elections Officer.
   (B)   The Council may call an emergency election for a measure and set the
date for it as provided by O.R.S. 221.230.
(Prior Code, § 34.11) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.12 BALLOT DESIGNATION AND NUMBERING.
   Measures shall appear on a ballot by ballot title only, and initiative
measures shall be distinguished from referred measures. The sequence of
measures to be voted on shall be the sequence in which the respective measures
are ordered to be submitted to the electors, with the first measure to be
numbered “51” in numerals, and the succeeding measures to be numbered
consecutively “52,” “53,” “54,” and so on.
(Prior Code, § 34.12) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.13 ELECTION NOTICE.
   (A)   Generally. The City Elections Officer shall give notice of all
elections in accordance with the requirements of the City Charter.
   (B)   To County Clerk. When a measure is to be voted on at an election, the
City Elections Officer shall furnish a certified copy of the ballot title and
the number of each measure to be voted on to the County Clerk in accordance
with the time limits established by state law.
(Prior Code, § 34.13) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
Charter reference:
   Election notice, see Charter §§
23 and
24
§ 34.14 ELECTION RETURNS.
   The votes on a measure shall be counted, canvassed, and returned by the
County Clerk as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.14) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
Charter reference:
   Elections; canvass of returns, see Charter §
26
§ 34.15 ELECTION RESULTS PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   Immediately after completion of the canvass of the votes on a measure,
the Mayor shall issue a proclamation:
      (1)   Stating the vote on the measure;
      (2)   Declaring whether the vote shows a majority to be in favor of it;
and
      (3)   If a majority of electors favor the measure, declaring it to be
effective from the date of the vote.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be filed with the measure.
(Prior Code, § 34.15) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF MEASURES.
   (A)   A measure submitted to the electors shall take effect when approved by
a majority of the electors voting on it, unless it specifies a later effective
date.
   (B)   A measure adopted by the Council but subject to a pending referendum
for which a completed petition has been timely filed shall have no effect
unless and until it is approved by a majority of the electors voting upon it.
(Prior Code, § 34.16) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.17 CONFLICTING MEASURES.
   When conflicting measures are approved by the electors at an election, the
one receiving the greater number of affirmative votes shall be paramount.
(Prior Code, § 34.17) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 34.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person other than a registered elector shall sign a petition.
   (B)   No person shall sign a petition with a name not his or her own.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly sign a petition more than once.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly circulate, file, or attempt to file with the
Elections Officer a petition that contains a signature signed in violation of
this subchapter.
   (E)   No person shall procure or attempt to procure a signature on a
petition by fraud.
   (F)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement concerning a
petition.
   (G)   No person shall make a document required or provided for by this
subchapter that contains a false statement.
   (H)   No officer shall wilfully violate a provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.18) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of a provision of §
34.18 is punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 34.99) (Ord. 103, passed 12-11-1986)
CHAPTER 35: LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Improvement initiation
   
35.03   Improvement hearing
   
35.04   Improvement districts
   
35.05   Improvement construction
   
35.06   Improvement costs and expenses
   
35.07   Assessment methods; alternative financing methods
   
35.08   Assessment procedure
   
35.09   Assessment notice
   
35.10   Assessment installment-payment application
   
35.11   Filing of Council measures with county
   
35.12   Liens, interest, and foreclosure
   
35.13   Assessment errors
   
35.14   Assessment increases
   
35.15   Assessment credits and rebates
   
35.16   Abandonment of improvement procedures
   
35.17   Procedural errors
   
35.18   Reassessments
   
35.19   Remedies
Charter reference:
   Land Development Code, see
Chapter 155
   Public improvements, see Charter Chapter IX
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT. Includes:
      (1)   The grading, graveling, paving, or other surfacing of any street,
or the opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing of the
grade, or constructing of any street;
      (2)   The construction or reconstruction of sidewalks;
      (3)   The installation of ornamental street lights;
      (4)   The installation of underground wiring or related equipment;
      (5)   The reconstruction or repair of any street improvement mentioned in
this definition; and/or
      (6)   Any other LOCAL IMPROVEMENT, as provided in O.R.S. 223.387, for
which an assessment may be made on the property specially benefitted.
   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT. The property which is to be assessed for the
cost or part of the cost of a local improvement, together with the property on
which the local improvement is located.
   LOT. A lot, block, or parcel of land.
   OWNER. The owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of
real property of record, as shown on the last available complete assessment
roll in the office of the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.02 IMPROVEMENT INITIATION.
   (A)   If the Council considers it necessary to require that improvements be
made and paid for in whole or in part by special assessment, or if the owners
of three-fourths of the property to benefit specially from an improvement
request by written petition that the Council make a local improvement, the
Council shall declare by resolution that it intends to make the local
improvement.
   (B)   The improvement resolution shall describe the general nature,
location, and extent of the proposed local improvement and of the proposed
local improvement district, declare the Council’s intent to make the
improvement, indicate the method of assessment to be used to arrive at a fair
apportionment of the whole or any portion of the cost of the improvement to the
properties specially benefitted, set a public hearing on the improvement, and
direct that notice be given of the proposed improvement and of the public
hearing.
   (C)   (1)   The improvement resolution may include alternative proposals
relating to a proposed local improvement.
      (2)   However, all of the information required for a particular local
improvement shall be included for each alternative proposal.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.03 IMPROVEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   After adoption of the improvement resolution, the Recorder shall
cause notice of the proposed improvement and of the public hearing to be given
by one publication not less than ten days prior to the public hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city, and by mailing copies of the
notice by registered or certified mail to the owner of a lot affected by the
proposed improvement, and by posting copies of the notice conspicuously within
the limits of the proposed local improvement district.
      (2)   The notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   A general description of the proposed local improvement and the
property to be specially benefitted. The description of property need not be by
metes and bounds, but shall be such that an average person can determine from
it the general location of the property;
         (b)   An estimate of the total cost of the improvement and the portion
anticipated to be paid for by special assessments;
         (c)   The time and place of the public hearing;
         (d)   A statement of a place where preliminary project design and
other additional information concerning the improvement is available to the
public;
         (e)   A statement that action on any proposed public improvement,
except a sidewalk or except an improvement unanimously declared by the Council
to be needed at once because of an emergency, shall be suspended for six months
upon a remonstrance thereto by the owners of two-thirds of the land to be
specially assessed therefor; and that OWNER shall mean the record holder of
legal title, or, where land is being purchased under a land sale contract
recorded or verified to the Recorder in writing by the record holder of legal
title to the land, the purchaser shall be deemed the OWNER; and/or
         (f)   Any other information the Council may direct to be included.
      (3)   Any mistake, error, omission, or failure with respect to the
mailing of notice shall not be jurisdictional or invalidate the local
improvement proceedings.
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   At the time of the public hearing, the Council shall hear and
consider testimony, both oral and written, on the proposed local improvement
and may continue the hearing as it deems necessary. After the hearing, the
Council may order the local improvement to be made. If the Council orders the
improvement, it shall, within 90 days after the date of the hearing, provide by
resolution for the establishment of the local improvement district and the
construction of the improvement.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the fact that the proposed improvement was
petitioned for by three-fourths of the benefitted property owners, the Council
may refuse to proceed with the improvement if it finds the proposed improvement
is untimely or not in the best interest of the city.
      (3)   At the public hearing, the Council may direct a modification of the
proposed local improvement by revising the scope of the improvement, by
reducing or enlarging the local improvement district which it deems will be
benefitted by the improvement, or by making other modifications as it finds
reasonable. If the Council modifies the scope of the improvement so that
assessment is likely to be increased substantially on one or more lots, if the
Council enlarges the local improvement district, or if the Council causes a
substantial change in any of the particulars contained in the improvement
resolution, a new improvement resolution shall be adopted, new estimates made,
and new notices mailed to the owners within the proposed local improvement
district. However, no new publication will be required.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.04 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.
   The Council, by resolution, shall provide for the establishment of the local
improvement district and the making of the local improvement in substantial
conformity with the proposal set forth in the initiating resolution.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.05 IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Manner of doing work. The local improvement may be made in whole or in
part by the city, by another governmental agency, by contract, or by any
combination of the above.
   (B)   Construction by contract. The Council may direct the Recorder to
advertise for bids for construction of all or part of the improvement project.
If part of the improvement work is to be done under contract, the Council shall
proceed in accordance with procedures of state law for public contracting.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.06 IMPROVEMENT COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   The costs and expenses of local improvements which may be assessed against
the property specially benefitted by the improvement shall include the costs of
construction and installation of the improvement; advertising, legal,
administrative, engineering, and assessment costs; financing costs, including
interest charges; the costs of any necessary property, right-of-way, or
easement acquisition and condemnation proceedings; and any other necessary
expenses.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.07 ASSESSMENT METHODS; ALTERNATIVE FINANCING METHODS.
   (A)   The Council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs of any
local improvement, may:
      (1)   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of the
local improvement district consistent with the benefits derived;
      (2)   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed as is just
and reasonable between the properties determined to be specially benefitted;
and/or
      (3)   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of the costs of a
local improvement if, in the opinion of the Council, the topographical or
physical conditions, or unusual or excessive public travel or use, or other
characteristic of the work involved, warrants only a partial payment or no
payment by the benefitted property of the costs of the local improvement.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter precludes the Council from using
any other available means of financing local improvements, including federal or
state grants-in-aid, water or sewer fees or charges, revenue or general
obligation bonds, or any other legal means of financing. If such other means of
financing local improvements are used, the Council may, in its discretion, levy
special assessments, according to the benefits derived, to cover any remaining
part of the costs of the local improvement.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.08 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Proposed assessment. When the estimated cost of an authorized local
improvement has been ascertained on the basis of the city’s estimate of costs,
the award of a contract, or any other basis acceptable to the Council, or after
the work has been completed and the actual cost has been determined, the
Recorder, or such other person as the Council may direct, shall prepare the
proposed assessment to the respective lots within the local improvement
district, file it in the office of the Recorder, and submit it to the Council.
The submission may be in the form of a proposed resolution.
   (B)   Notice. Upon receipt of the proposed assessments, the Council shall,
after any modifications, adopt a resolution directing notice of the proposed
assessments to be mailed or personally delivered to the owners or reputed
owners of the lots proposed to be assessed. The notice shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the owner or reputed owner, the description of the
property assessed, the total estimated or actual project cost assessed against
benefitted property, and the amount of the assessment against the described
property;
      (2)   A date and time by which written objections to the proposed
assessment, stating specifically the grounds for objection, must be received,
and the time and the date of a public hearing at which the Council will
consider any objections; and
      (3)   A statement that the assessment in the notice, as it may be
modified by the Council, will be levied by the Council after the hearing and
will thereafter be charged against the property and will be immediately payable
in full or in installments, if applicable.
   (C)   Supplementary notice. Supplementary notice of the proposed assessment
and the public hearing on the assessment may be published or posted by the
Recorder, in a form and content to be determined by the Recorder.
   (D)   Hearing.
      (1)   The Council shall hold the public hearing on the proposed
assessments to consider written objections and may adopt, correct, modify, or
revise the proposed assessments.
      (2)   The Council shall determine the amount of assessment to be charged
against each lot in the district according to the special and peculiar benefits
accruing from the improvement, and shall, by ordinance, spread the assessments.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.09 ASSESSMENT NOTICE.
   (A)   Within ten days after the effective date of the ordinance levying the
assessments, the Recorder shall send, by registered or certified mail to the
owner of the assessed property, a notice containing the following information:
      (1)   The date of the ordinance levying the assessment, the name of the
owner of the property assessed, the amount of the specific assessment, and a
description of the property assessed;
      (2)   A statement that an application may be filed to pay the assessment
in installments in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (3)   A statement that the entire amount of the assessment, less any part
for which application to pay in installments is made, is due within 30 days of
the date of the letter and, if unpaid on that date, will accrue interest and
subject the property to foreclosure.
   (B)   Supplementary notice of assessment may be published or posted by the
Recorder in a form and content to be determined by the Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 35.09) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.10 ASSESSMENT INSTALLMENT-PAYMENT APPLICATION.
   The Bancroft Bonding Act (O.R.S. 223.205 through 223.295) shall apply to
assessments levied in accordance with this subchapter. Unless otherwise
provided in a particular assessment ordinance, the owner of any property
assessed for a local improvement in accordance with this subchapter in the sum
of $25 or more, at any time within 30 days after notice of the assessment is
first mailed (or within such time as the Council may, from time to time,
establish), may file with the Recorder a written application to pay the whole
of the assessment in 20 semi-annual installments, together with interest at the
current market rate, or, if any part of the assessment has been paid, the
unpaid balance of the assessments in such installments with such interest.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.11 FILING OF COUNCIL MEASURES WITH COUNTY.
   The Recorder shall file copies of the resolution establishing a local
improvement district and the assessment ordinance with the Director of Records
and Elections of the county. However, failure to file the information shall not
invalidate or affect any proceedings in connection with the local improvement
district and shall not impose any liability on the city, the Recorder, or any
official, officer, or employee of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.12 LIENS, INTEREST, AND FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Lien records and foreclosure proceedings.
      (1)   After passage of the assessment ordinance by the Council, the
Recorder shall enter in the city lien docket a statement of the amounts
assessed on each particular lot or portion thereof, together with a description
of the improvement, the name of the owners, and the date of the assessment
ordinance. Upon entry in the lien docket, the amount entered is a lien and
charge on the respective lots, or portions thereof, which have been assessed
for the improvement.
      (2)   All assessment liens of the city shall be superior and prior to all
other liens or encumbrances on property insofar as the laws of the state
permit.
      (3)   Thirty days after the date of the letter notifying the owner of the
assessment ordinance, interest shall be charged, at the current legal rate of
interest, on all amounts not paid, and the city may foreclose or enforce
collection of assessment liens in the manner provided by state law.
      (4)   The city may enter a bid for the property being offered at a
foreclosure sale. The city bid shall be prior to all bids except those made by
persons who would be entitled, under state law, to redeem the property.
   (B)   Segregation of liens for transferred property.
      (1)   When the ownership of any portion of a tract of real property, less
than the entire tract, is transferred, any lien against the property in favor
of the city shall, upon request of the owner of any portion of the tract, be
segregated as provided by this division (B).
      (2)   Applications for the segregation of liens shall be made to the
Recorder, describing the tract to be segregated and the names of the owners of
the respective tracts. A certificate of the County Assessor shall be furnished
showing the assessed valuation of the various tracts of land concerned as of
January 1 of the year in which the segregation is requested, if available, and
if not available, as of January 1 of the preceding year.
      (3)   The Recorder shall compute a segregation of the lien against the
real property on the same basis as the original was computed and apportioned,
and the segregation shall be reflected in the city lien docket. No segregation
shall be made unless all parts of the original tract of land after the
segregation have a true cash value, as determined from the certificate of the
Assessor, of 60% or more of the amount of the lien as to the various tracts
concerned.
(Prior Code, § 35.12) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.13 ASSESSMENT ERRORS.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments shall be brought to the
attention of the Recorder, who shall determine whether there has been an error.
If the Recorder finds there has been an error, the Recorder shall recommend to
the Council an amendment to the assessment ordinance to correct the error. On
enactment of the amendment, the Recorder shall make the necessary correction in
the city lien docket and send a corrected notice of assessment by registered or
certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 35.13) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.14 ASSESSMENT INCREASES.
   If the initial assessment has been made on the basis of estimated cost and,
upon the completion of the improvement, the actual cost is found to exceed the
estimated cost, the Council may make a deficit or supplemental assessment for
the additional cost. Proposed assessments on the respective lots within the
local improvement district for the proportionate share of the deficit shall be
made, notices shall be sent, a public hearing shall be held, opportunity for
objections shall be provided, and determination of the assessment against each
particular lot shall be made as in the case of the initial assessment. The
deficit or supplemental assessment shall be spread by ordinance. The deficit
assessments shall be entered in the city lien docket, notices shall be
published and mailed, and the collection of the assessment shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter relating to the original
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 35.14) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.15 ASSESSMENT CREDITS AND REBATES.
   If assessments are made on the basis of an estimated cost, and upon
completion of the project the cost is found to be less than the estimated cost,
the Council shall ascertain and declare the same by ordinance. When declared,
the excess amounts shall be entered on the city lien docket as a credit on the
appropriate assessment. If an assessment has been paid, the person who paid it
or that person’s legal representative shall be entitled to payment of the
rebate credit. If the property owner has filed an application to pay the
assessment by installment, the owner shall be entitled to the refund only when
the installments, together with interest, are fully paid. If the property owner
has neither paid the assessment nor filed an application to pay in
installments, the amount of the refund shall be deducted from the assessment,
and the remainder shall remain a lien on the property until legally satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.16 ABANDONMENT OF IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The Council may abandon proceedings for local improvements made under this
subchapter at any time prior to the final completion of the improvements. If
liens have been placed on any property under this procedure, they shall be
cancelled, and payments made on the assessments shall be refunded to the person
who paid them or to that person’s legal representative.
(Prior Code, § 35.16) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.17 PROCEDURAL ERRORS.
   (A)   An improvement assessment shall not be rendered invalid by reason of:
      (1)   Failure to have all the required information in any project report;
      (2)   Failure to have all the required information in the improvement
resolution, assessment ordinance, lien docket, or notices required to be
published and mailed;
      (3)   Failure to list the name of or mail notice to an owner of property
as required by this subchapter; and/or
      (4)   Any other error, mistake, delay, omission, irregularity, or other
act, jurisdictional or otherwise, in the proceedings or steps specified, unless
it appears that the assessment is unfair or unjust in its effect on the person
complaining.
   (B)   The Council shall have authority to remedy and correct all matters by
suitable action and proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 35.17) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.18 REASSESSMENTS.
   When an assessment, deficit assessment, or reassessment for any local
improvement has been set aside, annulled, declared or rendered void, or its
enforcement refused by a court having jurisdiction, or when the Council doubts
the validity of all or any part of the assessment, the Council may make a new
assessment or reassessment in the manner provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 35.18) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 35.19 REMEDIES.
   Subject to the curative provisions of §
35.17 and the rights of the city to reassess pursuant to §
35.18, proceedings for writs of review and other appropriate equitable or legal
relief may be filed as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 35.19) (Ord. 105, passed 12-11-1986)
CHAPTER 36: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Authority
   
36.03   Administrative enforcement authority
   
36.04   Authority to inspect, abate; emergency
   
36.05   Recovery of administrative costs; purpose
   
36.06   Written complaint; exceptions
   
36.07   Complainant’s right of appeal
   
36.08   Code of ordinance violations
   
36.09   Notice of violation
   
36.10   Abatement, correction; assessment of costs; lien
   
36.11   Fine assessment, lien
   
36.12   Prohibition against issuance of city permits
   
36.13   Cease and desist orders
   
36.14   Stipulation agreement
   
36.15   Commencement of civil court action
   
36.16   Joint responsibility
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Recorder or the City Recorder’s designee,
including the Code Violation Investigator.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, association, partnership, trust, firm,
or other legal entity.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. An agent, occupant, lessee, tenant, contract purchaser, or
other person having possession or control of property.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. Any or all of the following:
      (1)   The owner of the property on which a code violation exists;
      (2)   The person in charge of the property on which a code violation
exists; and/or
      (3)   The person who causes the code violation to come into or continue
in existence.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.02 AUTHORITY.
   Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any
provisions of this code may be abated by the city pursuant to the procedures
set forth herein, except those where any other individual or body has been
expressly deemed responsible for such enforcement activity.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.03 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer has the authority to make the
determination in the first instance whether a violation of this code has
occurred or exists, and has the authority to take appropriate action to gain
compliance with the provisions of this code. The Code Enforcement Officer
further has the authority to issue notices of violation, findings, and orders,
the power to inspect public and private property pursuant to this chapter, and
the power to utilize the administrative remedies available under this code.
   (B)   (1)   The City Recorder, with approval of the City Council, may hire
individuals with the skills, knowledge, and expertise to serve as Code
Violation Investigators. The Code Violation Investigator will conduct
investigations or inspections, or accompany the Code Enforcement Officer on any
investigations or inspections conducted pursuant to this chapter, and will have
the same power as the Code Enforcement Officer to inspect public and private
property.
      (2)   The Code Violation Investigator will report and make recommendation
to the Code Enforcement Officer to aid the Code Enforcement Officer in making a
determination as to whether a violation of this code has occurred or exists.
   (C)   The City Code Enforcement Officer is responsible for the enforcement
of all provisions of the city code except those where any other individual or
body has been expressly deemed responsible for such enforcement activity.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.04 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT, ABATE; EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Entrance on property with permission of the person in charge. With the
permission of the person in charge of the property, the Code Enforcement
Officer and/or a Code Violation Investigator is authorized to enter upon any
property or premises at a reasonable time in order to ascertain if a code
violation exists on the property, and to make any investigations, examinations,
and surveys as may be necessary in the performance of his or her enforcement
duties. This may include, but is not limited to, taking of photographs, taking
measurements, or collecting samples of other physical evidence. With the
permission of the person in charge, the Code Enforcement Officer is further
authorized to enter onto property to abate a code violation in accordance with
requirements of this code.
   (B)   Entrance on property without permission of the person in charge. In
the event that the Code Enforcement Officer cannot gain permission from the
person in charge to enter onto property when such entry is sought pursuant to
this section, the Code Enforcement Officer may seek entry through any legal
means including, without limitation, making application to any court of
competent jurisdiction for issuance of a warrant. The warrant application will
identify the premises upon which entry is sought, the purpose for which entry
is desired, and the facts giving rise to the belief that a condition which is a
violation of this code exists on such premises, and, if applicable, any
abatement actions that will be taken.
   (C)   Emergency. In cases where a violation of this code unmistakably exists
and the violation imminently endangers human life or property, the Code
Enforcement Officer will immediately notify the appropriate county, state, or
federal office having oversight and jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
violation, and the Code Enforcement Officer may proceed summarily to abate the
violation.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.05 RECOVERY OF ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS; PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds there is a need to recover costs incurred by the city
in its code enforcement efforts. These costs will be referred to as
administrative costs, and will include time spent by city personnel re-
inspecting properties throughout the city in an effort to ensure compliance
with this code, and costs incurred in the investigation, inspection, re-
inspection, recording of notices, title search, and any other costs associated
with violations specified on any notice.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.06 WRITTEN COMPLAINT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person may submit to the Code Enforcement Officer a signed,
written complaint alleging that a violation of the city code of ordinances has
occurred. The complaint must contain: the contact information, including name,
address, telephone number, and email address, if any, of the complainant; a
full description of the alleged violation; and the city code section which has
allegedly been violated. If the Code Enforcement Officer finds the complaint to
be credible, the Code Enforcement Officer may investigate the complaint.
   (B)   The city may undertake investigations of possible code violations in
the absence of a written complaint if a potential code violation is reported by
an employee or contractor for the city, or the state or federal governments.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.07 COMPLAINANT’S RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event the Code Enforcement Officer finds a complaint is not
credible, the complainant has the right to appeal that decision to the City
Council by submitting written notice of appeal, together with appeal
administration fees, within ten calendar days of the date of notification of
finding that the complaint is not credible. Upon receipt of a timely filed
notice of appeal, the matter will be placed on the agenda for consideration at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. The Council’s decision on
appeal shall be final.
   (B)   The City Council will, by resolution, set the amount to be collected
for filing of a notice of appeal. All appeal administration fees shall be paid
at the time of filing of the notice of appeal. In the event of a finding by the
City Council in favor of the complainant, the city will assume all costs
associated with processing the appeal. In the event the finding of the City
Council upholds the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer, the Complainant
will reimburse the city for any and all costs associated with processing the
appeal. Collection of such fees shall be made in the same manner as provided in
§
36.10.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.08 CODE OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   In the event of a finding of a violation of the code, the Code Enforcement
Officer may take the following actions:
   (A)   Seek voluntary compliance to abate the violation without any further
action taken;
   (B)   Summarily abate the violation if the violation is an immediate threat
to public health and safety or endangers property;
   (C)   Impose administrative costs against the person found to be responsible
for the violation;
   (D)   Issue a notice of violation;
   (E)   Issue a cease and desist order;
   (F)   Abate;
   (G)   Fine;
   (H)   Execute a stipulation agreement; and/or
   (I)   Commence civil proceedings.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.09 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a code violation
exists, the Code Enforcement Officer will serve a notice of violation on the
property owner and the person responsible. The notice of violation will be
served by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Service by certified mail will be deemed complete upon mailing. If the property
owner is unknown or absent and has no known representative upon whom notice can
be served, the Code Enforcement Officer will post a copy of the notice of
violation on the property.
      (2)   The notice of violation will contain:
         (a)   Findings of fact with corresponding conclusions of law, which
describe the code violation(s) and the corresponding code section(s), and/or
rule(s) which have been violated;
         (b)   Order for corrective action, which describes specifically how
each violation must be corrected and the timeframes within which the
corrections are required to be made. The order for corrective action shall
include a statement that if the violation is not appealed or corrected within
ten days of the date of service of the notice of violation, the city will abate
or correct the violation and charge the costs of abatement or correction to the
person responsible. The order for corrective action shall also include a
statement that failure to correct or abate the code violation may result in the
imposition of a fine;
         (c)   A description of the additional administrative and judicial
enforcement actions that could be pursued by the Code Enforcement Officer if
the violations are not satisfactorily corrected; and
         (d)   A statement that the person responsible or the property owner
may appeal the order for corrective action to the City Council by delivering a
written request for review to the City Recorder within ten calendar days after
the date of issuance of the notice of violation. If the person responsible or
the property owner fails to timely file a written request for review, the Code
Enforcement Officer’s finding that a violation has occurred will be final.
   (B)   An error in the name or address of the property owner or person
responsible will not void the notice of violation.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a timely filed written request for review, the matter
will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. If the Council determines that a code violation exists,
the property owner or person responsible shall abate or correct the code
violation within five days of the date of the Council’s decision, unless the
Council allows a longer time for abatement or correction. The Council’s
decision on the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.10 ABATEMENT, CORRECTION; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS; LIEN.
   (A)   If the violation has not been abated or corrected by the person
responsible within the required timeframe, the Code Enforcement Officer may
abate or correct the violation, provided that the estimated cost of the
abatement or correction does not exceed $2,000. If the estimated cost of the
abatement or correction exceeds $2,000, the Code Enforcement Officer will seek
approval of the expenditure of said amounts from the City Council at the City
Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting. In addition to abating or
correcting the violation, the Code Enforcement Officer may assess a penalty
against the person responsible, and recover the costs of the abatement from the
person responsible.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer will keep a record of the abatement or
connection costs incurred by the city, including administrative expenses and
costs of appeal, and report all work done for which assessments are to be made,
stating and certifying the description of the real property, lots, or parcels
involved and the amount assessable to each.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall forward a notice of costs to the
property owner and person responsible stating:
      (1)   The total cost of the abatement or correction;
      (2)   The amount of any penalty for violation of the code;
      (3)   The costs and any penalties will be assessed to and become a lien
against the real property if not paid within 30 days of the date of the notice;
and
      (4)   The amount of costs and penalties may be appealed to the City
Council by submitting a written notice of appeal to the City Recorder within
ten calendar days of the date of the notice.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a timely filed written request for review, the matter
will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. The Council’s decision on the appeal shall be final.
   (E)   Unless prior arrangements have been made with the City Recorder, if
the costs of abatement or correction and any penalties assessed are not paid
within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice of costs, or the from the
date of entry of decision by the City Council in the event of appeal, the
amount owed will be entered into the docket of city liens and will constitute a
lien on the property where the violation took place. This lien will be recorded
with County Deeds and Records Office.
   (F)   The lien may be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced, and will bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum.
Interest will begin to run on the date of entry in the lien docket or date of
recordation in the county public records.
   (G)   An error in the name or address of the property owner or person
responsible for a failure to receive the notice of costs will not void the
assessment and it will remain a valid lien on the property.
   (H)   Abatement or correction of a code violation is not a penalty, but is
an additional remedy. Imposition of a penalty for a code violation does not
relieve the person responsible of the duty to abate or correct the violation.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.11 FINE ASSESSMENT, LIEN.
   (A)   In all cases where the same violation is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this city code, the Code Enforcement
Officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (B)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   No provisions of this city code designating the duties of the Code
Enforcement Officer, or designated Code Enforcement Officer, shall be so
construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty
provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of the City
Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall forward a notice of imposition of
penalty to the property owner and person responsible, stating:
      (1)   The amount of any penalty for violation of the code;
      (2)   The penalty will be assessed to and become a lien against the real
property if not paid within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice; and
      (3)   The penalty may be appealed to the City Council by submitting a
written notice of appeal to the City Recorder within ten calendar days of the
date of the notice and paying any fees associated with the filing of notice of
appeal.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a timely filed written request for review, the matter
will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. The Council’s decision on the appeal shall be final.
   (F)   (1)   Unless prior arrangements have been made with the City Recorder,
if the penalties assessed are not paid within 30 calendar days of the date of
the notice of imposition of penalty, the amount owed will be entered into the
docket of city liens and will constitute a lien on the property where the
violation took place.
      (2)   This lien will be recorded with the County Deeds and Records
Office.
   (G)   The lien may be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced, and will bear interest at a legal rate of interest.
Interest will begin to run on the date of entry in the lien docket.
   (H)   An error in the name or address of the property owner or person
responsible for a failure to receive the notice of imposition of penalty will
not void the imposition and it will remain a valid lien on the property.
   (I)   Abatement or correction of a code violation is not a penalty, but is
an additional remedy. Imposition of a penalty for a code violation does not
relieve the person responsible of the duty to abate or correct the violation.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.12 PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF CITY PERMITS.
   For properties where a notice of violation has been issued, the city may
withhold permits for repair, construction, and/or alteration, other than those
necessary to achieve compliance with the provisions of this code, on the
affected property until a notice of compliance has been issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.13 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   Cease and desist orders may be issued when the Code Enforcement Officer has
probable cause to believe that an activity regulated by this code is being or
has been conducted without a permit or in violation of this code. When activity
has been stopped by a cease and desist order, it may not be resumed until the
reason for the activity stoppage has been completely satisfied, any
administrative fees paid, and the cease and desist order lifted.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.14 STIPULATION AGREEMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer, with the approval of the City Council, and a
person alleged to have violated provisions of this code may voluntarily enter
into a stipulation agreement whereby the parties to the agreement: Identify
conditions on the property that require corrective action; agree on the
corrective actions that must be performed by the person; agree on the
timeframes in which the corrective actions must be completed; and any other
necessary information. If the person fails to fulfill the requirements of the
agreement, the Code Enforcement Officer may seek compliance with the terms of
the agreement through a court of competent jurisdiction or pursue other
enforcement action allowed by this code.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.15 COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL COURT ACTION.
   In the event of a violation or threat of violation of this code, the City
Council or the Code Enforcement Officer may institute appropriate civil actions
or proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction requesting injunctive
relief to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violations or threatened
violations. The city may recover all costs, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, incurred for the enforcement of this code.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.16 JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible, they will be jointly and
severally liable for abating or correcting the violation and for the costs
incurred by the city in abating or correcting the violation, and for any and
all penalties assessed for violation of this code.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of any section or provision of this city
code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500 for any one offense, each day constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-9-2016)
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICIES
Section
Land Use Claims
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Definitions
   
37.03   Claim for compensation
   
37.04   Claim completeness review
   
37.05   City Administrator review, recommendation
   
37.06   Opportunity to comment
   
37.07   Notice
   
37.08   Record
   
37.09   Final decision
   
37.10   Burden of proof and record
   
37.11   Ex parte contacts; conflict of interest; bias
   
37.12   Reconsideration of waiver
   
37.13   Procedural error
Cross-reference:
   Land Development Code, see
Chapter 155
LAND USE CLAIMS
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures governing new
Measure 49 claims filed under O.R.S. 195.305 and 195.310 to 195.336. These
provisions are in addition to and not in lieu of any statutory requirements.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions for Measure 49, set forth in O.R.S. 195.300, are hereby
incorporated by this reference.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.03 CLAIM FOR COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Filing. All claims shall be filed for review upon forms established by
the city and must include all information as required by O.R.S. 195.312.
   (B)   Fee. Must be accompanied by a fee in an amount as set by resolution of
the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.04 CLAIM COMPLETENESS REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a claim, the city shall:
      (1)   Deny the claim if:
         (a)   It is not filed within five years from the date the land use
regulation was enacted;
         (b)   An application for a comprehensive plan or zoning amendment is
approved for the subject property; or
         (c)   Any submittal requirements are not met as set forth in §
37.03.
      (2)   Determine whether a claim is complete within 60 days after
receiving the claim; and/or
      (3)   Notify the claimant of any missing information within 60 days after
receiving the claim.
   (B)   After providing notice of missing information, the city shall:
      (1)   Deem the application complete if:
         (a)   The claimant provides the missing information and the required
fee; or
         (b)   The claimant provides the required fee and a written statement
that some or all of the missing information will not be provided.
      (2)   Deem the application complete if the city fails to notify the
claimant of missing information within 60 days after receiving the claim; and/
or
      (3)   Deem the application withdrawn if the claimant fails to provide the
fee and the missing information, or a written statement that some or all of the
information will not be provided within the time specified in the notice of
missing information.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.05 CITY ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW, RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Once a claim is deemed complete, the City Administrator shall
investigate the validity of the claim. After reviewing all required material
and information, the City Administrator may:
      (1)   Further investigate;
      (2)   Recommend denial of the claim; and/or
      (3)   Forward a recommendation of approval of the claim to the City
Council.
   (B)   (1)   Not withstanding the options in division (A) above, the City
Administrator may choose to forward any claim to the City Council for a public
hearing and decision in accordance with this subchapter. In making this
determination, the Administrator may consider factors including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   The amount of compensation at issue;
         (b)   The nature of the proposed use or development, if any; and
         (c)   The impact of the proposed use or development.
      (2)   (a)   The decision of the City Administrator to forward a claim to
the City Council is final and not subject to appeal.
         (b)   The Council, however, may summarily and without notice or
hearing elect to return the claim to the Administrator for a final decision on
the claim.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.06 OPPORTUNITY TO COMMENT.
   (A)   Where the City Administrator determines to recommend to the City
Council approval of a claim, a public hearing shall be held to allow an
opportunity for public comments.
   (B)   Where the City Administrator determines denial is merited based upon
the submitted material and any additional investigation conducted, the City
Administrator will provide an opportunity for written public comment.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.07 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of the claim and the City Administrator’s recommendation will
be provided at least 30 days before a public hearing on the claim or, if there
will not be a public hearing, at least 30 days before the deadline for
submission of written comments, to:
      (1)   All owners identified in the claim;
      (2)   Owners of record of property on the most recent property tax
assessment roll where such property is located within 300 feet of the perimeter
of the subject property;
      (3)   Neighborhood groups or community organizations officially
recognized by the City Council and whose boundaries include the subject
property;
      (4)   The Department of Land, Conservation, and Development (DLCD),
unless the claim was filed with that Department; and
      (5)   The county in which the property is located, unless the claim was
also filed with the county.
   (B)   The notice required under division (A) above must describe the claim
and state:
      (1)   Whether a public hearing will be held on the claim; the date, time,
and location of the hearing, if any; and the final date for submission of
written evidence and arguments relating to the claim;
      (2)   Judicial review of the city’s final determination on the claim is
limited to the written evidence and arguments submitted to the city; and
      (3)   The judicial review is available only for issues that are raised
with sufficient specificity to afford the city an opportunity to respond.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.08 RECORD.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, written evidence and
arguments in proceedings on the claim must be submitted to the city not later
than:
      (1)   The close of the final hearing on the claim; or
      (2)   If a public hearing is not held, the date that is specified by the
city in the notice required under §
37.07.
   (B)   The claimant may request additional time to submit written evidence
and arguments in response to testimony or submittals. The request must be made
before the close of testimony or the deadline for submission of written
evidence and arguments. The city, in its sole discretion, may choose to grant
or deny the claimant’s request.
   (C)   The city shall make the record on review of a claim, including any
staff reports, available to the public before the close of the record.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.09 FINAL DECISION.
   (A)   (1)   Either the City Administrator or the City Council shall issue a
final decision on a claim, after providing notice and an opportunity to
comment, within 180 days from the date the claim is deemed completed.
      (2)   The Council may waive some regulations identified in the claim and
deny waiver of others. The Council may waive regulations that are not otherwise
specified in the claim.
      (3)   The Administrator or Council may impose reasonable conditions on a
waiver to protect the public interest. Failure to comply with any condition of
approval is grounds for revocation of the Administrator’s or City Council’s
decision.
   (B)   The final decision shall be in writing and signed by the City
Administrator, or Mayor, if the decision was referred to the City Council. The
City shall mail a copy of the final determination to the claimant and to any
person who submitted written evidence or arguments before the close of the
record. The city shall forward to the county, and the county shall record, a
memorandum of the final determination in the deed records of the county in
which the property is located.
   (C)   The decision of either the City Administrator or the City Council, if
referred to the Council, is final and not subject to local appeal. Judicial
review is available only as provided in O.R.S. 195.318.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.10 BURDEN OF PROOF AND RECORD.
   The claimant shall have the burden of proof on all matters under this
subchapter. The claimant bears sole responsibility for ensuring that the record
before the city contains all information and evidence necessary to support the
claim. The claimant shall be precluded from submitting information or raising
new issues in any subsequent proceeding unless the claimant demonstrates that
the information or issue could not reasonably have been entered into the record
or raised before the city.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.11 EX PARTE CONTACTS; CONFLICT OF INTEREST; BIAS.
   The following rules govern any challenges to the City Administrator’s or a
member of the City Council’s participation in the processing of a claim.
   (A)   Any factual information obtained by the City Administrator or a member
of the City Council outside the information provided by city staff, or outside
the formal written comments process or hearing will be deemed an ex parte
contact. The City Administrator or a member of the City Council that has
obtained any material factual information through an ex parte contact must
declare the content of the contact, and allow any interested party to rebut the
substance of that contact. This rule dos not apply to contacts between city
staff and the City Administrator or a member of the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the City Administrator or member of the City Council, or any
member of their immediate family or household, has a direct financial interest
in the outcome of a particular demand or lies within the area entitled to
notice of the claim, the City Administrator or member of the City Council shall
not participate in the deliberation or decision on that demand.
   (C)   All decisions on claims must be fair, impartial, and based on the
applicable review standards and the evidence on the record. The City
Administrator or a member of the City Council who is unable to render a
decision on this basis must refrain from participating in the deliberation or
decision on that claim.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.12 RECONSIDERATION OF WAIVER.
   (A)   The Council may, in its sole discretion, reconsider a decision on a
claim if it appears that the decision is inconsistent with a subsequent court
ruling, administrative rule, or other change in law relating to Measure 49. The
decision to reconsider may be made without notice of hearing; but the decision
on reconsideration shall be made only after notice and opportunity to be heard
consistent with the requirements for claim review provided under this
subchapter for Council review.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the process, the City Administrator or Council
may affirm, modify, or revoke the earlier decision. If the Council modifies or
revokes a decision to waive one or more land use regulations, it shall issue an
order setting forth such remedy as it deems appropriate to protect the public
interest.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 37.13 PROCEDURAL ERROR.
   No procedural effect in processing a claim shall invalidate any proceeding
or decision unless the party alleging the error demonstrates prejudice to a
substantial right. Inadvertent failure to provide notice or complete notice
shall not be grounds for invalidating a decision.
(Ord. 268, passed 2-21-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Intent
   
50.03   Prohibitions
   
50.04   Owners’ responsibilities
   
50.05   City’s responsibilities
   
50.06   Fees
   
50.07   Inspection, evaluation standards, form required
   
50.08   Copy of inspection, evaluation, approval required; inspectors’
responsibilities
   
50.09   Periodic inspection, evaluation required; challenges
   
50.10   Business license required
   
50.11   Violations
   
50.12   Septic tank maintenance table
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSORPTION FIELD. A system of absorption trenches, a seepage trench, or a
system of seepage trenches.
   ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM. Any on-site wastewater treatment system approved by the
State Environmental Quality Commission or the State Department of Environmental
Quality for use in lieu of the standard subsurface system.
   ALTERNATIVE TREATMENT TECHNOLOGIES. Any alternative system that incorporates
aerobic and other treatment technologies or units not specifically described
elsewhere herein.
   COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any structure or building or portion thereof other than
a single-family dwelling.
   DRAINFIELD. The entire area for underground dispersion of the liquid portion
of sewage including the area designated for future replacement system. The
DRAINFIELD includes an absorption field.
   EVALUATION. An evaluation, investigation, inspection, recommendation, or
other process performed by a qualified inspector.
   INSPECTION. A critical examination performed by a qualified inspector to
ensure a wastewater disposal system meets the standards of the Oregon Revised
Statutes and Oregon Administrative Rules.
   LAKEFRONT PROPERTY. Any real property that is abutting a lake, river, or
stream, also known as a WATERFRONT or RIPARIAN PROPERTY.
   MAP. A scale drawing of the property that includes the entire septic system
relative to the lot lines, outbuildings, dwellings, driveways, parking areas,
and replacement drainfield areas. Such MAP shall also include the location of
any riparian areas and shoreland zones, and the location of any wellheads and
septic systems within 100 feet of the existing or proposed new septic system,
including those wellheads and septic systems on adjoining properties.
   NOTICE. A written notification from the city to the owner of a wastewater
disposal or septic system within the city limits. A NOTICE shall be considered
given when deposited in the United States mail, or certified mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the owner, or when personally served on the
owner.
   OWNER. A person who has ownership or control of a wastewater disposal
system.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, association, partnership, trust, firm,
or other private legal entity.
   QUALIFIED/CERTIFIED INSPECTOR.
      (1)   A person who is licensed by the city pursuant to §
50.10 and Chapter 111, is registered in accordance with O.R.S. Chapter 700, and
possesses a current NSF International On-site Wastewater Inspector
accreditation.
      (2)   A person who is a County Sanitation Department inspector, is a
State Department of Environmental Quality Inspector, or is otherwise approved
by the State Department of Environmental Quality to perform wastewater or
septic system inspections.
   RAW WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has not been treated by physical, chemical,
or biological means, or a combination thereof; to alter the quality of the
wastewater to reduce the potential degradation of water quality or the
environment and risk to public health.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM. The system that may be composed of piping, septic tank,
distribution boxes, filters, pumps, and electrical connections, and other
components, including the drainfield, necessary to treat sewage.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight receptacle that receives sewage from a sanitary
drainage system and is designed to separate solids from liquids, digest organic
matter during a period of detention, and allow the liquids to discharge to a
second treatment unit or to a soil absorption field.
   SEWAGE/WASTEWATER. Water-carried human and animal wastes, including kitchen,
bath, and laundry wastes from residences, buildings, industrial establishments,
or other places, together with any groundwater infiltration, surface waters, or
industrial waste that may be present.
   TREATED WASTEWATER/PARTIALLY TREATED WASTEWATER. Wastewater, the quality of
which has been altered by physical, chemical, or biological means, or a
combination thereof, to reduce potential degradation of water quality to the
environment, and risk to public health.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system for disposing of wastes, either by
surface or underground methods and includes domestic sewerage systems,
treatment works, and other systems.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.02 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to ensure that all on-site wastewater
disposal systems, also known as sewage disposal systems or septic systems,
located in the city, are operated in a safe, healthful, and environmentally
responsible manner.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   (A)   Maintain, occupy, or use any building intended for habitation that
disposes of wastewater in a manner that does not comply with the laws, rules,
regulations, ordinances, or orders of the state, the county, and the city;
   (B)   Construct, maintain, or use any wastewater disposal system that
results in raw or partially treated wastewater escaping the confines of the
wastewater disposal system and seeping into the ground or flowing into any
surface water;
   (C)   Discharge raw or treated wastewater into any well or boring, or any
other excavation, in the ground if the discharge is not in compliance with the
laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and orders of the state, the county, and
the city; and/or
   (D)   Discharge into any septic system any hazardous or deleterious material
that adversely affects the treatment or dispersal performance of the system or
adversely affects groundwater quality.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 OWNERS’ RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Initial inspection and mapping.
      (1)   Owners of existing buildings served by on-site wastewater disposal
systems are responsible to have those systems initially mapped, inspected, and
evaluated, at their expense, by a qualified inspector.
      (2)   Copies of the initial map, inspection, and evaluation must be filed
with the City Recorder on or before September 9, 2016. Owners who file
wastewater disposal system maps, inspections, and evaluations in accordance
with prior Ord. 173, passed March 9, 2006, and prior Ord. 203, adopted January
14, 2010, are considered to be in compliance with the requirements of this
division (A).
   (B)   Periodic inspections. Owners of existing buildings served by on-site
wastewater disposal systems, except those systems identified in division (D)
below, are responsible to have those systems periodically inspected and
evaluated at their expense by a qualified inspector. The time period for the
required inspection and evaluation shall be the interval identified by the
qualified inspector in the prior inspection and evaluation report. Within 45
calendar days after said periodic inspection and evaluation, the owner shall
cause a copy of the inspection and evaluation report to be filed with the City
Recorder, together with the appropriate fee. If the qualified inspector fails
to provide said inspection and evaluation report to the property owner within
30 calendar days following the date of inspection as provided in §
50.07(A) herein, the owner shall notify the City Recorder who shall investigate
the reason for the delay by the inspector in providing the report to the
property owner.
   (C)   Notification of system failure. Owners are responsible to install,
operate, and maintain their wastewater disposal systems in accordance with the
laws of the state and Oregon Administrative Rules. Owners shall notify the city
in the event the inspector’s report indicates a failure of the system or the
owner observes a failure of a system at any time.
   (D)   Alternative systems.
      (1)   Owners of alternative systems that utilize alternative treatment
technology are responsible to have those systems inspected and evaluated at
their expense in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes and Oregon
Administrative Rules.
      (2)   Such owners shall provide a copy of the Department of Environmental
Quality annual inspection report to the City Recorder.
      (3)   No fee for submission of this report will be required.
   (E)   Commercial facilities.
      (1)   Owners of existing commercial facilities served by on-site
wastewater disposal systems, except those systems identified in division (D)
above, are responsible to have those systems periodically inspected and
evaluated at their expense by a qualified inspector. The time period for the
required inspection and evaluation shall be the interval identified by the
qualified inspector in the prior inspection and evaluation report. Within 45
calendar days after said periodic inspection and evaluation, the owner shall
cause a copy of the inspection and evaluation report to be filed with the City
Recorder, together with the appropriate fee. If the qualified inspector fails
to provide said inspection and evaluation report to the property owner within
30 calendar days following the date of inspection, as provided in §
50.07(A) herein, the owner shall notify the City Recorder who shall investigate
the reason for the delay by the inspector in providing the report to the
property owner.
      (2)   Owners of commercial facilities are responsible to have sanitation
inspections at their expense in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes and
Oregon Administrative Rules. Such owners shall provide a copy of the annual
sanitation inspection report to the City Recorder. No fee for submission of
this report will be required.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.05 CITY’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall establish records of individual wastewater disposal
systems and the city shall maintain such records in accordance with state
records retention laws, rules, and regulations.
   (B)   The city shall maintain a register of qualified inspectors who have
acknowledged receipt of and agree to abide by this chapter. The city will
remove an inspector’s name from the register for failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Failure to provide inspection results to an owner within 30
calendar days; and/or
      (2)   Providing inspection results that are deemed by the city to be
incomplete or unacceptable.
   (C)   The city shall send periodic reminder notices, together with
information describing recommended septic tank maintenance, to wastewater
disposal system owners not later than 30 calendar days prior to the expiration
of the time interval identified by the qualified inspector on the prior
inspection and evaluation report. Upon receipt of the qualified inspector’s
inspection and evaluation report, the city shall send the wastewater disposal
system owners an acknowledgment of the qualified inspector’s inspection and
evaluation report.
   (D)   Semi-annually, the city shall prepare and present a septic system
maintenance compliance report to the City Council.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.06 FEES.
   At the time of filing of any reports, maps, evaluations, inspections, or
other data required under the terms of this section, the city shall charge and
collect an administration fee to cover the costs of administration and
implementation of this chapter. Said fee shall be established by resolution
adopted by the City Council and may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.07 INSPECTION, EVALUATION STANDARDS, FORM REQUIRED.
   (A)   Inspections and evaluation standards shall meet those as required by
O.R.S. Chapter 454 and the Oregon Administrative Rules. If a periodic
inspection indicates a fully functioning system, pumping of the septic tank is
not required unless the qualified inspector deems it necessary. The qualified
inspector shall use the inspection and evaluation form required by the
Department of Environmental Quality to prepare a report of the system’s current
condition including the reason or reasons supporting a decision to require
pumping of the septic tank, and shall include a recommendation as to when the
system should be evaluated again in the future. The completed inspection and
evaluation form shall be delivered to the owner within 30 calendar days from
the date of inspection and evaluation.
   (B)   When determining the timeframe to establish the date for the next
periodic evaluation, qualified inspectors shall utilize the most current State
University Extension Service Septic Tank Maintenance Table in §
50.12, or such other document or documents as may be adopted by the City
Council by resolution from time to time, as a guideline.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.08 COPY OF INSPECTION, EVALUATION, APPROVAL REQUIRED; INSPECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Any owner of property upon which a new, replacement, or existing septic
system is required to be inspected, approved, or evaluated pursuant to O.R.S.
Chapter 454, or any provision of the Oregon Administrative Rules, shall file a
copy of the document evidencing said inspection, approval, or evaluation, as
well as a map of the property as defined in §
50.07(A), with the City Recorder within 45 calendar days of the date of
issuance thereof.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.09 PERIODIC INSPECTION, EVALUATION REQUIRED; CHALLENGES.
   (A)   Owners of buildings served by on-site wastewater disposal systems
shall have their system inspected and evaluated as provided in this chapter at
such intervals as identified by the qualified system inspector.
   (B)   If an owner of a wastewater disposal system disagrees with the time
interval identified by the inspector, that owner shall, at the owner’s sole
expense, obtain a second qualified inspector’s opinion as to the recommended
time interval and submit the written second opinion from the second qualified
inspector along with the evaluation report. For purposes of enforcement and
implementation of this chapter, the city shall accept the recommendation that
provides for the greatest time interval between inspections that is recommended
by either qualified inspector.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.10 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person, other than a governmental agency, that performs wastewater
disposal or septic system evaluations and pumping within the corporate limits
of the city shall obtain a business license from the city pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 111. The annual business license fee shall be established
by resolution of the City Council. Prior to the issuance of said wastewater
disposal or septic system evaluation, inspection, and pumping license, the city
shall deliver to the applicant a complete copy of this chapter and copies of
documents adopted by the City Council for inspectors to utilize to determine
the dates of periodic evaluations, and the applicant shall acknowledge receipt
and review of said chapter and other document(s) in writing.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.11 VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of this chapter, the city may take the following actions:
issuance of a notice of violation; issuance of a cease and desist order;
abatement; execution of a stipulation agreement; and/or commencement of other
civil proceedings as provided in Chapter 36. Upon receipt of a written
complaint alleging a violation of the provisions of §
50.03 herein, the City Recorder shall immediately investigate the complaint. If
an investigation determines that a system has failed, or is being used in
violation of the city code or Department of Environmental Quality’s standards
for on-site wastewater treatment systems (O.A.R. Chapter 340, Division 071), a
notice shall be sent to the property owner. Failed systems or systems being
used in violation must be repaired or decommissioned after obtaining all
appropriate permits within 90 calendar days of the notification date. At the
discretion of the City Recorder, extensions may be granted based on individual
circumstances. If the violation is not repaired within the required time
period, the City Recorder shall immediately notify the County Sanitarian and,
if the violation is committed by a business entity, will notify both the County
Sanitarian and the State Attorney General’s Environmental Crimes Program.
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 50.12 SEPTIC TANK MAINTENANCE TABLE.
   The following table is the estimated septic tank pumping frequencies in
years (for year-round residence).
Oregon State University/Extension Service Septic Tank Maintenance
Table
(April 2000 EC 1343)
   Tank Si   Household Size
   (gallon   (number of people)
Oregon State University/Extension Service Septic Tank Maintenance
Table
(April 2000 EC 1343)
   Tank Si   Household Size
   (gallon   (number of people)
             1,000 12.4 5.9  3.7 2.6 2.0 1.5 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.7
1,250        15.6  7.5  4.8  3.4 2.6 2.0 1.7 1.4 1.2 1.0
1,500        18.9  9.1  5.9  4.2 3.3 2.6 2.1 1.8 1.5 1.3
1,750        22.1  10.7 6.9  5.0 3.9 3.1 2.6 2.2 1.9 1.6
2,000        25.4  12.4 8.0  5.9 4.5 3.7 3.1 2.6 2.2 2.0
2,250        28.6  14.0 9.1  6.7 5.2 4.2 3.5 3.0 2.6 2.3
2,500        31.9  15.6 10.2 7.5 5.9 4.8 4.0 4.0 3.0 2.6
Notes to Table:
More frequent pumping is needed if garbage disposal is used.
 
(Ord. 228, passed 5-12-2016)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Shared Domestic Water Right Program
   
51.01   Established
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Prohibitions
   
51.04   Application
   
51.05   Agreement required; payment of fees
   
51.06   Transfer of ownership
   
51.07   Fees and costs
   
51.08   New meters
   
51.09   Relocation of existing meters
   
51.10   Domestic water quality, quantity
   
51.11   Payment of administrative fees
   
51.12   Water usage reporting
   
51.13   Use without a permit
 
   
51.99    Penalty
SHARED DOMESTIC WATER RIGHT PROGRAM
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The City Shared Domestic Water Right Program is hereby established, whereby
the city agrees to share its domestic water right assigned “Oregon Water
Resources Department Permit No. S33923 (Application No. 45456)” for the
diversion of water from Woahink Lake with the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. An individual owning property in the city who applies to the city
for a permit to share the city’s domestic water right permit for diversion of
water from Woahink Lake. Each applicant shall provide legal access, by easement
appurtenant to the land or by fee simple absolute, for the water line between
the point of diversion and the point of use.
   DOMESTIC USE. Water used for all domestic purposes including, but not
limited to, human and pet consumption, bathing, food preparation, and personal
and household hygiene, and for the irrigation of not more than one-half acre of
landscaping.
   POINT OF DIVERSION. The surveyed location of where water is diverted from
Woahink Lake.
   POINT OF USE. The surveyed location of where water diverted from Woahink
Lake is actually used.
   STANDARD WATER METER. The standard water meter shall be five-eighths inch by
three-fourths inch diameter with a minimum 12 inches rectangular water box, or
as otherwise designated by the city.
   SURVEY. Creating a longitudinal and latitudinal position for a point of
diversion and a point of use to a survey grade accuracy.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES. A for-profit corporation or other entity,
including homeowner associations, that has 15 or more service connections used
by year-round residents, or that regularly serves 25 or more year-round
residents.
   WATER METER. An instrument for measuring the volume of water flowing through
a point during a fixed period of time.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016; Ord. 234, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 51.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   Drawing and using Woahink Lake water without a properly issued state permit
or without an approved permit to participate in the city’s Shared Domestic
Water Right Program is prohibited.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   New applicant. A property owner desiring or required by the state to
apply for a permit to utilize the city’s domestic water right permit for
diversion of water from Woahink Lake to serve property within the city, who has
not already been diverting water from Woahink Lake without a permit, must make
application to the city on forms provided by the city. The application must be
accompanied by an application fee as set by the City Council, and include a
survey prepared by a state licensed surveyor designating each point of
diversion and each proposed place of use. No more than two points of diversion
per tax lot will be permitted.
   (B)   Existing non-permitted applicant. A property owner desiring or
required by the state to apply for a permit to utilize the city’s domestic
water right permit for diversion of water from Woahink Lake to serve property
within the city, who has been diverting water from Woahink Lake without a
permit, must make application to the city on forms provided by the city. The
application must be accompanied by an application fee and penalty as set by the
City Council, and include a survey prepared by a state licensed surveyor
designating each point of diversion and each proposed place of use. No more
than two points of diversion per tax lot will be permitted.
   (C)   Reservation applicant. A property owner desiring to reserve the right
to utilize the city’s domestic water right permit for diversion of water from
Woahink Lake to serve property within the city upon which future development
will take place must make application to the city on forms provided by the
city. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as set by the
City Council. Prior to construction of any residential or commercial building
upon the property, a survey must be prepared by a state licensed surveyor and
submitted to the city designating each point of diversion and each proposed
place of use. No more than two points of diversion per tax lot will be
permitted.
   (D)   Water distribution companies. A for-profit corporation, or other
entity, including homeowner associations, that has 15 or more service
connections used by year-round residents, or that regularly serves 25 or more
year-round residents, that desires to apply for a permit to utilize the city’s
domestic water right permit for diversion of water from Woahink Lake to serve
property within the city, and that has not already been diverting water under
an existing the city domestic water right permit, must make application to the
city on forms provided by the city. The application must be accompanied by an
application fee as set by the City Council, and include a survey prepared by a
state licensed surveyor designating each point of diversion and each proposed
place of use. No more than two points of diversion per tax lot will be
permitted.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016; Ord. 234, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 51.05 AGREEMENT REQUIRED; PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Any approved applicant for participation in the city shared domestic water
supply must sign an agreement with the city for use of the city’s water right
under the terms of the city’s state permit. The executed agreement will be
recorded with the County Recorder and will thereafter run as an appurtenance to
the land. Costs and fees associated with the preparation and recording of the
agreement shall be collected at the time of execution of the agreement, and
shall be paid by the applicant.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.06 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any time a property that was granted a permit to participate in the
city shared domestic water supply prior to the effective date of this chapter,
is sold or otherwise transfers ownership, the new owner or owners of said
property must execute a agreement as required under §
51.05.
   (B)   Any time a property that has been granted a permit to participate in
the city shared domestic water supply, and has a recorded agreement as
described in §
51.05, must file a transfer of ownership form with the city on forms provided
by the city. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as set
by the City Council, as well as a copy of the document that conveyed title to
the property to the new owner(s).
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.07 FEES AND COSTS.
   They City Council shall, by resolution, establish an application fee to
cover the full expense of sharing its domestic water right with property owners
and water distribution companies; said expense shall include, but may not be
limited to, the application fee with the State Department of Water Resources
for the amendment to the city’s water right, surveying expenses, legal
expenditures, extension fees, recording fees and administrative costs. The City
Council will also impose, by resolution, an annual fee to cover water meter
reading, the maintenance of records, reporting costs and other necessary
administrative costs. The City Council may also impose, by resolution, a charge
for water use by water distribution companies based on volume of water used.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.08 NEW METERS.
   From and after the date of adoption of this subchapter, property owners and
water distribution companies issued a permit or permits to participate in the
city’s Shared Domestic Water Right Program must install, or allow the city, or
its designee, to install, metering devices to measure the volume of water being
diverted to the property for domestic purposes. A meter must be installed for
every point of diversion. Meters must be located in an easily accessible and
visible location between the pump and the water treatment system on the outside
of any structures, but in any event, the system must measure the volume of all,
to the greatest extent possible, of the water used on the property for all
purposes.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.09 RELOCATION OF EXISTING METERS.
   During its budget process, the city will identify the number of inaccessible
meters to be moved during the coming fiscal year. Property owners must allow
the city, or its designees, to enter on to the property for purposes of
relocating the meters to an easily accessible and visible location on the
outside of any structures. Failure to allow the city access to the property may
result in revocation of the permit to participate in the City Shared Domestic
Water Right Program.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.10 DOMESTIC WATER QUALITY, QUANTITY.
   The city does not warrant or otherwise guarantee the quality or quantity of
the water diverted through the use of its domestic water right.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.11 PAYMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   Payment of fees, as described in §
51.03, must be received by the City Recorder within 30 calendar days of the
mailing of invoice. The annual fee shall be $100 and will increase yearly by
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) at time of invoicing each subsequent year.
Failure to pay the annual fee within 90 calendar days after its due date may
result in the imposition of additional penalties and a lien against the
property or properties benefitting from the water permit, in accordance with
the process delineated in Chapter 36.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016; Res. 2025, No. 5, passed 6-18-2025)
§ 51.12 WATER USAGE REPORTING.
   (A)   (1)   Property owners and water distribution companies sharing the
city’s domestic water right are responsible for reporting water usage on a
monthly basis, or at intervals otherwise designated by the city.
      (2)   Reporting may be by telephone, personal contact, electronic
message, or by mail. If a property owner has not reported a meter reading
within 60 days of the month that it is due, the city may contract to have the
meter read and the property owner billed for that service, and may levy a
penalty against the property owner.
   (B)   The city will contract to have the meters read once a year on
residential properties not served by a water distribution company. Property
owners holding valid permits must allow meter readers onto their property for
purposes of reading the meters. If the meter is located in an inaccessible
location, the meter readers will contact the property owners to make
arrangements to have the meters read. Failure to allow the city meter readers
onto the property for purposes of reading the meters may result in revocation
of the permit to participate in the city’s Shared Domestic Water Right Program.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.13 USE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Property owners identified or suspected of drawing water from Woahink Lake
without a City Shared Domestic Water Right permit will be reported to the state
enforcement authority for further investigation and possible disciplinary
action.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A penalty of $1,000 per year, from and after the date of enactment of
§§
51.01 through
51.13, is assessed against any property owner who has been drawing water from
Woahink Lake without a permit to use the city’s Shared Domestic Water Right
Program. This penalty is in addition to any penalty that accrued since the date
of enactment of Ord. 192, that is, April 12, 2003. Such penalty will be
collected in accordance with the terms of Chapter 36. Said penalty must be
fully paid at the time of application for permit to participate in the city’s
Shared Domestic Water Right Program. Failure to pay said penalty will result in
denial of the permit.
(Ord. 231-A, passed 2-11-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   [Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Jurisdiction and control over public rights-of-way
Regulations
   
90.10   Permit for public and private excavations; bond
   
90.11   Permits and rules for excavations in public right-of-way
   
90.12   Heavy equipment on streets
   
90.13   Driveways
   
90.14   Enforcement of regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Local improvements, see
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 JURISDICTION AND CONTROL OVER PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENCROACH. To trespass, invade, or enter in or into by gradual steps or by
stealth an activity, or undertaking by unwarranted or unlawful incursion.
      OCCUPY. To take possession of by use, or control by use, including, but
not limited to, installation of utilities (for example, water lines, power
lines, and the like); or uses specifically permitted or conditionally allowed
as defined in the city zoning ordinances.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Includes, but is not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements, and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over these
areas.
      WITHIN THE CITY. Territory over which the city now has or acquires
jurisdiction for the exercise of its powers.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory
control over all public rights-of-way within the city including, but not
limited to, grading and excavating, tree and vegetation removal, or other city
regulatory ordinances under the authority of the City Charter and state law.
   (C)   Scope of regulatory control. The city has jurisdiction and exercises
regulatory control over each public right-of-way whether the city has a fee,
easement, or other legal interest in the right-of-way. The city has
jurisdiction and regulatory control over each right-of-way whether the legal
interest in the right-of-way was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription,
reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosure, or other means.
   (D)   City permission requirement. No person may occupy or encroach on a
public right-of-way without the permission of the city. The city grants
permission to use rights-of-way by franchises, licenses, and permits.
   (E)   Obligations of the city. The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory
control over a public right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of
the right-of-way, and does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part
of the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 155, passed 5-8-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Franchises, see
Chapter 110
REGULATIONS
§ 90.10 PERMIT FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EXCAVATIONS; BOND.
   (A)   No person shall excavate a road, a public or private right-of-way, or
any other type of excavation until a permit is obtained from the City Recorder.
Within five business days following the submission of a completed application,
the City Building Inspector shall inspect the proposed excavation prior to
making a recommendation regarding its approval. Notwithstanding the inspection
provided for by this section, it is the sole responsibility of the applicant or
applicants to ensure that the excavation complies with all applicable law.
   (B)   The applicant’s licensed contractor must hold a surety bond in the
amount of $1,000 or a bond must be posted in the amount of $1,000. Said bond
shall remain in effect for a period of one year. The bond shall be for the
purpose of ensuring that the street is restored to a level surface and remains
level for a period of one year. The city will give the applicant notice of any
violations and a ten-day opportunity to repair the defect. If the applicant
does not correct the deficiency within ten days, or within a longer time period
if allowed by the city, the city will then be entitled to repair the street and
move against the bond.
(Prior Code, § 90.10) (Ord. 106, passed 12-11-1986; Ord. 121, passed 3-9-1989;
Ord. 135, passed 8-14-1992) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 PERMITS AND RULES FOR EXCAVATIONS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Prior to excavating within a right-of-way dedicated to the public and
situated within the city, a person shall obtain a permit from the City
Recorder’s office.
   (B)   The Recorder shall grant or deny a permit within 14 days following
submission of a completed permit application. A permit may be denied if the
applicant has damaged city streets in the past or has committed past violations
of this subchapter or any preceding ordinance regulating construction
activities in the city streets. A denial may be appealed to the Council in the
manner prescribed for a suspension in §
90.14.
   (C)   Any street, surface, or adjacent ditches and rights-of-way disturbed
by excavation projects shall be returned to their original condition within
five working days after work ceases on the project.
   (D)   The applicant is responsible for identifying the city right-of-way and
its location on the site to be excavated. If there is a dispute between
adjacent landowners about the exact location of the right-of-way, the city may
require the applicant to obtain a survey acceptable to the city. The city shall
have the exclusive right to designate where in the right-of-way the proposed
excavation may occur.
   (E)   In granting a permit, the city assumes no responsibility for the
correctness of the survey or other method used to identify the existence of the
right-of-way.
   (F)   If the applicant varies from the terms of a permit, the rights of the
applicant to continue development under the permit may be immediately suspended
by the Building Inspector. The applicant may appeal a suspension by notifying
the Road Commission Chairperson. Within 24 hours, the Road Commission
Chairperson shall notify the Mayor of the appeal, or if the Mayor is not
available, the Council member designated to act in the Mayor’s behalf. Within
five business days of the notice to the Mayor, the Council will hold a hearing
on the appeal. At the appeal, the applicant may appear and offer evidence. The
Council will render a written opinion stating the basis of its decision, if
requested by the applicant at the time of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 90.11) (Ord. 106, passed 12-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 HEAVY EQUIPMENT ON STREETS.
   (A)   Use on paved streets.
      (1)   No person shall use lug equipment on paved or oiled streets.
      (2)   No person shall load or unload lug equipment on paved or oiled
streets. Loading or unloading of lug equipment is permitted on gravel streets.
Any damage to streets, including damage to drainage ditches, culverts, and
other parts of the right-of-way, caused by loading or unloading of lug
equipment shall be repaired within five working days after the damage.
      (3)   When it is necessary for lug equipment to traverse across an oiled
or paved street from one side to the other, the operator of the vehicle shall
take preventive measures to ensure that the street is adequately protected.
   (B)   Maintenance of equipment. No person shall repair, service, or perform
maintenance or other similar activities on construction and logging equipment
on the streets of the city, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 90.12) (Ord. 106, passed 12-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 DRIVEWAYS.
   All driveways in the city shall be constructed or maintained so that they do
not form an impediment to natural drainage. They shall have culverts installed
to service existing ditches or to provide for future ditches which may be
installed by the city. A driveway shall not collect, retain, or back up the
flow of surface water and create puddles, marshes, swamps, or any other similar
collection of undesirable water on, upon, or near city streets and roads. It is
the responsibility of the property owner on which the driveway exists to ensure
that the driveway complies with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 90.13) (Ord. 106, passed 12-11-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If the Council determines that a violation of this subchapter may
exist, it shall direct a member of the Road Commission to inspect the site and
determine whether there is a violation. The member shall prepare a list of
suggested steps necessary to correct the deficiency.
   (B)   If the member reports that a nuisance exists, the Road Commission may
direct the applicant and contractor to abate the nuisance by taking action
suggested by the inspector.
   (C)   If an agreement is not reached regarding the appropriate remedy of the
situation, the nuisance may be abated pursuant to the city ordinance regarding
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 90.14) (Ord. 106, passed 12-11-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 91  
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of a provision of §§
90.10 through
90.14 is punishable as provided in Chapter 36. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate violation. Imposition of a penalty pursuant to
this division (B) shall not preclude the city from using the nuisance abatement
process described in §
90.14.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 106, passed 12-11-1986)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Purpose and process
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Nuisances declared
   
91.04   Animals
   
91.05   Nuisances affecting public health and safety
   
91.06   Vegetation and vision obstructions
   
91.07   Fences
   
91.08   Buildings and structures
   
91.09   Dangerous excavations
   
91.10   Nuisances affecting the public peace
   
91.11   Chronic nuisance property
   
91.12   Code enforcement
§ 91.01 PURPOSE AND PROCESS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health and safety and
to improve the aesthetics of the city by eliminating health and safety hazards
and prohibiting or restricting conditions and actions that adversely impact the
beauty and livability of the city. The nuisance process described in this
chapter is intended to abate ongoing conditions, which is to lessen, reduce, or
remove such conditions. But some nuisances may be of short duration, and the
civil infraction process may be used to impose sanctions on those responsible
for the nuisance, whether or not the nuisance abatement process is also used.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. A barrier intended to prevent escape or intrusion or to mark a
boundary. A FENCE may consist of wood, metal, masonry, plastic, or similar
materials, or a hedge or other planting arranged to form a visual or physical
barrier.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle which has no current valid state vehicle
registration, or which cannot be moved without being repaired or dismantled, or
which is no longer usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The person responsible for abating a nuisance includes
the owner, the person in charge of property as defined in this section, and the
person who caused a nuisance, as defined in this chapter or another ordinance
of the city, to come into or continue in existence.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, place, or accommodation, whether publicly- or
privately-owned, open and available to the general public.
   SCREENED AND FENCED. Surrounded by a fence to prevent unauthorized entry
into an area and effectively screened from view from public rights-of-way and
adjacent properties.
   STREET. The area within the right-of-way improved for vehicular travel,
including bike lanes and motor vehicle travel lanes.
   VERMIN. Wild or feral animals normally considered to be pests such as rats,
mice, raccoons, and possums.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025)
§ 91.03 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following actions or omissions are declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   The acts, conditions, or objects specifically enumerated in this
chapter or designated a nuisance by city code or ordinance;
   (B)   Violations of the zoning ordinance and any failure to comply with a
condition of a land use approval;
   (C)   Violation of any ordinance imposing health, safety, or sanitary
standards for housing; and
   (D)   Real property where chronic unlawful activities occur, or where those
chronic unlawful activities result from the use of the real property.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person may permit an animal or bird owned or controlled by the
person to be at large if the animal or bird is known to be afflicted with a
communicable disease or is a dangerous animal.
   (B)   No person may permit livestock or poultry to run at large within the
city nor permit any barn, stable, chicken coop or other similar structure to
cause an odor noticeable at the property line of the property.
   (C)   No person may permit any fowl or animal carcass owned by him or under
his or her control to remain upon the public streets or places, or to be
exposed on private property, for a period of time longer than is reasonably
necessary to remove or dispose of such carcass.
   (D)   No person shall scatter or deposit any food or other attractants on
public or private property with the intent of attracting and/or feeding wild
animals. This division (D) does not apply to birdseed held in receptacles that
are reasonably designed to avoid access by wild animals.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   No person may permit or cause a nuisance affecting public health or safety.
Nuisances affecting public health or safety include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Privies and improperly functioning septic system. An open vault or
privy, cesspool, or improperly maintained septic tank that causes odor or
improper disposal of wastes. Portable privies placed on a temporary basis in
connection with construction projects or temporary events in accordance with
the State Board of Health regulations are not nuisances, and portable privies
placed with city approval are not nuisances;
   (B)   Debris.
      (1)   Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure, junk, and other refuse
located on private property or right-of-way that is not removed within a
reasonable time. A reasonable time for materials that can be disposed of
through normal solid waste collection is one week. A reasonable time for other
materials is 30 days.
      (2)   Unprotected garbage or refuse. Garbage or refuse stored or allowed
to remain outdoors other than in receptacle that provides protection from
weather and animals, including garbage or refuse that overflow from trash cans
or dumpsters. A trash can or dumpster will be considered to be overflowing if
the lid cannot be fully closed because due to the accumulation of garbage. For
purpose of this section, construction waste is not considered garbage or
refuse;
   (C)   Junk machinery, junk vehicles, and inoperable vehicles. More than one
piece of junk machinery, junk vehicle, and/or inoperable vehicle that are not
removed within 30 days. Junk machinery, junk vehicles, and inoperable vehicles
within an enclosed building and those that are screened and fenced on the
premises are exempt from this section;
   (D)   Stagnant water. Stagnant water which affords a breeding place or
drinking source for mosquitoes, insects, and other insect pests on private
property;
   (E)   Water pollution. Pollution of a body of water, surface water,
groundwater, well, spring, stream or drainage ditch by sewage, industrial
wastes or other hazardous substances placed in or near such water without
necessary permits in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the
water;
   (F)   Odor. Premises that are not properly maintained so that they are in a
state or condition that causes an offensive odor;
   (G)   Smoke, fumes, cinders, and dust. Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas,
soot, cinders, or dust in unreasonable quantities and not associated with
cooking. Reasonableness shall take into account the purpose of the action
resulting in the smoke, fumes, soot or cinders and the availability of
alternatives;
   (H)   Properties declared unfit for use. Property placed on the Oregon
Health Division unfit for use list because it has been used for the manufacture
of illegal drugs and that has not been issued a certificate of fitness by the
Oregon Health Division;
   (I)   Unsafe buildings. No person shall permit a building owned by the
person to be in an unsafe condition, as defined in the building code of the
State;
   (J)   Appliances and containers. No person may leave an abandoned,
unattended or discarded appliance or similar container which has a door with a
snap lock or lock or other mechanism which may not be released for opening from
the inside, without first removing the lock or door; and
   (K)   Littering.
      (1)   Discarding or depositing any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris,
litter or other refuse upon the land of another without permission of the
owner, or upon any right-of-way, park, or other public property, other than in
a receptacle intended for refuse collection, and then only if the receptacle is
intended for public use or with the permission of the person in charge of the
receptacle.
      (2)   Draining, or causing or permitting to be drained, sewage or the
drainage from a cesspool, septic tank, recreational or camping vehicle waste
holding tank, or other contaminated source, upon the land of another without
permission of the owner, or upon any public way.
      (3)   Discarding any lighted tobacco product, matches, or other lighted
material.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 VEGETATION AND VISION OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The following things, practices, or conditions on any property are
nuisances;
   (A)   Grass, thistles, cockleburs, weeds, or scotch broom greater than eight
inches in height or taller are a fire hazard. The city shall have discretion to
not enforce this section based on the totality of circumstances, including the
type and location of the property, whether the property is appropriately left
in a natural state, whether the property has even been cleared without
appropriate measure to prevent invasive plant species, and other similar
factors; and
   (B)   Dead, decaying, or unsafe trees or tree limbs that present a safety
hazard to the public or adjacent property.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 FENCES.
   (A)   No person may construct or maintain a barbed-wire fence or allow
barbed wire to remain as a part of a fence along a public way. Fences that
include barbed wire above a level at least six feet above ground level and
placed and maintained by a governmental entity for the purpose of public safety
or security are exempt from this section.
   (B)   No person may install, maintain, or operate an electric fence along a
street, or along the adjoining property line of another person.
   (C)   Improperly maintained fences are nuisances. A fence is improperly
maintained if components are missing or loose, or the fence is sagging, leaning
or otherwise not in good repair.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Improperly maintained buildings or structures. An improperly
maintained building or structure is a nuisance. An improperly maintained
building is one that is an obviously dilapidated state, such as a building or
structure that has:
      (1)   A substantial amount of missing siding, roofing or other component.
A building with a temporary covering such as a tarp or plywood for more than 30
days is considered to have missing siding or roofing; or
      (2)   Has missing windows, doors, or screens that are not properly
attached or that do not properly close.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the outdoor lighting standards are intended to
produce efficient, effective, attractive outdoor lighting that is appropriate
to the need and prevents glare. The standards are designed to:
      (1)   Provide for nighttime safety, utility, security and productivity
while conserving energy and other resources;
      (2)   Minimize glare, light trespass and light pollution; and
      (3)   Curtail the degradation of the nighttime environment to enhance
citizens’ enjoyment and protect the natural cycles of plants and animals that
require darkness at night in order to thrive.
   (C)   Applicability of outdoor lighting standards. The installation of
outdoor lighting fixtures shall be subject to the lighting standards listed in
division (B) above.
   (D)   Shielding. All lighting fixtures shall be cutoff and additional
shielding shall be required, as necessary, to direct the light within the
boundaries of the development site. Fixtures for exterior illumination of
signs, including signs attached to a building, shall be top-mounted as well as
shielded to aim the light downward on the sign only.
   (E)   Prohibited types of lights. Decorative lasers, continuously flashing
lights and searchlights are prohibited. The city is an intrinsically dark area
and low ambient light area, high pressure sodium lights, mercury vapor lights,
and flood lights are prohibited, except when used to illuminate walkways and
bike paths in compliance with applicable standards.
   (F)   Exemptions to lighting standards. The following lighting fixtures are
exempt from meeting these lighting standards:
      (1)   Lighting on public streets owned and operated by Lincoln PUD;
      (2)   A lighting fixture that does not exceed 1,500 lumens when the light
is directed within the boundaries of the development site;
      (3)   Emergency lighting;
      (4)   Lighting fixtures that must conform with federal or state
regulations, such as airport runway lights, TV and radio transmission towers,
telecommunication towers and railroad lights;
      (5)   Holiday lights and decorations in place shall not cause excessive
glare;
      (6)   Temporary lighting installed for permitted temporary activities;
      (7)   Lighting for governmental flags; and
      (8)   Temporary lighting necessary for construction sites.
   (G)   Low ambient light areas. Low ambient light areas shall consist of land
zoned R-1 Residential, C-C Community Commercial, or Open Space, unless
determined to have a high level of nighttime activity and any other zone not
specifically listed. These areas are discouraged from providing lighting except
where it is desirable to illuminate walkways, bike paths, parking lots or other
areas to be used after dark. Where lighting is to be provided for all areas
except parking lots, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   Walkways or pathways shall be illuminated to a minimum average
maintained luminance of 0.3 foot-candle and not to exceed a maximum average-
maintained luminance of 0.9 foot-candle; and
      (2)   Any other lighting fixtures not illuminating walkways, bike paths,
or parking lots shall be designed to direct light downward, and light sources
shall have an initial output of no more than 1,500 lumens.
   (H)   Parking lot lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed to
provide the minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate vision and comfort in
parking areas, and not to cause glare or direct illumination onto adjacent
properties or streets. Parking lot lighting shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   All lighting fixtures serving parking lots shall be cut-off
fixtures as defined by the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America
(IESNA) and as defined in the Land Development Code;
      (2)   Areas designated as parking or passive vehicle storage areas shall
be illuminated in accordance with the requirements for parking areas suggested
elsewhere in this section;
      (3)   Light fixtures shall include cut-off fixtures, and shall be
located, mounted, and aimed; and
      (4)   To the extent practicable, lighting fixtures shall be directed
downward (i.e., below the horizontal) rather than upward.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 DANGEROUS EXCAVATIONS.
   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow an excavation with a
depth of four feet or more and a top width of 12 inches or more to be unguarded
in the absence of suitable barriers, with warning lights or area lighting to be
provided during hours of darkness.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 NUISANCES AFFECTING THE PUBLIC PEACE.
   No person shall produce or permit to be produced, with a sound producing
device, sound which when measured at the boundary of the adjacent property, the
source of the sound exceeds:
   (A)   Fifty dBA between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (B)   Eighty dBA between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
   (C)   Ninety dBA between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. for
construction, and landscaping companies; or
   (D)   Except during storm cleanup, power outages, disaster response or any
other emergency response.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.11CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any real property within the city that becomes a chronic nuisance
property is in violation of this chapter and subject to remedies.
   (B)   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY means:
      (1)   Property upon which the owner or person in charge of property
permits three or more separate incidents listed below to occur within any 30-
day period, or five or more separate incidents listed below within any 90-day
period, at least one of which separate incidents must have resulted in a fine;
      (2)   Property, the use of which has a causal relation to three or more
separate incidents listed below occurring within any 30-day period, or five or
more separate incidents listed below within any 90-day period, at least one of
which separate incidents must have resulted in a fine, and all of which
occurred within 100 feet of the boundary line of the subject property; or
      (3)   Any combination of separate incidents as specified in division (B)
(1) or (B)(2) above which amounts to three or more separate incidents listed
below occurring within any 30-day period, or five or more separate incidents
listed below within any 90-day period, at least one of which separate incidents
must have resulted in a fine.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.12 CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   See
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 270, passed 6-4-2025)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   State law
   
92.002   Definitions
   
92.003   Entry onto private land
   
92.004   Uses of a watchdog
   
92.005   Initialing a false report
   
92.006   Resisting Code Enforcement Officer, peace officer
   
92.007   Interference with police animal
   
92.008   Animal euthanasia
   
92.009   Dead animals; removal of carcasses
Abuse, Neglect
   
92.020   Animal abuse
   
92.021   Animal neglect
   
92.022   Exemptions
   
92.023   Animal abandonment
   
92.024   Forfeiture of rights
Impoundment
   
92.035   Care of stray animals
   
92.036   Impoundment of animals
   
92.037   Failure to surrender animal
   
92.038   Impounding regulations, disposition of impounded animals
   
92.039   Impoundment; redemption, sale
Licensing
   
92.050   Licenses, fees, exceptions
   
92.051   Kennel license
Dangerous Animals; Quarantine
   
92.065   Reporting of biting animals
   
92.066   Biting, rabid animals; quarantine
   
92.067   Sick, injured animals
   
92.068   Potentially dangerous dog
   
92.069   Identification of potentially dangerous dogs; appeals, restrictions
   
92.070   Regulation of potentially dangerous dogs
   
92.071   Dangerous animals
   
92.072   Right to kill a dog
Animals as Nuisances
   
92.085   Dogs at large prohibited
   
92.086   Continuous annoyance
   
92.087   Livestock not to run at large
   
92.088   Dog waste matter
   
92.089   Dogs in season
Other Prohibitions
   
92.100   Possession of fighting animals
   
92.101   Capturing, killing dogs, cats
   
92.102   Possession of a stolen animal
   
92.103   Parking, tethering horses on streets prohibited
   
92.104   Selling, trading, bartering, giving away animals in certain locations
prohibited
   
92.105   Sale of baby chicks, ducklings, goslings, rabbits
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 STATE LAW.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Animal Control Code.” The purpose of the
Animal Control Code is to supersede, to the greatest extent allowed by law, the
provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 609 by providing rules and regulations governing
the keeping, licensing, and control of dogs. These chapter provisions do not
supersede O.R.S. 609.156, 609.162, and 609.168.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any non-human mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish.
   ANIMAL AGENCY. Any public or private organization whether called a pound,
kennel, shelter, society, or the like, that controls, shelters, cares for, or
disposes of dogs and cats as all or a part of the purposes of the organization.
ANIMAL AGENCY does not include a veterinarian in private practice. ANIMAL
AGENCY does include the agency’s officers, agents, and employees when acting in
the name of or on behalf of the agency.
   ANIMAL SUSCEPTIBLE TO RABIES. Any domesticated animal that has not been
properly vaccinated against rabies. This also includes any raccoons, skunks,
foxes, or coyotes.
   BITE. To seize or take hold of an area of the body, be it animal or human,
clothed, or unclothed, with teeth or jaws. A BITE does not necessary have to
result in breaking of the skin or creation of a wound.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her
duly appointed and acting designee.
   DOG. Any mammal of the Canidae family.
   DOG-OFF-LEASH AREA. Any area within a city park designated by the City
Council or the City Council’s designee as an area in which dogs may be allowed
to run off leash.
   DOG OWNER.
      (1)   Any person who is the licensed owner of a dog, or who has a right
of property in a dog, or who harbors a dog or who has it in his or her care,
possession, custody, or control, or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on
any premises occupied by the person. Except for purposes of §§
92.072 and 92.090 herein, OWNER does not include veterinarians or commercial
kennel operators temporarily maintaining on their premises for a period less
than 30 calendar days dogs owned by other persons.
      (2)   Any person, except a veterinarian or commercial kennel operator,
who resides where a dog is kept, harbored, or cared for shall be presumed to be
the owner of that dog. This presumption may be rebutted by proof that such
person has no property right in the dog, is not the licensed owner, and is
neither harboring nor caring for the dog.
   EUTHANASIA. Putting an animal to death in a humane manner by a licensed
veterinarian or a certified euthanasia technician.
   FIELD TRAINING. A dog on exhibition in a dog show or a dog in obedience or
field training exercises which is out of general automobile traffic and under
the direct supervision of a handler who has in the handler’s possession, proof
of obedience title or certificate of obedience for the animal in question.
   GOOD ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. Includes, but is not limited to, the dehorning of
cattle, the docking of horses, sheep, or swine, and the castration or neutering
of livestock, according to accepted practices of veterinary medicine or animal
husbandry.
   LEASH. Any humane device constructed of rope, leather strap, chain, or other
sturdy material not exceeding eight feet in length, being held in the hand of a
person capable of controlling the animal to which it is attached.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, any cattle, llama, sheep, horse,
goat, swine, fowl, and any fur-bearing animal bred and maintained commercially
or otherwise within pens, cages, or hutches.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material, or metal placed over
an animal’s mouth to prevent the animal from biting any person or animal. The
MUZZLE must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog, or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   NEUTERED. The removal of the ovaries and uterus, ovarian hysterectomy, in
female dogs. The removal of the male gonads in male dogs. Any other method of
neutering a dog which is certified and performed by a licensed veterinarian.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL. An establishment or premises where three or more
dogs, over six months of age, are kept or maintained. Nor more than two of the
dogs shall be used for breeding. The term does not include any animal hospital.
   PEACE OFFICER. The same meaning given that term in O.R.S. 133.005 and
includes a member of the State Police, a Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff, and a city
police officer.
   PET or DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is owned or possessed by a person,
other than livestock.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. Impairment of physical condition or substantial pain.
   POLICE ANIMAL. A dog or horse used in police work under the control of a
peace officer, as defined in O.R.S. 161.015, who has successfully qualified in
the care and use of a police animal as required by state statutes, whether or
not the animal is being so used at the time in question. Unless specifically
referred to therein, neither a police service animal nor the officer using it
is subject to any of the restrictions or regulations contained in this chapter.
   POSSESS. To have physical possession or otherwise to exercise dominion or
control over property.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS. A dog that has been found to engage in behavior
specified in § 92.073.
   PRIVATE PRACTICE OF VETERINARIAN MEDICINE. The private practice of
veterinarian medicine has its ordinary meaning, and includes private animal
hospitals or clinics under the supervision or control of a veterinarian. The
phrase also includes the agents and employees of a private animal hospital and
clinic when acting in the name of or on behalf of such hospital or clinic.
   PUT TO DEATH. The taking of an act or senes of actions for the purpose of
intentionally causing death.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. For violations of this chapter, the owner of a building
or property where a violation or failure to comply has occurred, the person in
charge of the building or property, the violator or the person failing to
comply with the city code, and where such person works for a contractor, either
as an employee, subcontractor, or independent contractor, the contractor and/or
other employer, and any licensee, permittee, or agent, manager, or person in
charge.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   A structure in which an animal is confined such that the animal
does not have access to humans or other animals.
      (2)   The STRUCTURE will not be less than eight feet long, four feet
wide, and five feet tall. If the floor is not concrete, the outside walls must
extend into the ground not less than one foot to prohibit the digging out of
the animal. The top of the STRUCTURE must be covered.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. Physical injury which creates a substantial risk of
death or which causes serious and protracted disfigurement, or protracted
impairment of health or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any
bodily organ.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed by the state to practice veterinary
medicine.
   WATCHDOG. A dog confined at a business for the exclusive use of protecting
people or property of said business.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.003 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE LAND.
   The City Code Enforcement Officer, or any peace officer, shall have the
privilege of entering onto private land in the course of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, but such shall not enter into any building or
dwelling without legal authorization or permission of the owner or occupant of
the premises.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.004 USES OF A WATCHDOG.
   Any business using a watchdog shall conspicuously post the premises to warn
the public of the watchdog. The dog shall not be allowed access to the public
that is on the property during business hours. If the dog is used outside of a
building, the property shall be fenced in a way to prohibit the dog access to
any public right-of-way and other property.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.005 INITIALING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of initiating a false report to the City
Code Enforcement Officer if a person contacts the City Code Enforcement
Officer, any city staff member, or any city elected official in person, by
telephone, in writing, by facsimile, or other means and reports a violation of
this Animal Control Code that the reporting person knows is false.
   (B)   Initiating a false report to the City Code Enforcement Officer or any
city staff member or elected official is a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 RESISTING CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   RESISTS, as used in this section, means the use or threatened use of
violence, physical force, or any other means that creates a substantial risk of
physical injury to any person.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally resist someone known by them to be a
peace officer or the City Code Enforcement Officer who is enforcing any
provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Resisting the City Code Enforcement Officer or a peace officer is a
Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE ANIMAL.
   (A)   Interference with a police animal in the second degree.
      (1)   A person commits the crime of interference with a police animal in
the second degree if the person:
         (a)   Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly torments, interferes
with, or tampers with a police animal while the police animal is being used in
the lawful discharge of its duty;
         (b)   Intentionally torments or seeks to cause injury to a police
animal at any time if the person knows that the animal is a police animal; and/
or
         (c)   Causes or directs any animal to attack or otherwise interfere
with a police animal while the police animal is being used in the lawful
discharge of its duty. A peace officer may destroy an animal attacking a police
animal if no lesser means are reasonably available to prevent injury to the
police animal.
      (2)   Interference with a police animal in the second degree is a Class 2
violation.
   (B)   Interference with a police animal in the first degree. A person
commits the crime of interference with a police animal in the first degree if
the person intentionally or knowingly injures or attempts to injure an animal
the person knows or reasonably should know is a police animal while the police
animal is being used in the lawful discharge of its duty. Interference with a
police animal in the first degree is a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 ANIMAL EUTHANASIA.
   (A)   No animal agency may put to death a dog or cat by any means other than
an injection of sodium pentobarbital administered by a veterinarian, animal
technician, or person licensed by the State Veterinary Medical Examining Board
to administer sodium pentobarbital.
   (B)   No veterinarian or private practice of veterinarian medicine may put
to death a dog or cat under the veterinarian’s care, custody, or control by any
means other than the injection of a drug administered by the veterinarian or
animal technician.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a Class 3 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.009 DEAD ANIMALS; REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   No person shall knowingly permit an animal carcass owned by that person to
remain on public property or to be exposed on private property. Violation of
this section is a Class 4 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
ABUSE, NEGLECT
§ 92.020 ANIMAL ABUSE.
   (A)   Animal abuse in the second degree. A person commits the offense of
animal abuse in the second degree if, except as otherwise authorized by law,
the person causes physical injury to an animal. Animal abuse in the second
degree is a Class 2 violation.
   (B)   Animal abuse in the first degree.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of animal abuse in the first degree
if, except as otherwise authorized by law, the person:
         (a)   Causes serious physical injury to an animal; or
         (b)   Cruelly causes the death of an animal.
      (2)   Animal abuse in the first degree is a Class 1 violation.
   (C)   Husbandry. Any practice of good animal husbandry is not a violation of
this section.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.021 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   (A)   Minimum care required. As used in this section, MINIMUM CARE means
care sufficient to preserve the health and well-being of an animal and, except
for emergencies or circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the owner,
includes, but is not limited to, the following requirements:
      (1)   Food of sufficient quantity and quality to allow for normal growth
or maintenance of body weight;
      (2)   Open or adequate access to potable water in sufficient quantity to
satisfy the animal’s needs. Snow or ice is not an adequate water source;
      (3)   In case of pets or domestic animals, access to a barn, dog house,
or other enclosed structure sufficient to protect the animal from wind, rain,
snow, or sun and which has adequate bedding to protect against cold and
dampness; and
      (4)   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve distress from injury, neglect, or disease.
   (B)   Confinement.
      (1)   Pet or domestic animals shall not be confined to an area without
adequate space for exercise necessary for the health of the animal or which
does not allow access to a dry place for the animal to rest.
      (2)   The air temperature in a confinement area must be suitable for the
animal involved. Confinement areas must be kept reasonably clean and free from
excess waste or other contaminants that could affect the animal’s health.
   (C)   Animal neglect in the second degree.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of animal neglect in the second degree
if, except as otherwise authorized by law, the person fails to provide minimum
care for an animal in such person’s custody or control.
      (2)   Animal neglect in the second degree is a Class 2 violation.
   (D)   Animal neglect in the first degree.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of animal neglect in the first degree
if, except as otherwise authorized by law, the person:
         (a)   Fails to provide minimum care for an animal in such person’s
custody or control; and
         (b)   Such failure to provide care results in serious physical injury
or death to the animal.
      (2)   Animal neglect in the first degree is a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.022 EXEMPTIONS.
   Unless gross negligence can be shown, the provisions of §§ 92.025 and 92.026
shall not apply to the treatment of livestock being transported by owner or
common carrier, animals involved in rodeos or similar exhibits, or commercially
grown poultry.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.023 ANIMAL ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of animal abandonment if the person
leaves a domesticated animal at a location without providing for the animal’s
continued care.
      (2)   Animal abandonment is a Class 3 violation.
   (B)   It is no defense to the offense defined in division (A) above that the
animal was abandoned at or near an animal shelter, veterinary clinic, or other
place of shelter if reasonable arrangements were not made for the care of the
animal.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.024 FORFEITURE OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other penalty allowed pursuant
to city code, the City Code Enforcement Officer may require a person found to
be guilty of the violations set forth in §§ 92.026 through 92.028 to forfeit
any rights of the person in the animal subjected to abuse, neglect, or
abandonment, and to repay the reasonable costs incurred by any person, the
city, or agency in caring for each animal subjected to abuse, neglect, or
abandonment.
   (B)   (1)   When the City Code Enforcement Officer orders a person’s rights
in the animal to be forfeited, the Code Enforcement Officer may further order
that those rights be given over to an animal regulation authority for further
disposition in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not constitute or authorize any limitation
upon the right of the animal regulation authority. A transfer of rights under
this division (B) constitutes a transfer of ownership.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 92.035 CARE OF STRAY ANIMALS.
   All persons must turn over to an animal regulation authority stray animals
immediately after the person exercises authority over the animal or must notify
the animal regulation authority and the city of the description of the animal
and the address where the animal is being kept and be prepared to retain
possession of the animal for up to three days after the animal regulation
authority and the city are so notified.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.036 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any peace officer or the City Code Enforcement Officer may impound an
animal that is in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An animal shall be impounded if an owner of the animal has not posted
bail or paid a fine for a violation of this chapter imposed by the Code
Enforcement Officer. For any animal so seized, the notice and disposition of
the animal shall be in the same manner as for licensed dogs under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person whose property has been trespassed upon by any dog in
violation of this chapter or who observes a dog trespassing upon the property
of another, or who observes a dog killing, chasing, or injuring livestock, may
immediately apprehend that dog and hold the dog until delivery to the City Code
Enforcement Officer or to any peace officer. Any person who so impounds a dog
must immediately notify the City Code Enforcement Officer of such impoundment.
No person who has impounded a dog under this division (C) shall fail to notify
the City Code Enforcement Officer immediately. Failure to comply with the
provisions of this division (C) is a Class 4 violation.
   (D)   If the City Code Enforcement Officer or a peace officer has probable
cause to believe that a dog is a potentially dangerous dog at Levels 1, 2, 3,
or 4, he or she may impound the dog. If the Code Enforcement Officer or peace
officer has probable cause to believe that the dog is a potentially dangerous
dog Level 5, then he or she shall impound the dog. The Code Enforcement Officer
or peace officer shall hold the dog until any appeal of the Code Enforcement
Officer’s decision on the classification is held pursuant to § 92.074 and a
final disposition rendered.
   (E)   If the Code Enforcement Officer or peace officer has probable cause to
believe that any animal, which is in an unoccupied motor vehicle, may be in
danger of dying, then they may enter the motor vehicle and impound the animal
and leave a notice in the vehicle where the animal may be reclaimed.
   (F)   (1)   If there is probable cause to believe that an animal is being
subjected to treatment in violation of §§ 92.025 through 92.028, the City Code
Enforcement Officer, or a peace officer, after obtaining a search warrant in
the manner authorized by law, may enter the premises where the animal is being
held, provide food and water, and impound such animal.
      (2)   If, after reasonable search, the owner or person having custody of
such animal cannot be found and notified of the impoundment, such notice shall
be conspicuously posted on such premises within 72 hours after the impoundment
and such notice shall be sent by certified mail to the address at which the
animal was impounded.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.037 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL.
   (A)   No person shall fail to surrender an animal to a person identifiable
as the City Code Enforcement Officer or a peace officer upon their demand, so
that the animal can be impounded or quarantined as provided for by this
chapter.
   (B)   Failure to surrender an animal is a Class 2 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038 IMPOUNDING REGULATIONS, DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Code Enforcement Officer, or any animal regulation
authority shall keep any animal impounded for the period of time herein
specified. A daily record of such animals shall be kept at the place of
impoundment and shall be made available to the public.
      (2)   The City Code Enforcement Officer or animal regulation authority
shall dispose of such animals in accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   An unlicensed dog or a dog for which the owner is unknown which
has not been redeemed within 72 hours after impoundment may be sold, adopted,
or destroyed.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(c) below, a licensed dog
for which the owner is known which has not been redeemed within 120 hours of
notification of the owner by telephone contact or by mailing or by email or by
posting at the owner’s dwelling, the impoundment notice, may be sold, adopted,
or destroyed.
         (c)   A licensed potentially dangerous dog for which the owner is
known may be destroyed if the owner, after receiving notice of impoundment as
provided in division (B) below:
            1.   Fails to notify the City Code Enforcement Officer within 120
hours of the owner’s intent to redeem the dog; or
            2.   Fails to redeem the dog or appeal the classification within
ten days.
      (3)   Except when state law mandates a different disposition procedure,
all animals other than dogs shall be disposed of as provided in division (A)(2)
above.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above, abandoned or
unwanted litters of animals aged two months or less may be destroyed
immediately or, in the alternative, adopted or sold to any person. This
provision does not apply to litters impounded following a search of premises as
provided in § 92.073.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) above, the City Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the owner by telephone or by the mailing of an impoundment
notice within 24 hours after impoundment that the animal will be destroyed
within 120 hours after such notification. The impoundment notice shall advise
the owner of the place where the animal is kept, the procedures required for
the redemption of the animal, the fees for impoundment, daily care and
redemption, and the consequences of failure to redeem the animal.
   (C)   Any animal unclaimed within 24 hours of an order authorizing
redemption or release shall be destroyed, adopted, or sold.
   (D)   If an order is entered by the City Code Enforcement Officer for an
animal to be destroyed, execution of the order may be stayed for up to five
years after the date of said order, providing that the dog owner and the city,
within ten days of the order, presents an agreement for approval to the City
Council signed by both parties and providing:
      (1)   For restitution to be paid to the person injured, if applicable,
including damages resulting from the injury to or destruction of livestock;
      (2)   For safeguards that will help to ensure that the animal does not
engage in such conduct again, including, but not limited to, requirements that
the owner build a run for the animal before it is released, fence their yard,
or have the animal live elsewhere in a secure setting, and agree not to own any
other animal on the property where the owner resides; and
      (3)   If the animal is found to be in violation of the safeguards that
have been imposed, it may be immediately impounded by the City Code Enforcement
Officer or his or her designee, or a peace officer or any other person, and
destroyed without further hearing, unless the animal owner requests a hearing
in writing to the City Council within 24 hours after the animal owner is
notified that the animal is impounded. If the owner cannot be personally
notified that the animal has been impounded, the animal may be destroyed four
days after a notice of impound is mailed to the owner’s last known address,
unless the owner requests a hearing before then. The hearing will be limited to
a determination as to whether the agreement has been violated.
   (E)   If an order is entered by the Code Enforcement Officer for an animal
to be destroyed, execution of the order shall be stayed for ten days to allow
the filing of a notice of appeal. In the event a notice of appeal is filed
within ten days, the animal shall not be destroyed until the disposition of the
appeal and only if the Code Enforcement Officer’s order is upheld.
   (F)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (E) above, any animal given to
the Code Enforcement Officer may be destroyed immediately or, in the
alternative, adopted, or sold to any person. The owner shall pay a fee for
handling the unwanted animal. For purposes of this section only, an OWNER is a
person who has had the animal in their care, possession, custody, or control
for six weeks or more.
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) above, certain sick or
injured animals may be destroyed immediately pursuant to the provisions of §
92.072.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.039 IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION, SALE.
   (A)   Redemption of an impounded animal shall be made by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and by paying the following required fees and
charges:
      (1)   Impoundment fee;
      (2)   Daily care fee;
      (3)   License and rabies vaccination fees, if required;
      (4)   Medical care fees, if required; and
      (5)   Potentially dangerous dog license fees, if required.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of this section, a dog that has been
classified as potentially dangerous shall not be released until the owner
presents to the Code Enforcement Officer sufficient evidence of compliance with
the restrictions imposed by § 92.073. The owner shall have ten days from the
time the owner receives the impoundment notice in which to comply with the
potentially dangerous dog restrictions. No dog impounded because of Level 5
behavior shall be released until the completion of any appeal requested by the
owner of the dog pursuant to §§ 92.073 and 92.074.
   (C)   Impounded animals may be sold, adopted, or destroyed after the
applicable holding time.
   (D)   When an animal is sold or adopted out by the City Code Enforcement
Officer, the purchaser or adopter shall pay any required license and rabies
vaccination fees.
   (E)   No impoundment charge shall be made for an animal released after:
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer’s determination that no violation
occurred;
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer’s decision is successfully appealed;
and
      (3)   A potentially dangerous dog classification is successfully
appealed.
   (F)   No live animal shall be used, sold or given by the City Code
Enforcement Officer for surgical or medical demonstration or research.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided, if after 72 hours an impounded animal
cannot be sold, the animal regulation authority is authorized and empowered to
destroy the animal by any humane method permitted under state law.
   (H)   If an animal is adopted or sold by the City Code Enforcement Officer,
or by any other agency which accepts unwanted or abandoned animals, the owner
must have the animal spayed or neutered within six months from the date of sale
if the animal is too young to be spayed or neutered immediately. If an animal
over six months old is adopted or sold by the Code Enforcement Officer or any
agency which accepts unwanted or abandoned animals, the animal shall be spayed
or neutered within one month after it is turned over to its new owner. Failure
of the new owner to comply with the provisions of this section is a Class 1
violation.
   (I)   No person who is the owner of an animal shall fail to reclaim it from
the City Code Enforcement Officer within the time specified in the notification
that the animal is ready to be released. A failure to comply with the terms of
this section is a Class 3 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
LICENSING
§ 92.050 LICENSES, FEES, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Dog licenses.
      (1)   The city authorizes the City Code Enforcement Officer to issue dog
licenses to residents of the city.
      (2)   Every owner of a dog that has a set of permanent canine teeth or
has attained the age of six months, whichever event occurs first, shall
immediately obtain a license for the dog. If the dog owner moves into the city
and the owner’s dog does not have a current dog license from another city or
county, the owner must obtain a license within five business days of moving
into the city.
      (3)   Licenses shall be valid for one, two, or three years from the date
of issuance or until the sale or gift of the dog, whichever first occurs.
      (4)   No license shall be issued until a certificate of vaccination for
rabies, valid for the term of the license is presented to the Code Enforcement
Officer.
      (5)   (a)   Dog owners shall renew the dog license before it becomes
delinquent for as long as they own the dog.
         (b)   A late fee may be charged if the license is renewed after it has
become more than 30 days delinquent.
      (6)   A license tag issued to a dog owner shall be attached securely to a
collar or harness on the dog for which it is issued. If a license tag is lost,
the owner may obtain a duplicate license tag upon satisfactory proof of loss
and payment of the required fee.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   The dog license fees shall be the set by resolution adopted by the
City Council and may be changed or amended from time to time, also by adopted
resolution of the City Council. The fee is due and payable upon the issuance of
the license. A person who purchases a kennel license does not have to license
the individual dogs as long as they live at the kennel.
      (2)   Also, a person who purchases a license for a commercial breeding
kennel need not also obtain a commercial kennel or non-commercial kennel
license, and a person who purchases a commercial kennel license need not obtain
a non-commercial kennel license if they choose to operate such a kennel.
   (C)   License fees, exceptions.
      (1)   (a)   No license fee shall be required for any dog owner who needs
and uses the dog as a service dog.
         (b)   A license shall be issued for such dog upon proper proof of
rabies vaccination, upon proper proof of doctor’s prescription advising the
owner needs a service or therapy dog, and upon filing of an affidavit by the
person confirming that the dog is currently trained to perform functions that
directly assist the owner with his or her disability. Such affidavit shall be
filed with the City Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Only as part of a publicized city-wide campaign to license dogs
owned by residents of the city and for a period not to exceed 30 days,
periodically the City Council may waive all or part of the neutered dog license
fee required in this chapter.
   (D)   Watchdog. After application upon a form to be provided by the City
Code Enforcement Officer, a permit may be issued to the license owner of a dog
to use that dog as a watchdog. The fee for such permit shall be in addition to
the individual dog license fee.
   (E)   Dangerous dogs. If a dog is classified as a potentially dangerous dog,
the owner shall obtain a separate license for the dog as well as a regular dog
license. The owner shall obtain the potentially dangerous dog license within
ten days of the time the dog is classified and annually thereafter. The City
Code Enforcement Officer shall issue or renew a potentially dangerous dog
license, provided:
      (1)   The owner presents to the Code Enforcement Officer sufficient
evidence of compliance with the restrictions imposed by § 92.073; and
      (2)   The owner pays a potentially dangerous dog license fee in the
amounts established by the City Council.
   (F)   Fines.
      (1)   If a dog owner has been fined or the dog owner’s dog has been
classified or registered in another state, county, or city because the dog
engages in the behaviors described in § 92.073, the owner shall notify the City
Code Enforcement Officer of such classification, registration, or fine at the
time the owner licenses the dog in the city.
      (2)   If the Code Enforcement Officer classifies the dog pursuant to §
92.073, the owner shall meet the requirements of §§ 92.075(A)(2) through (A)
(5), except that the initial potentially dangerous dog license fee will be as
established by the City Council for previously classified dogs.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.051 KENNEL LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a kennel, whether commercial or non-
commercial, without the appropriate kennel license. Kennel licenses shall be
valid for one year from the date of issuance.
   (B)   No kennel license shall be issued under this section to anyone in non-
conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   The following provisions shall govern revocation of licenses.
      (1)   (a)   Three or more violations of any section of this chapter
within a period of 12 calendar months shall result in a notice and order of
revocation of licenses granted under this section.
         (b)   Such notice and order shall include a general statement of the
reasons for the license revocation and the process to appeal the decision.
      (2)   (a)   Such revocation order may be appealed to the City Council
within ten days by the filing of a notice of appeal with the City Administrator
and paying the requisite appeal filing fee.
         (b)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal and filing fee, the matter
will be set for hearing at the next regularly scheduled City Council session.
      (3)   The decision of the City Council on appeal is final.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS; QUARANTINE
§ 92.065 REPORTING OF BITING ANIMALS.
   The owner of an animal susceptible to rabies which bites a human being shall
immediately notify the City Code Enforcement Officer or the County Health
Officer of such bite, the time and circumstances of such bite, and the name and
address of the person bitten, if known.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.066 BITING, RABID ANIMALS; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When the City Code Enforcement Officer, any city official, or the
Departments of Public Health and Human Services or Public Safety of the county
have grounds to suspect that an animal is infected with the disease of rabies,
there shall be delivered to the owner of the animal a written notice thereof.
The animal shall thereupon be quarantined at the owner’s expense as provided by
state law. The biting of any person by the animal shall constitute adequate
grounds for suspecting the animal to be so infected. The delivery of the notice
to a member of the owner’s family 15 years of age or older at the premises
where the animal is kept, or at the owner’s usual place of abode, shall be
delivery of notice to the owner.
   (B)   Any animal that has been bitten by another animal proved to be rabid
shall be destroyed.
   (C)   If an animal exhibits symptoms of rabies while it is under quarantine,
the Director of the Department of Health and Human services for the county may
order in writing that it be destroyed and its head be submitted as directed to
the State Public Health Laboratory.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.067 SICK, INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any sick or injured animal found by a peace officer or the City Code
Enforcement Officer off the premises of its owner shall be delivered to its
owner if it is feasible to do so. Any such animal for which the owner is either
unknown or cannot be reached after reasonable attempts to do so may be
impounded. The City Code Enforcement Officer shall determine whether the animal
is so severely injured or incurably crippled that the humane thing to do would
be to destroy the animal. If the Code Enforcement Officer reasonably believes
the animal should be destroyed, the animal may be destroyed immediately. If the
Code Enforcement Officer reasonably believes the animal should not be destroyed
and that treatment is necessary, the animal may be delivered by City Code
Enforcement Officer to a veterinarian for medical treatment. If the
veterinarian determines that treatment should be given such treatment may be
given provided, however, the animal may be destroyed if not claimed by its
owner within 72 hours after being delivered to the veterinarian.
   (B)   Any peace officer or the City Code Enforcement Officer may humanely
destroy any animal too severely injured to move and not on the property of its
owner when the owner is either unknown or cannot be reached after reasonable
attempts to do so.
   (C)   Arrangements for fees, selection of veterinarians, liability of
veterinarians, and the like shall be as determined by separate contracts
between the city and individual veterinarians.
   (D)   The owner of the animal shall be liable to the veterinarian and to the
city, or its duly appointed designee, for all expenses which are incurred for
the care of said animal.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.068 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish a procedure whereby dogs
that pose a reasonably significant threat of causing serious injury to humans,
domestic animals, or livestock or property are identified and subjected to
precautionary restrictions in order to prevent initial or additional injuries.
      (1)   Level 1 behavior is established if a dog at large is found to
menace, chase, display threatening or aggressive behavior, or otherwise
threaten or endanger the safety of any domestic animal or livestock. Level 1
behavior is a Class 4 violation.
      (2)   Level 2 behavior is established if a dog at large is found to
menace, chase, display threatening or aggressive behavior, or otherwise
threaten or endanger the safety of any person. Level 2 behavior is a Class 3
violation.
      (3)   Level 3 behavior is established if a dog, while at large, bites or
causes physical injury to any domestic animal or livestock. Level 3 behavior is
a Class 3 violation.
      (4)   Level 4 behavior is established if a dog bites any person. Level 4
behavior is a Class 2 violation.
      (5)   (a)   Level 5 behavior is established if:
            1.   A dog, whether or not confined, causes the serious injury or
death of any person;
            2.   A dog, while at large, kills any domestic animal;
            3.   A dog, while at large, kills any livestock;
            4.   A dog engages in or is found to have been trained to engage in
exhibitions of fighting; or
            5.   A dog that has been classified as a Level 4 potentially
dangerous dog repeats the behavior described in division (A)(4) above after the
owner receives notice of the Level 4 behavior classification.
         (b)   Level 5 behavior is a Class 1 violation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the City Code Enforcement Officer
shall have discretion to refrain from classifying a dog as potentially
dangerous even if the dog has engaged in the behaviors specified in division
(A) above if the City Code Enforcement Officer determines that the behavior was
a result of the victim abusing or tormenting the dog or other extenuating
circumstances.
   (C)   No dog shall be classified as potentially dangerous if the behavior in
question was directed against a trespasser on the property of a business which
owns a licensed watchdog, providing the owner has complied with §
92.004.
   (D)   No dog shall be classified as potentially dangerous if the behavior in
question was directed against a trespasser that has illegally entered any
residence.
   (E)   Upon application of the dog owner accompanied by the fee established
by the City Council, the restrictions for a dog classified under § 92.074(A)
shall be reviewed by the City Code Enforcement Officer after six months for
dogs classified as Level 1 or Level 2 and after one year for dogs classified as
Level 3 or higher. If the dog owner can show that the behavior that caused the
classification has been corrected to the satisfaction of the City Code
Enforcement Officer, then the Code Enforcement Officer may enter an order
modifying or deleting the classification.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.069 IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; APPEALS, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Code Enforcement Officer shall have authority to
determine whether any dog has engaged in behaviors specified in § 92.073. This
determination shall be based upon an investigation that includes observation of
the dog’s behavior by the City Code Enforcement Officer, city staff, or elected
officials, or other witnesses who personally observed the behavior and sign a
written statement attesting to the observed behavior and agree to provide
testimony regarding the dog’s behavior, if necessary.
      (2)   The determination may also be based on evidence that the dog’s
owner was fined or the dog was classified or registered in another state,
county, or city because the dog engaged in behaviors specified in § 92.073.
   (B)   The City Code Enforcement Officer shall give the dog’s owner written
notice by certified mail or personal service containing a description of the
dog’s specific behavior, classification as a potentially dangerous dog, and the
additional restrictions applicable to that dog by reason of its classification.
If the owner denies that the behavior in question occurred, the owner may
appeal the Code Enforcement Officer’s decision to the City Council by filing a
notice of appeal and paying the requisite appeal fees within ten days of the
date the notice was received by the owner by certified mail or the owner was
personally served.
   (C)   The City Council shall hear the appeal from the Code Enforcement
Officer’s decision to classify a dog as potentially dangerous. The owner and
any other persons having relevant evidence concerning the dog’s behavior, as
specified in § 92.073, shall be allowed to present testimony. The City
Council’s decision will be final.
   (D)   Once the owner has received notice of the dog’s classification as a
Level 1 to Level 4 potentially dangerous dog pursuant to division (B) above,
the owner shall comply with the restrictions specified in the notice within ten
days, unless the owner appeals it to the City Council. If the Code Enforcement
Officer’s decision is upheld on appeal, the dog’s owner shall be liable for the
cost of the dog’s impoundment and the costs incurred by the city for processing
and hearing the appeal.
   (E)   If the Code Enforcement Officer finds that a dog has engaged in Level
5 behavior, the dog shall be impounded pending completion of all appeals. If
the Code Enforcement Officer’s decision is upheld on appeal, the dog’s owner
shall be liable for the cost of the dog’s impoundment and the costs incurred by
the city for processing and hearing the appeal.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.070 REGULATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   In addition to the other requirements of all Sections of this chapter
and restrictions that the Code Enforcement Officer deems reasonable under the
circumstances, the owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall comply with the
following regulations.
      (1)   If the dog has engaged in Level 1 or Level 2 behavior, the owner
shall provide a physical device or structure that prevents the dog from
reaching any public right-of-way or adjoining property, and shall restrict the
dog by such a device or structure whenever the dog is outside the owner’s home
and not on a leash off the owner’s property.
      (2)   If the dog has engaged in Level 3 behavior, the owner shall provide
a secure enclosure and confine the dog within such enclosure whenever the dog
is not on a leash off the owner’s property or inside the home of the owner. The
owner shall also post City Code Enforcement Officer approved warning signs on
the property where the dog is kept.
      (3)   If the dog has engaged in Level 4 or Level 5 behavior, the owner
shall meet the requirements of division (A)(2) above and shall, additionally,
not permit the dog to be off the owner’s property unless the dog is muzzled and
restrained by an adequate leash and under the control of a capable person over
the age of 18.
      (4)   Any dog that has been found to have engaged in Level 4 or 5
behavior may be euthanized by order of the Code Enforcement Officer or by order
of the City Council, provided the dog’s behavior poses a significant risk of
additional injury or death and the owner fails to provide sufficient evidence
of compliance with the restrictions imposed by this section. In addition, the
Code Enforcement Officer or the City Council has the authority to suspend the
Level 5 dog owner’s right to be the owner of any dog in the city, including
dogs currently owned by that person.
      (5)   To ensure correct identification, the owner of a dog that has been
classified as potentially dangerous shall cause the dog to wear an identifying
collar and ID tag.
      (6)   In addition to obtaining a regular dog license, the owner shall
obtain a potentially dangerous dog license pursuant to § 92.055(B) and (E).
      (7)   The owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall notify the Code
Enforcement Officer of the transfer of ownership by sale, gift, or otherwise of
the potentially dangerous dog and the name and address of the person to whom
the potentially dangerous dog was transferred.
   (B)   No person shall own a dog in violation of this section or on the order
of the Code Enforcement Officer or City Council pursuant to division (A)(4)
above.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
§ 92.071 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a dangerous animal, or who has a right
of property in, or who harbors, has in their care, possession, custody, or
control a dangerous animal, shall allow a dangerous animal to be exposed to the
public.
   (B)   A dangerous animal which has been exposed to the public may be
impounded by any peace officer or the Code Enforcement Officer and disposed of
in accordance with the provisions of this code for the impoundment and
disposition of animals, except, before a dangerous animal is released, the Code
Enforcement Officer must enter findings that proper precautions will be taken
to ensure the public health and safety.
   (C)   A dangerous animal running at large which, because of its disposition
or diseased condition, is too hazardous to apprehend may be destroyed by a
peace officer, the Code Enforcement Officer, or by a person acting in defense
of that person’s own self or another person.
   (D)   Violation of this section is a Class 3 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.072 RIGHT TO KILL A DOG.
   (A)   Any dog which, while off its owner’s premises, kills, wounds, or
injures a human or domestic animal may be killed immediately by any person.
   (B)   Any dog which chases, kills, or injures livestock not belonging to the
owner, while off the premises owned or under the control of its owner, may be
killed immediately by any person.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shoots an animal shall immediately notify the
City Code Enforcement Officer of the shooting, giving a description of the
animal, the time and circumstances of the shooting and the name and address of
the animal’s owner, if known.
      (2)   This division (C) does not apply in the case of an animal being
shot by the animal’s owner.
   (D)   A violation of this section is a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
ANIMALS AS NUISANCES
§ 92.085 DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No dog owner shall permit a dog to be at large.
   (B)   A dog owner is deemed to be negligent per se for the actions of a dog
at large, or a dog undergoing field training, or a dog in a dog-off-leash area,
when the dog causes injury to a person or property.
   (C)   Committing the infraction of a dog at large is a Class 4 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.086 CONTINUOUS ANNOYANCE.
   (A)   No animal owner shall permit any animal to cause continuous annoyance.
   (B)   Committing the infraction of a continuous annoyance is a Class 3
violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.087 LIVESTOCK NOT TO RUN AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner or keeper of livestock shall permit or
allow the same to run or be at large or to be on or enter the premises of
another person.
   (B)   Violation of this section is a Class 4 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.088 DOG WASTE MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a dog owner to allow the dog, except for
seeing eye dogs, to deposit solid waste matter on any improved property other
than that of the dog owner. It shall be a defense to this section if the dog
owner immediately removes the solid waste.
   (B)   Violation of this section is a Class 4 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.089 DOGS IN SEASON.
   (A)   No person shall permit a dog in heat (estrus) to be accessible to male
dogs not in the person’s ownership, except for intentional breeding purposes.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a Class 3 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
OTHER PROHIBITIONS
§ 92.100 POSSESSION OF FIGHTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of possession of fighting animal(s) if
the person has in his or her possession, care, custody, or control an animal
which is trained to fight another animal, is being trained to fight another
animal, has fought another animal in an arranged fight, or is intended to fight
another animal.
   (B)   Animal pounds, shelters, and humane societies are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   The City Code Enforcement Officer shall immediately seize any animal
reasonably believed to be an animal either used or intended or reasonably
believed to be intended for use in animal fighting. Said animal shall be
detained pending adjudication of the violation.
   (D)   Procuring animals for fight training purposes, including smaller “bait
animals” such as cats, rabbits, or small dogs, is prohibited.
   (E)   Possession of a fighting or bait animal is a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.101 CAPTURING, KILLING DOGS, CATS.
   A person who, except as otherwise permitted by law, obtains, captures, or
otherwise acquires a dog or a cat intending to kill it, and who subsequently
does so, commits a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.102 POSSESSION OF A STOLEN ANIMAL.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of possession of a stolen animal if a
person has, in his or her care, custody, possession, or control an animal not
owned by that person and not placed by the owner/caretaker of that animal, in
the persons care, custody, or control.
   (B)   (1)   Exempt from this section are animal welfare organizations,
persons in the act of taking a stray animal to a welfare organization, taking
an animal for emergency veterinary treatment or alteration, caring for a stray
animal, or returning or attempting to return a lost animal to the rightful
owner.
      (2)   It is not required under this section that the animal be reported
as stolen to a police agency.
   (C)   Possession of a stolen animal is a Class 1 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.103 PARKING, TETHERING HORSES ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person who is the owner or keeper of a horse shall park it or
tether it on a public way or allow it on a public way or in a park except under
the direct control of a qualified person.
   (B)   Violation of this section is a Class 4 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.104 SELLING, TRADING, BARTERING, GIVING AWAY ANIMALS IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, trade, barter, or give or offer to give away any
animal to another person in a city park or property owned by the city.
Violation of this section is a Class 4 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.105 SALE OF BABY CHICKS, DUCKLINGS, GOSLINGS, RABBITS.
   (A)   No baby chick, duckling, gosling, or rabbit that has been dyed or
otherwise colored artificially may be sold or offered for sale, raffled,
offered, or given as a prize, premium, or advertising device or displayed in a
store, shop, carnival, or other public place.
   (B)   Baby chicks, ducklings, and goslings younger than four weeks of age
may not be sold or offered for sale, raffled, or offered or given as a prize,
premium, or advertising device in quantities of less than 12 birds to an
individual person.
   (C)   Stores, shops, vendors, and others offering baby chicks, ducklings, or
goslings for sale, raffle, or as a prize, premium, or advertising device or
displaying chicks, ducklings, or goslings to the public shall provide and
operate brooders or other heating devices that may be necessary to maintain the
chicks, ducklings, or goslings in good health and shall keep adequate food and
water available to the birds at all times.
   (D)   Violation of this section is a Class 3 violation.
(Ord. 241, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   The failure to comply with the city’s provisions for animal regulation,
unless provided otherwise, shall be classified for the purposes of establishing
civil penalties into one of the following categories of violation:
   (A)   Class 1 violation. For a Class 1 violation, the monetary penalty shall
be no less than $100, nor more than $500 for a first occurrence. For a second
Class 1 violation occurring within 12 months from the date of the first
occurrence, the monetary penalty shall be no less than $200, nor more than
$500. For a third Class 1 violation occurring within a 12-month period from the
date of the first occurrence, the monetary penalty shall be $500.
   (B)   Class 2 violation. For a Class 2 violation, the monetary penalty shall
be no less than $50, nor more than $250 for the first occurrence. If the
responsible person had a prior occurrence of a Class 1 or 2 violation within 12
months from the date of the first occurrence, the monetary penalty shall be no
less than $100, nor more than $250. If the responsible person had two prior
occurrences for a Class 1 or 2 violation within a 12-month period for the date
of the first occurrence, the monetary penalty shall be $250.
   (C)   Class 3 violation. For a Class 3 violation, the monetary penalty shall
be $25 for the first occurrence, $35 for the second occurrence, $45 for the
third occurrence, and $55 for each subsequent occurrence within any 12-month
period of time.
   (D)   Class 4 violation. For a Class 4 violation, the monetary penalty shall
be not less than $10, nor more than $150 for the first occurrence. If the
responsible person had a prior violation within 12 months from the date of the
first occurrence, the fine shall be not less than $40, nor more than $150. If
the responsible person had two prior occurrences of a Class 1, 2, or 3
violation within 12 months of the date of the first offense, the monetary
penalty shall be $150.
(Ord. 241, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Use of Trails
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Liability limited
USE OF TRAILS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC EASEMENT. A platted or dedicated easement for public access that is
accessible by a user on foot, horseback, bicycle, or other similar conveyance,
but does not include a platted or dedicated public access easement over private
streets.
   STRUCTURES. Improvements in a trail, including, but not limited to, stairs
and bridges, that are accessible by a user on foot, horseback, bicycle, or
other non-motorized vehicle or conveyance.
   TRAIL. A travel way for pedestrians and bicycles that is separate from
automobiles, and includes a multi-use path or multi-use trail, but does not
include a bike lane, shoulder bikeway, or shared roadway.
   UNIMPROVED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A platted or dedicated public right-of-way over
which a street, road, or highway has not been constructed to the standards and
specifications of the entity with jurisdiction over the public right-of-way and
for which the city has not expressly accepted responsibility for maintenance,
but does not include a platted private street.
(Ord. 267, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 93.02 LIABILITY LIMITED.
   (A)   A personal injury or property damage resulting from use of a trail
that is in a public easement
or an unimproved right-of-way, by a user on foot, on a horse, on a bicycle or
other non-motorized vehicle or conveyance does not give rise to a private claim
or right of action on negligence against:
      (1)   The city;
      (2)   The city officers, employees, or agents to the extent the officers,
employees, or agents are entitled to defense and indemnification under O.R.S.
30.285;
      (3)   The owner of land abutting the public easement or unimproved right-
of-way; or
      (4)   A non-profit corporation and its volunteers for the construction
and maintenance of the trail or the structures in a public easement or
unimproved right-of-way.
   (B)   The immunity granted by this section from a private claim or right of
action based on negligence does not grant immunity from liability:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) above, to a person that
receives compensation for providing assistance, services, or advice in relation
to conduct that leads to a personal injury or property damage;
      (2)   For personal injury or property damage resulting from gross
negligence or from reckless, wanton, or intentional misconduct; and
      (3)   For an activity for which a person is strictly liable without
regard to fault.
(Ord. 267, passed 2-21-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FRANCHISES
      
111.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
112.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION LICENSE
      
114.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: FRANCHISES
Section
   
110.01   Franchised activities enumerated; applicability of provisions
   
110.02   Franchise fees
   
110.03   Franchise application and approval
   
110.04   Franchise term
   
110.05   Franchise annual review
   
110.06   Franchise suspension, modification, and revocation
   
110.07   Duties of franchisee
   
110.08   Duties of public
   
110.09   Rates and payment for service
   
110.10   Subcontractors
   
110.11   Service interruption
   
110.12   Service termination
   
110.13   Prohibited acts of franchisee
   
110.14   Records; audits
   
110.15   Complaints by citizens
   
110.16   Appeals
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licensing of solid waste collection services, see
Chapter 113
§ 110.01 FRANCHISED ACTIVITIES ENUMERATED; APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Franchises required; applicability of provisions.
      (1)   The below-listed activities are listed as franchised activities
which may or may not be exclusive in nature. Any person who might engage in
such an activity shall apply to the city for a franchise, and shall not engage
in such activity until, and unless, such a franchise is granted.
      (2)   In the event the terms of this chapter should conflict with
franchises granted before the enactment of this chapter, the terms of the
former franchising ordinance shall supersede the terms of this chapter, but
this chapter shall govern extensions granted after the enactment of this
chapter.
   (B)   Franchised activities.
      (1)   Electric utility services;
      (2)   Telephone services;
      (3)   Garbage and refuse collection;
      (4)   Cable television; and
      (5)   Other such activity as the city may designate by ordinance from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 FRANCHISE FEES.
   The Council shall, by resolution, set application fees for persons applying
for a franchise or receiving a franchise by transfer, and shall set the
franchise fee. Notice of any franchise fee increase shall be given to the
franchise holder in a timely fashion. If the city should receive a number of
applications in quantity such that the application fees would greatly exceed
the city’s actual costs of processing, and granting such activities, the city
may, at its option, and by resolution, return a portion of each application
fee, and such amount returned shall be equal in sums to each applicant. In no
case shall the fee charged and retained exceed the actual costs to the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.03 FRANCHISE APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Applications. Applications for a franchise or the transfer of a
franchise shall be on forms provided by the City Recorder. In addition to
information required on the forms, the Recorder may require the filing of
additional information as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. If requested, the applicant must show to the
satisfaction of the Council that the applicant:
      (1)   Has available collection vehicles, equipment, facilities, and
personnel sufficient to meet the standards of equipment and services
established by the city. The applicant must detail in his or her proposal any
activity the applicant proposes to subcontract;
      (2)   Has sufficient experience in providing existing or comparable
service to ensure compliance with this chapter and any regulations thereunder
together with all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations. If the
applicant does not have sufficient experience, the Council may require the
applicant to submit a corporate surety bond in an amount to be established by
resolution, guaranteeing full and faithful performance by the applicant of the
duties and obligations of the franchisee under the provisions of the franchise,
together with applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and
regulations;
      (3)   Has in force public liability insurance in an amount of not less
than $500,000 for injury to a single person, or $500,000 for injury to a group
of persons, and property damage insurance in an amount of not less than
$500,000, which shall be evidenced by a certificate of insurance attached to
said application. The certificate shall name the city as an additional insured.
The Council may, by resolution and order, increase the minimum amount of
required insurance to meet the cost of inflation and risks;
      (4)   Has, when requesting transfer of a franchise, submitted as part of
the application a letter from the current franchisee requesting such transfer;
      (5)   Has attached a summary record of “adequate public service,” if any;
      (6)   Has demonstrated financial ability to the city to perform the
obligations of the franchise, or the city may require a performance bond; and
      (7)   Has submitted any other information which the applicant believes is
relevant to determining the applicant’s qualifications for the franchise.
   (C)   Review. Applications shall be reviewed by a committee appointed by the
Mayor. The committee shall make such investigation as deemed appropriate or
directed by the Council. The committee shall give written notice of any
application to an existing franchise.
   (D)   Issuance.
      (1)   Upon the basis of the application, evidence submitted, and results
of said investigation, the city shall make a finding on the qualifications of
the applicant and shall determine whether additional or different services or
equipment should be provided.
      (2)   The Council may conduct a public hearing to consider the
application within 30 days of the receipt of the committee’s recommendation.
The Council may consider any previous public hearing on the qualification of
the applicant and service provided. Notice of the hearing shall be served on
all applicants and any affected existing franchise.
      (3)   The Council’s decision on the application shall be supported by
written findings. The determination of the Council, by resolution, shall be
final.
      (4)   A written franchise agreement shall be signed by the city and the
franchisee. The franchisee’s application shall be a part of the franchise
agreement.   
   (E)   Interim applications. Unless an existing franchise is suspended,
modified, or revoked pursuant to this chapter or expires at the end of the
term, no interim applications will be accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.04 FRANCHISE TERM.
   The rights, privileges, and franchises granted pursuant to this chapter
shall begin as specified in the ordinance. The Council may terminate the
renewals with or without cause. The Council may later extend the terms or
reinstate the continuing renewal provision upon mutual agreement with the
franchisee. Nothing in this chapter restricts the right of the Council from
suspending, modifying, or revoking the franchise for violation of federal,
state, or municipal statutes and ordinances or the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.05 FRANCHISE ANNUAL REVIEW.
   All franchises shall contain provisions for annual review and public comment
at such review.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.06 FRANCHISE SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION, AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Failure to provide necessary service or otherwise comply with the
provisions of the enabling ordinance, after written notice and a reasonable
opportunity to comply, shall be grounds for modification, suspension, or
revocation of the franchise.
      (1)   After written notice from the City Recorder that such grounds
exist, the franchisee shall have at least 20 days from the date of mailing of
the notice in which to comply or request a public hearing before the Council.
      (2)   At a public hearing, the franchisee and other interested persons
shall have an opportunity to present oral, written, or documentary evidence and
argument to the Council.
      (3)   If the franchisee fails to comply within the time specified or if a
Council hearing is held with an order of the Council entered upon the basis of
findings at the public hearing, the Council may suspend, modify, or revoke the
franchise or make such action contingent upon continued non-compliance.
   (B)   In the event the Council finds an immediate and serious danger to the
public through creation of a health hazard, it may take action within a time
specified in the notice to the franchisee and without a public hearing prior to
the taking of such action.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (B) above, this division (C) applies to
conditions within the control of the franchisee. Where default or failure to
comply occurs by reason of lack of specialized equipment, availability of
equipment or personnel, or similar reasons not under the control of the
franchisee, the franchisee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to comply.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.07 DUTIES OF FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   The city shall set forth in its request for proposals (RFP) or
enabling ordinance the obligations of the applicant, which the franchisee must
fulfill. The ordinance granting the franchise shall incorporate obligations set
forth in the RFP or enabling ordinance, and said obligations shall be made a
part of the ordinance granting the franchise and incorporated therein.
   (B)   The franchisee shall fulfill all obligations contained therein unless
specifically waived by the city. No such obligation shall be waived without
notice to the public and a public hearing being held, and only with the
approval of an absolute majority of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DUTIES OF PUBLIC.
   Each enabling ordinance granting a franchise to a franchisee shall set forth
the obligations of the public, if any, to provide assistance and cooperation to
the franchisee and thereby assist the franchisee in providing services.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.09 RATES AND PAYMENT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Rates.
      (1)   Rates for service shall be made by resolution and order of the
Council.
      (2)   Changes in rates shall be made by resolution and order of the
Council. In determining rates, the Council shall give due consideration to
current and projected revenue and expenses; actual and overhead expenses; the
cost of acquiring and replacing equipment; the services of the owner, family,
and management; the cost of providing for future, added, or different service;
recycling, reuse, or other resource recovery services; a reasonable return to
the franchisee for doing business based on a percentage of the gross receipts;
research and development; systems to avoid or recover the cost of bad debts;
interest on late payments; and such other factors as the Council deems
relevant. The Council may consider rates charged by other persons performing
the same or similar services in the same or similar areas under the same or
similar conditions.
      (3)   Rate adjustments may be made not more than once per calendar year
when provided as below or otherwise herein. In addition to the possible annual
adjustment, a supplemental rate adjustment may be requested when the cost of
service is increased or decreased by governmental or environmental regulations
and compliance therewith; or where there is substantial increase or decrease in
a single expense that was not anticipated at the time of the last rate
adjustment; or when the total cost of providing services exceeds projected
costs by 5% or more.
      (4)   Written notice to rate payers of proposed rate changes is the
responsibility of the franchisee and shall be given as directed by the city.
      (5)   On all rate changes, the franchisee shall provide 60 days’ written
notice to the city of the proposed rate changes together with an accompanying
justification of the proposed rate changes.
      (6)   Nonscheduled services may be provided at the reasonable cost of
providing the service, giving due consideration to the guidelines established
in this chapter. In the event of a request for a rate increase, the city shall,
by resolution, establish a reasonable fee to recover expenses incurred.
      (7)   In the event it should come to the attention of the Council that
the franchisee is charging a substantially lower fee for similar services, and
under similar circumstances, outside the municipal boundaries, the City Council
may order the franchisee to appear before the City Council after 14-days’
written notice and show cause, if any, why the rate structure should not be
altered to reflect the lower fee being charged elsewhere. In the event of such
proceeding, the Council shall hold public hearing and allow reasonable
opportunity for the franchisee to appear and present evidence and argument. The
public shall be afforded the same right. The Council shall reach findings of
fact and conclusions of law after such proceeding. The Council, at its option,
may designate another body or officer constituted and authorized by the city to
conduct the hearing.
   (B)   Payment for services. Any person who receives service from the
franchisee shall be responsible for paying for that service.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.10 SUBCONTRACTORS.
   (A)   If the franchisee should subcontract with others to provide a portion
of the franchised service, the franchisee will notify the city. Such a
subcontract shall not relieve the franchisee of total responsibility for
providing and maintaining service and from compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The city may, after notice to the franchisee, disapprove of any
subcontractor and thereafter the franchisee shall cease utilizing said
subcontractor until a hearing and a finding by the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 SERVICE INTERRUPTION.
   The franchisee agrees, as a condition of holding a franchise, that whenever
the Council determines that the failure of service or threatened failure of
service would result in an interruption of service to the public, the Council
may, after a minimum of 24-hours’ written notice to the franchisee and a public
hearing if requested by the franchisee, authorize city personnel or other
persons to temporarily provide the service or to use and operate the land,
facilities, or equipment of the franchisee. The Council may authorize whatever
expenses are necessary to operate such land, facilities, or equipment. The
Council shall return any seized property and the business upon abatement of the
actual or threatened interruption of service. The Council may assess to the
franchisee the costs incurred in such abatement, and the franchisee shall
reimburse the city for those costs, including attorney fees, within 30 days of
demand, unless otherwise agreed.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.12 SERVICE TERMINATION.
   The franchisee shall not terminate service to all or a portion of his or her
customers unless one or more of the following occurs:
   (A)   The street or road access is blocked and there is no alternate route,
and provided that the city shall not have caused such blocking of access;
   (B)   Excessive weather conditions render providing service unduly hazardous
to persons providing service, as determined by the franchisee, or such
termination is caused by accidents or casualties caused by an act of God, a
public enemy, or vandalism;
   (C)   Equipment failure interferes with providing all or a part of the
required service. The franchisee shall immediately endeavor to find substitute
equipment;
   (D)   A customer has not complied with his or her obligations as set forth
in the enabling ordinance and accompanying resolutions;
   (E)   Ninety days’ written notice of intent to terminate all or a
substantial part of service is given to the Council and written approval is
obtained from the Council; and
   (F)   The franchisee is ordered to suspend, reduce, or terminate all or a
portion of its services by a legislative or judicial body having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 PROHIBITED ACTS OF FRANCHISEE.
   The franchisee shall not:
   (A)   Give any rate preference to any person or locality. This division (A)
shall not prohibit uniform classes of rates based upon the length of haul, the
type or quantity of service rendered, and the location of customers so long as
such rates are reasonably based upon the cost of the particular service and are
approved by the Council, nor shall it prevent any person or the franchisee from
volunteering service for charitable, community, civic, or benevolent purposes;
   (B)   Transfer the franchise or any portion thereof to other persons without
prior written approval of the Council, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld;
   (C)   Engage in a practice which, after notice to the public and public
hearing, the city should find to be detrimental to the public welfare; and/or
   (D)   Fail to allow any agent designated by the city to inspect the
facilities, equipment, personnel, books, and records of the franchisee. The
city must give to the franchisee 30 days’ notice in writing. All books and
records will be produced at City Hall, unless otherwise agreed. Should the
franchisee request inspection at any other location, the franchisee agrees to
pay the city’s expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 RECORDS; AUDITS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall keep a complete and accurate set of books which
shall reflect capital investments, depreciation, the gross receipts from
service, expenses, and net profits under the franchise rendered inside the
city, which books shall be balanced at least annually.
   (B)   The books and records shall be kept using accepted accounting
practices as modified to provide the information required for rate
determination.
   (C)   The frequency, detail, and disposition of records and the costs of
such recordkeeping shall be reviewed by the city or its designee, who shall
make a final determination if the records are sufficient and complete.
(Prior Code, § 110.14) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.15 COMPLAINTS BY CITIZENS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall respond to any complaint within two working days.
   (B)   If the citizen is not satisfied with the franchisee’s response, the
citizen may request a hearing before the City Council. The City Council or its
designee shall notify both parties of a time at which an administrative hearing
shall be held on the matter. At such hearing, both parties and their agents may
represent evidence, arguments, and such as deemed appropriate by the city or
its hearing body or officer. The City Council will then direct the franchisee
as to the remedial steps required, if any.
(Prior Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any action or determination by the franchisee under or pursuant to
this chapter may be appealed to the Mayor.
   (B)   Any action or determination of the Mayor under this chapter may be
appealed to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 110.16) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter by any franchisee shall constitute a nuisance. The
city may abate the nuisance pursuant to the terms of Chapter 91, impose fines
pursuant to Chapter 91, collect the surcharge provided therein, and collect
reasonable attorney fees provided therein.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 73, passed 4-8-1982)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and scope
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Business license required
   
111.04   Application
   
111.05   Issuance
   
111.06   General requirements
   
111.07   License renewals
   
111.08   Contents
   
111.09   Posting
   
111.10   Fee; term
   
111.11   Denial, revocation, suspension of license
   
111.12   License suspension
   
111.13   Appeal
   
111.14   Businesses affected
   
111.15   Exemptions
   
111.16   Notice of violation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Revenue. This chapter is enacted, except as hereinafter otherwise
specified, to provide revenue for municipal purposes and to provide revenue to
pay for the expenses required to administer the city business license program.
   (B)   Health, safety, and welfare of city citizens. This chapter is further
enacted to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city through regulation of businesses, occupations, and trade.
   (C)   Separation. The license fees levied by this chapter shall be
independent and separate from any license or permit fees now or hereafter
acquired of any person to engage in any business by any ordinance of the city
regulating any business herein required to be licensed. All such businesses
shall remain subject to the regulatory provisions of any such ordinances or
ordinance now or hereafter in effect, and the persons engaged therein liable
for the payment of any license fees therein provided.
   (D)   Unlawful business. The levy, or collection of a license fee, upon any
business shall not be construed to be a license or permit by the city to the
person engaged therein in the event such business shall be unlawful, illegal,
or prohibited by the laws of the state or the United States, or ordinances of
the city.
   (E)   Contractual obligation. Nothing herein contained shall be taken or
construed as vesting any right in any license as a contract obligation on the
part of the city.
   (F)   Application. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to
any person while transacting and carrying on any business within the city which
is exempt from taxation or regulation by the city by virtue of the
Constitutions or Statutes of the United States or the state.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any activity carried on with the intent that:
      (1)   A profit be realized therefrom; and
      (2)   The profit, if any, inures to the benefit of the owner or owners of
the activity.
   CITY DESIGNEE. A person duly authorized by the City Recorder to conduct the
processing of business license applications.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person who purchases or owns property and constructs or, for
compensation, arranges for the construction of one or more residential
structures or commercial structures with the intent of selling the structures,
obtaining city permits for citizens, or any person, for compensation or with
the intent to sell, arranges or undertakes, or offers to undertake or submits a
bid for work under a Construction Contractors Board (CCB) license, a state
trade license from the Building Codes Division (BCD), or a landscape
construction license from the State Landscape Contractors Board.
   DOING OR TRANSACTING BUSINESS. Any act or series of acts performed in the
course or pursuit of a business activity.
   EMPLOYEE. A person having no ownership interest in the business other than
the ownership of shares in a corporate owner of the business and who is
regularly employed by, and under the supervision and control of, the owner or
owners of the business or their representative in the course of the business
activities; any person who is not subject to state and federal employment and
withholding taxes by the business shall not be deemed an EMPLOYEE under this
chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business carried out for gain by a resident and
conducted as an incidental and accessory use of the residential parcel.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.03 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, for themselves or as agent or employee of another, shall do
business within the city unless such business has been duly licensed within
this chapter and the license is valid at the time of the transaction of
business, unless jurisdiction of said licensing is specifically reserved by
federal or state government.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a business license shall be submitted on forms to be
provided by the city designee. Every application shall be signed by the owner
or his, her, or their duly authorized agent and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name of person or persons owning the business;
      (2)   Assumed business name, if any;
      (3)   Address of the business premises and business mailing address,
contact name, telephone and fax numbers, and email, if available;
      (4)   Nature of the business;
      (5)   Where the business includes activities classifiable in two or more
categories, the primary or predominate activity;
      (6)   Evidence of satisfaction of state registration, bonding, or
insurance if required, including registration number and expiration date;
      (7)   The date of the application; and
      (8)   Signature of the applicant.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly sign or submit a business license
application containing false information.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a business license application, receipt of the
required fee, and approval, a business license will be issued to the applicant.
License applications will either be approved or denied within 15 business days
of receipt. Licenses so issued shall be valid until the last day of the prior
month in the next year. There shall be no proration of license fees.
   (B)   In the event an application is denied, the applicant shall have the
right to appeal said denial to the City Council in accordance with the appeal
provisions under §
111.13.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.06 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to any other requirements of this chapter, each licensee shall:
   (A)   Conform to all federal, state, and county laws and the requirements of
the city code, regulations, and ordinances, the provisions of this chapter, and
any rules adopted thereunder;
   (B)   Notify the city within ten days of any change in the information
contained in the application, related materials, or license, including the
cessation of business activities; and
   (C)   If a business ownership or location is transferred, the requirements
of this section shall prevail. A fee of $25 shall be charged for a transfer.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.07 LICENSE RENEWALS.
   The city designee shall annually send a license renewal notice to each
business for which a license has been issued informing said business of the
expiration date of its current license and requiring that business to renew its
license on or before the last day of the month prior to initial issuance in
order to continue operations in the city.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.08 CONTENTS.
   Licenses shall be issued to the applicant in the name of the business to be
licensed and shall designate the nature of the business, the address of the
business premises, the date of issuance, and the date of expiration.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.09 POSTING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, at all times after the
issuance of the license, the licensee shall cause it to be posted in a
conspicuous place upon the business premises, available for inspection by the
public and by employees and prospective employees of the business.
   (B)   Where the licensee has no office, business premises, or other
established place of business within the city, a copy of the license shall be
in the possession of the representative of the business while doing business
within the city.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.10 FEE; TERM.
   (A)   An initial application for a license and an application for a renewal
of a license shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of $125 per year per
business. No license will be issued or renewed until all fees are fully paid.
   (B)   No person having paid the required fee, and having made application
for a business license, shall be entitled to any refund.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall assess a late fee of $25 on any business
license renewal that is not paid within 15 days of the due date of the renewal
notice, unless the city is notified in writing that the business has ceased to
conduct business in the city, as provided in §
111.06. If, after 30 days, such notice has not been received and the license is
not renewed, it is subject to §
111.11.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010; Res. 2025, No. 6, passed 6-18-2025)
§ 111.11 DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall deny, suspend, or revoke a business license
upon finding that:
      (1)   The licensee failed to pay the required license issuance or renewal
fee;
      (2)   The licensee failed to meet the requirements of, or is doing
business in violation of, federal, state, and county laws and the requirements
of the city code, regulations, and ordinances, the provisions of this chapter,
and any rules adopted thereunder; and
      (3)   The licensed activity would endanger property or the public health
and safety.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall provide written notice to the applicant or
licensee of a denial, suspension, or revocation. The notice shall state the
reason for the action taken and shall inform the applicant of the right to
appeal under §
111.13.
   (C)   A person whose application for a business license has been denied or
whose license has been revoked may reapply for a license after 90 days from the
date of denial or revocation but the application fee will be double the usual
fee.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.12 LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Upon determining that a licensed activity by a licensed business
presents an immediate danger to person(s) or property, the city shall suspend
the license for the activity.
   (B)   The suspension takes effect immediately upon notice of the suspension
being received by the licensee, or being delivered to the licensee’s business
address as stated on the licensee’s application for the license being
suspended. Such notice shall state the reason for the suspension and inform the
licensee of the provisions of appeal under §
111.13.
   (C)   The city shall continue a suspension as long as the reason for the
suspension exists or until a determination on appeal regarding the suspension
is made under §
111.13.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.13 APPEAL.
   In the event that an applicant, owner, or other responsible party for a
license under this chapter is denied such license, or in the event a license is
suspended or revoked, the applicant or license holder shall have the right of
appeal. The written notice of appeal to the City Council shall be filed with
the City Recorder within 15 days after the denial of a license or a license
suspension or revocation. The written appeal shall be referred to the City
Council as part of its agenda at the next regular meeting. The decision of the
Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.14 BUSINESSES AFFECTED.
   (A)   Contractors, those performing septic inspections and pumping, those
involved in landscaping and lawn care, and those involved in pruning and
removing trees. Rules and ordinances regarding operations in the city that
might be impacted by such businesses will be provided by the city staff to
these businesses at the time of applying for a business license in the city.
   (B)   Other businesses may be added at a later date by resolution.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   The terms and provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following
businesses or activities:
   (A)   Any person transacting and carrying on business within the city which
is exempt from taxation or regulation by virtue of the Constitutions and laws
of the United States or the state;
   (B)   Any business paying a city franchise fee;
   (C)   Any business or individual making deliveries for resale;
   (D) Activities conducted by, or for the exclusive benefit of, organizations
that are certified as tax exempt entities pursuant to Chapter 26, § 501(c), of
the United States Tax Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c);
   (E)   The providing of childcare in private homes for fewer than five
children not related by blood, legal adoption, or marriage;
   (F)   The conduct of a temporary and occasional garage or yard sale as
defined in this chapter;
   (G)   The rental for a period of one month or more of two or fewer units of
residential real estate within the city;
   (H)   The conduct of a home occupation, as defined in §
111.02, at the owner’s residential parcel and not involved in providing
services other than at the residence where the applicant is a sole proprietor
or a family group consisting of no more than two family members, has no
employees or contract employees or subcontractors, has no customer traffic to
their home, and has no signs;
   (I)   No business license shall be required for the operation of a
“residential home” or a “residential facility,” as those terms are defined in
O.R.S. 197.660;
   (J)   (1)   Special events such as fishing tournaments, trade shows,
sidewalk sales, fairs, parades, art shows, hobby shows, and educational or
cultural events at which several businesses shall sell goods from temporary
booths or stalls.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (J) is to facilitate such events which
are cultural or educational or which help to promote business or tourism in the
community.
   (K)   Homeowners who obtain permits for work they are doing themselves on
their own property.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.16 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The City Recorder, upon notification that a person is conducting business
within the city without being duly licensed as provided in this chapter, shall
notify such person, in writing, sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested, that a business license is required and shall provide said person
with a copy of this chapter.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   If a person shall not apply for a business license within 15 days of receipt
of said notification, as stated in §
111.16, or shall continue to conduct business within the city, that person
shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and shall be fined $500 in
addition to an amount not to exceed $100 per day and a total not to exceed
$10,000. Every day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. If the
person applies for a business license after the 15-day grace period, the fee is
double the current fee.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-8-2010)
CHAPTER 112: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Ban declared
   
112.03   Exception
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. The plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae, any part of the plant
Cannabis family Cannabaceae, and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family
Cannabaceae.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSING SITE. An entity registered with the State Health
Authority to process
marijuana.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. An entity licensed by the State Liquor Control
Commission to process
marijuana.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCER. An entity licensed by the State Liquor Control
Commission to manufacture, plant, cultivate, grow, or harvest marijuana.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. An entity licensed by the State Liquor Control
Commission to sell marijuana items to a consumer in this state.
   MARIJUANA WHOLESALER. An entity licensed by the State Liquor Control
Commission to purchase items in this state for resale to a person other than a
consumer.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. An entity registered with the State Health
Authority to transfer marijuana.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-13-2017)
§ 112.02 BAN DECLARED.
   As described in section O.R.S. 475.950, the city hereby prohibits the
establishment and operation of the following within the city limits subject to
the jurisdiction of the city:
   (A)   Marijuana processing sites licensed under O.R.S. 475C.815;
   (B)   Medical marijuana dispensaries;
   (C)   Marijuana producers licensed under O.R.S. 475C.833;
   (D)   Marijuana processors;
   (E)   Marijuana wholesalers;
   (F)   Marijuana retailers; and
   (G)   Any combination of the entities described in this section.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-13-2017)
§ 112.03 EXCEPTION.
   The prohibition set out in this chapter does not apply to a marijuana
processing site or medical marijuana dispensary that meets the conditions set
out in O.R.S. 475C.950(6) and (7). Further, the prohibitions set out in this
chapter does not apply to any marijuana-related entity described in §
112.02 that has, at the time of the adoption of this chapter, obtained a land
use compatibility statement pursuant to O.R.S. 475C.053.
(Ord. 245, passed 9-13-2017)
CHAPTER 113: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION LICENSE
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required; exemptions
   
113.03   License application, requirements
   
113.04   Insurance
   
113.05   License issuance
   
113.06   License term; fees; license transferability
   
113.07   License suspension, revocation
   
113.08   Appeal of license decision
   
113.09   Inspections
   
113.10   Service requirements
   
113.11   Rates, payment
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPENSATION. Money or other valuables given in return for work done,
including any return from salvage such as recycling or resource recovery, in
addition to payment made for the removal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION BUSINESS.
      (1)   Any person or persons in the business of collecting garbage and
rubbish from dwellings, businesses, or other establishments.
      (2)   The primary service provided is solid waste collection according to
a regular schedule at set rates for diverse customers, and may include contract
waste removal, salvage, and recyclable materials collection.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage or continue to engage in the collection,
conveyance, haulage, or disposal of solid waste, including the collection or
purchase of recyclables for compensation within the city limits without first
obtaining a solid waste collection license from the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the following:
      (1)   A person conducting an activity determined by the City Council to
be a civic, community, benevolent, or charitable non-profit program;
      (2)   A person transporting solid waste through the city that is neither
collected nor disposed of within the city; and
      (3)   The business of septic tank pumping.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION, REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications for licenses issued hereunder shall be made on forms supplied
by the city and shall contain all information requested by the city. An
application shall not be accepted or processed unless it is complete. An
application for a solid waste collection license by a person wishing to perform
a solid waste collection service within the city shall include, but is not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Names of individuals, the business name, associated business names,
street address, mailing address, telephone, mobile, and fax numbers, and email
address, if any, of the applicant;
   (B)   Description of the service for which the applicant is seeking a
license;
   (C)   Evidence that the applicant has or can obtain the equipment and
personnel required to provide the service;
   (D)   Evidence of prior experience and knowledge that the applicant has the
ability to provide service of the quality and quantity required by this
chapter;
   (E)   A list of all vehicles by vehicle identification number (VIN) and
equipment owned, leased, operated, or controlled by the applicant used to
conduct the business for which the application is made;
   (F)   A copy of all vehicle registration documents for each vehicle required
to be registered with the State Department of Motor Vehicles and proof of
insurance for each;
   (G)   Proof of liability insurance, including the liability insurance
company name, contact name, address, and telephone number;
   (H)   Proof of workers’ compensation insurance;
   (I)   Proof of all permissions and licensing, including, but not limited to,
the Department of Environmental Quality hazardous waste hauling, waste tire
carrier, transfer site utilization, and business license registration with the
state; and
   (J)   An affirmed statement that the applicant has no record of violations
of law or ordinances that indicate an inability to satisfactorily perform the
service being licensed.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.04 INSURANCE.
   Each applicant for a solid waste collection license shall submit a
certificate of public liability insurance with a 30-day notice of cancellation
clause acceptable to the City Attorney, which shall cover the applicant’s
business operation, including each vehicle operated by the applicant. The
insurance coverage shall include not less than $1,000,000 for one person, nor
less than $1,000,000 for bodily injury due to each occurrence, and not less
than $1,000,000 for damage to property due to each occurrence. The insurance
shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against liability or damage which
may arise or occur from an injury to person or property as a result of the
license holder’s operation of the solid waste business.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.05 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the information required with submission of an
application for a license by a person seeking to provide solid waste collection
service and after conducting such investigation as is considered appropriate,
the City Recorder shall determine whether the applicant is qualified and
whether there is a need that warrants issuance of a license, and if so, shall
issue the license.
   (B)   Within 30 business days of filing the application for license or
license renewal, the applicant shall be notified by the City Recorder, in
writing or by electronic transmission, whether or not the application is
approved.
   (C)   If, on the basis of the application review, the City Recorder
determines the applicant does not qualify for issuance of a license to provide
a service, the application shall be denied and the reasons for denial shall be
provided to the applicant.
   (D)   A licensee shall notify the city within 30 business days of any change
of information supplied in its application for a license. Failure to provide
any information required in connection with any license application or renewal,
or failure to inform the city of any change in information previously supplied
in connection with any application or renewal, shall be grounds and sufficient
cause to either deny any pending application or to revoke or suspend any active
license of a solid waste collection business.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.06 LICENSE TERM; FEES; LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   A license shall be valid from the date of issuance to the end of
the next following August. An initial application fee for a license and an
application for a renewal of a license shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee of $2,500. Application for a license renewal shall be made
prior to the license expiration date. If a renewal of a license is submitted
after the date expiration of the license, a late fee of $50 will be assessed.
      (2)   A renewal application that is submitted after the end of September
will be deemed a new application and shall be accompanied by another initial
application fee. A license is issued to the applicant and is not transferable.
If the ownership of a business is transferred, the new owners must obtain a new
license.
   (B)   The annual fee for a solid waste business license may be paid semi-
annually (not less than one-half the annual fee each payment), with the same
late penalties applying to each portion. The first payment shall be due
September 1 and the balance due March 1 of the following year.
   (C)   The failure to provide payment in full, as defined herein, shall be
grounds and sufficient cause to revoke summarily the solid waste collection
license.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.07 LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   Upon determination that a licensed solid waste collection service is being
conducted in violation of this chapter, or another city ordinance or a state or
federal law, the City Recorder shall notify the license holder of intent to
revoke or suspend the license. Notice shall be by personal service or by
registered mail deposited at a post office within 15 calendar days prior to the
effective date of the revocation or suspension. The notice shall state the
reason for revocation or suspension and inform the license holder of a right to
appeal. The City Council may decide to suspend a license without notice because
of immediate threats to public health and safety. A hearing upon the suspension
shall be held at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.08 APPEAL OF LICENSE DECISION.
   An applicant whose application has been denied or a licensee who has
received notice that his or her license is revoked or suspended shall have ten
calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of denial, revocation, or
suspension within which to file an appeal to the City Council. An appeal shall
be made by delivery of a notice of appeal stating the reason for the appeal to
the City Recorder, who shall notify the appellant of the time and place at
which the City Council shall hear the appeal and make its final determination.
The decision on a revocation or suspension that has been appealed shall remain
in effect until reversed, modified, or upheld at the appeal hearing. The
decision on appeal of the City Council shall be a final determination and shall
become effective immediately.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.09 INSPECTIONS.
   The vehicles and other equipment and property used to conduct a solid waste
collection business shall be available for inspection at reasonable times to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Consent to such
inspection is a condition to the granting of a solid waste collection license.
The City Council may appoint a person to make inspection and report back to the
City Council the results of such inspections.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.10 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Response to requests for service; uniform charges.
      (1)   A person licensed to provide a solid waste collection service
within the city shall respond to a request for service within a reasonable time
and shall charge uniformly according to the rate placed on file with the City
Recorder. A person requesting regularly scheduled service shall receive the
service the first regularly scheduled trip after receipt of the request, unless
a later beginning is requested.
      (2)   A person requesting special refuse hauling service shall receive
service at the time and place agreed upon between the person requesting the
service and the solid waste collection services provided, but in any event,
will exclude non-business days and holidays. The person requesting the special
refuse hauling services will be responsible for the payment of all fees and
costs associated with said special refuse hauling service.
   (B)   Requirements for a license garbage and rubbish collection service.
      (1)   In addition to other requirements, a collector of garbage within
the city shall:
         (a)   Empty residential containers and other containers with garbage
at least once every seven days or less frequently if agreed upon by customers;
         (b)   Collect no residential solid waste before 6:00 a.m. or after 8:
00 p.m. All trash and recyclable materials placed for collection shall be
considered the property and the responsibility of the customer until the time
of collection when it shall become the property and responsibility of the
service provider;
         (c)   Provide for the collection of recyclables separated from all
other forms of solid waste;
         (d)   For those residents who have qualified disabilities under the
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., carry out
service shall be available at the regular service fee. Disability service shall
be provided upon completion of a written certification from a licensed
physician that the resident’s impairment qualifies as a disability and prevents
him or her from utilizing curbside service and that no other person residing in
the household is capable of moving the solid waste carts to the collection
site;
         (e)   Use a compactor-type truck with a receiving hopper and
compaction device that shall move all waste from the hopper to a fully-enclosed
chamber or use a pickup truck in conjunction with
a compactor truck;
         (f)   Have pickup trucks and other vehicles equipped with covers to
prevent the loads of the vehicles from blowing or spilling from the vehicles.
All waste must be secured to the vehicle or container and enclosed or covered
with secured tarpaulins to prevent leakage, spillage, dusting, or litter. Such
enclosures and tarpaulins must remain in place while in the city. In the event
a vehicle or container leaks, spills, dusts, or litters on any road within the
limits of the city, the person hauling the waste shall be responsible for all
clean up and for paying any costs incurred or damages sustained by the city in
connection with performing or monitoring such clean up;
         (g)   Owners and operators of licensed vehicles and containers shall
be responsible to ensure that their vehicles are watertight, readily emptied,
cleaned with sufficient frequency to prevent insect breeding or odors or other
nuisances, and shall be maintained in good repair and a safe condition
including, but not limited to, being free from fluid leaks so as to avoid
materials infiltrating into area lakes, streams, and waterways;
         (h)   Operate said pickup trucks and other vehicles in a manner that
does not cause significant damage to roadways and is not beyond the design
capabilities of the vehicle so as to cause littering or spillage of the wastes
collected; and
         (i)   Take reasonable care to protect the property of customers being
served. Any damage or spillage of materials occurring as a result of the
collector’s actions shall be the collector’s responsibility.
      (2)   If a citizen is refused service by all licensees, the City Council
may arbitrate and assign such customers on a rotating basis between all
licensees.
      (3)   Collection of special handling wastes shall be segregated from
other categories of waste from the point of generation and must meet all
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.11 RATES, PAYMENT.
   (A)   Rates. Charges for solid waste collection services shall conform to
the following criterion.
      (1)   Rates charged by a licensee shall be uniform for the same service
or may be uniform within zones taking into account haul distance, concentration
of dwelling units, and other factors.
      (2)   Each license holder shall file with the City Recorder a copy of his
or her current rate schedule and shall notify the City Recorder of any changes
in the rate schedule at least five days prior to the new rate taking effect.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, the City
Council may, after public hearing, establish a uniform system of rates for the
various types of services furnished by the licensees. If such a system of
uniform rates is adopted by the City Council, no license holder may charge more
than the rate specific under such rate schedule. The City Council does reserve
the right to establish reasonable collection fee charges upon a finding of “no
competition.” If adopted, the rate schedule shall be reviewed by the Council
not less than annually.
   (B)   Payment. A person licensed to provide solid waste collection service
within the city may establish reasonable procedures to assure payment of
charges due from customers. The license holder may require payment monthly in
advance for regularly scheduled service. Collection service for which the
charge is delinquent for a period of 30 calendar days may be discontinued by
the license holder within five calendar days after giving appropriate written
notice to the occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any provisions of this chapter shall be addressed in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 36.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-14-2016)
CHAPTER 114: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Applicability
   
114.02   Purpose
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Actions required by city staff
   
114.05   Actions required by property owner
Permits
   
114.20   Permit required; hold harmless
   
114.21   Permit; fees
   
114.22   Permit duration
   
114.23   Property transfer
   
114.24   Renewal of short-term rental permit
Property Regulations
   
114.35   No pending actions or violations
   
114.36   Signage
   
114.37   Operating requirements
   
114.38   Revocation procedure; violations
   
114.39   Site visits
   
114.40   Public nuisance declared
   
114.41   Indemnification
   
114.42   Discontinuance of short-term rental occupancy
   
114.43   Prohibition of transient use
   
114.44   Density, occupancy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to all short-term rentals operating in
the city limits.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide an administrative framework and
registration requirement for short-term rentals operating in the city limits.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT(S). The person applying for a permit to operate a short-term
rental in the city.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. A property management company, or other entity or person
designated by the owner, in writing, to act on the owner’s behalf.
   BEDROOM. Any space in a dwelling that contains a closet and at least one bed
or other sleeping structure.
   CITY. The City of Dunes City, Oregon.
   CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL. The city’s elected legislative body.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or his or her designee(s).
   CODE. The Dunes City Code of Ordinances.
   DWELLING UNIT(S). A living facility that includes provisions for sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation, as required by the Uniform Building Code,
being O.R.S. 455.010 et seq., for not more than one family.
   EMERGENCY CONTACT. The individual identified by the owner or the owner’s
agent to be the contact point 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to resolve
problems or complaints associated with the use of the short-term rental unit.
The EMERGENCY CONTACT must be a permanent resident within the city urban growth
boundary, or an individual or staff of a business that manages rental of real
property who is available to be at the rental unit within 30 minutes.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, registered domestic partner, parents, children,
children of the spouse/registered domestic partner, siblings, grandparents,
grandchildren, parents of the spouse/registered domestic partner, and other
close relatives who reside in the owner’s household.
   PERMIT OR OPERATING PERMIT. The permit required to operate a short-term
rental under this chapter.
   MAXIMUM NUMBER. In terms of short-term rentals within the urban growth
boundary of the city shall be “to be determined” (TBD). This MAXIMUM NUMBER can
be changed by resolution of the City Council.
   OWNER(S). The natural person or legal entity that owns and holds legal and/
or equitable title to the subject property. If the owner is a business entity
such as a partnership, corporation, limited liability company, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership, or similar entity, each person who
owns an interest in that business entity is considered an owner. For purposes
of filing applications and/or other documentation with the city under this
chapter, OWNER includes the authorized agent.
   PERMITTEE(S). The owner who has received a permit under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, firm, association,
trust, incorporated organization, and/or any other entity, whether acting in an
individual, fiduciary, or other capacity.
   PERSONAL DELIVERY or PERSONAL SERVICE. Delivering legal documents or other
information by handing such documents directly to the person named in the
document.
   REVOCATION. The act of annulment, recalling or rescinding any approved
permit issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL(S). A permanent residential dwelling unit or any portion
of a residential property, rented for occupancy for a period less than 30
consecutive calendar days. Shifting between a greater than 30-day rental period
and a less than 30-day rental period during the same permit term does not
affect the permit terms and requirements contained in this chapter. SHORT-TERM
RENTAL(S) does not mean recreational vehicle parks where only parking is
provided to RV owners or campgrounds. SHORT-TERM RENTALS does not mean
commercially zoned properties.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL FACILITATORS. Any natural person, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture,
firm, association, trust, incorporated organization, and/or any other entity,
whether acting in an individual, fiduciary, or other capacity, providing short-
term rental services, advertising, and/or rental management services to a
short-term rental property owner for a fee.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL OPERATING PERMIT OR PERMIT(S). Permission granted by the
city under this chapter to operate, manage, and/or otherwise make available for
rent a short-term rental.
   TRANSFER. Any change of ownership of a property approved to operate as a
short-term rental under this chapter, whether or not there is consideration
provided, and including the transfer to heirs of the permittee by reason of
death of the permittee(s); however, TRANSFER does not include the following:
      (1)   Upon the death of the owner, a change in ownership where title is
held in survivorship with a spouse or domestic partner;
      (2)   A transfer to a trust which benefits only the decedent’s spouse,
child(ren), or registered domestic partner for the lifetime of the spouse,
child(ren), or registered domestic partner;
      (3)   The transfer of ownership of the real property to or between the
members of a limited liability company or partnership when the transfer
involves the same owner(s); and/or
      (4)   The transfer to a trustee, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
partnership, a limited liability partnership, or other similar entity, if at
least one owner is living at the time of transfer and retains at least a 25%
interest in the entity.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.04 ACTIONS REQUIRED BY CITY STAFF.
   (A)   Complaint review.
      (1)   (a)   The city will conduct a review of any complaints that were
made against an existing short-term rental during the prior permit term to
determine if any such complaints remain unsatisfied or are continuing.
         (b)   When three or more separate complaints are filed with the city
and substantiated to be violations by the city, the city staff shall deny the
issuance of a short-term rental permit.
      (2)   Such denial of a permit may be appealed upon receipt of a filed
written request within 14 calendar days accompanied by an appeal filing fee.
The matter will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting. The Council’s decision on appeal shall be
final.
   (B)   Notice to neighbors.
      (1)   The city will notify property owners within a 300-foot radius of
the short-term rental property address containing contact information for the
owner and/or representative.
      (2)   The purpose of this notice is to inform adjacent property owners
and residents of contact information to report and/or request resolution of
problems associated with the operation of the subject short-term rental.
      (3)   If the permanent contact information changes during the permit
period, the new information must again be mailed or distributed.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.05 ACTIONS REQUIRED BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   The property owner must post the following information in a prominent
location of the short-term rental dwelling and on all advertising rental site
(s):
   (A)   The name of the owner or local representative and a telephone number;
   (B)   The telephone number and website address of Siuslaw Valley Fire and
Rescue, and the County Sheriff’s office;
   (C)   Where their customers may park, as parking on the right-of-way of the
city roadways is not allowed;
   (D)   The maximum occupancy permitted for the short-term rental;
   (E)   The solid waste collection day, pickup location, and requirement to
place all garbage and recyclables in approved containers;
   (F)   Required the city quiet hours pursuant to Chapter 91; and
   (G)   A notice that states:
 
“Woahink and Siltcoos Lakes serve as drinking water sources to this facility.
Please protect lake water quality and surrounding lands as if it is your own
drinking water source—because it is.”
 
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
PERMITS
§ 114.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; HOLD HARMLESS.
   (A)   No person may establish, maintain, operate, advertise, offer, rent,
manage, and/or otherwise make available, and/or allow any other person to make
available for, occupancy and/or use a short-term rental within the city without
first obtaining an approved permit to do business as a short-term rental with
the city and paying all applicable permit fees in accordance with this chapter.
For purposes of this section, ADVERTISE or OFFER includes, without limitation,
through any media, whether written, broadcasted, posted, electronic, web-based,
digital, mobile, or otherwise. This permit requirement extends to short-term
rental facilitators as defined in §
114.03.
   (B)   The issuance of a short-term rental permit shall not be construed to
constitute a permit to engage in any activity prohibited by law or as a waiver
of any other regulatory requirement imposed by the city or by federal, state,
or local law. The permit shall not indicate an endorsement of any business or
business activity. The holder of a short-term rental permit shall hold the city
harmless from any injury to any person or property related to the use of the
permit holder’s property as a short-term rental.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.21 PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Permit. Permit forms will be available at the City Hall. The permit
and supporting documents must be filed with the City Administrator and, in
addition to any other information requested by the City Administrator,
including, without limitation, information necessary to satisfy applicable
criteria under this section, must contain the following information, along with
a certification that the submitted information is true and correct:
      (1)   Owner information. The owner’s name(s), permanent residence address
(es), permanent residence telephone number(s), an email contact, and the short-
term rental address and telephone number. The application must also include the
name(s), mailing address(es), and telephone number(s) of each person holding an
ownership interest in the property, or holding an ownership interest in the
entity that owns the property;
      (2)   Emergency contact information.
         (a)   If the owner does not permanently reside within the city urban
growth boundary and/or is not locally available during the time when the
property is being rented, the owner must provide the name, telephone number,
and email address of two emergency contacts (which can be a person or a
company) who may be contacted concerning use of the property (for example,
complaints) related to the short-term rental. The authorized agents may be the
designated emergency contact for purposes of this provision.
         (b)   Emergency contacts must:
            1.   Be available by telephone 24 hours a day, seven days a week,
including holidays;
            2.   Be prepared to address concerns or complaints, such as
unreasonable use of the short-term rental property, unreasonable noise or
disturbance, disorderly or unlawful conduct, overcrowding of the short-term
rental property, or any other requirement or limit set forth in this chapter or
in the city code of ordinances; and
            3.   At least one of the emergency contacts shall be within a 30
minutes’ drive by motor vehicle to the proposed short-term rental.
         (c)   Any owner who permanently resides within the city urban growth
boundary may be the emergency contact, provided the owner meets all applicable
requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   Emergency contacts may be changed upon written notice to the
city within 14 days of the change.
      (3)   Acknowledgment. Acknowledgment that the city may maintain a list of
active short-term rentals, including, without limitation, the owner and/or
emergency contacts’ names and telephone numbers, publicly available upon
request;
      (4)   Septic expanded use approval. If the property is served by a
private on-site septic system, the property owner shall provide an approved on-
site wastewater authorization notice from the County Sanitarian that indicates
the maximum number of people the septic system is able to accommodate;
      (5)   Applicable homeowner’s association (HOA) rules and regulations.
When the property contemplated to be utilized as a short-term rental in a
subdivision or neighborhood that has a homeowner’s association with adopted
covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs), a copy of the current HOA
CC&Rs must accompany the permit application;
      (6)   Off-street parking. Provide a schematic representation showing the
location of off-street parking for guests and assure all advertising of the
property includes limitations on parking spaces to the amount and places
indicated in the representation;
      (7)   Water source. Provide a copy of the well log, or state-issued
permit or certificate of water right that serves the subject property;
      (8)   Advertisements. Provide a link to all short-term rental
facilitators advertising the short-term rental as available, as well as all
locations where the short-term is advertised for rent; and
      (9)   Additional information. Such other information as the City
Administrator deems necessary to approve or deny this application in accordance
to this chapter.
   (B)   Timing. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, a permit must be
filed with the city in accordance with the following timelines, as applicable.
      (1)   Existing short-term rentals. A complete permit application form and
fee for each existing short-term rental must be received 30 days prior to the
date of expiration of the initial term.
      (2)   New short-term rentals. For an owner of property seeking a new
permit to operate a short-term rental that would result in the permit being
filed after the effective date of this chapter, the owner and/or authorized
agent must submit a complete application and fee for a permit. The city will,
within 14 days, notify the applicant if the permit is deemed complete. The
property may not be listed as available for rent as a short-term rental until
final approval and issuance of the permit is confirmed by notice from the city.
Such notice must be in writing.
   (C)   Incomplete permit. If, after a preliminary review, the City
Administrator determines that an application is incomplete, the city will
notify the applicant, in writing or by electronic mail, of the deficiencies. If
the applicant provides the missing required information within 20 days of the
date of the city’s notice, the application will be considered timely submitted.
If the applicant does not provide the required information, the application
will be deemed withdrawn.
   (D)   Application fee. Each permit application fee must be accompanied by
all applicable fee(s). The application fee will be an amount set from time to
time by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Permit fee. Prior to issuance of a permit, the applicant must pay all
applicable fee(s). The permit fee will be in an amount set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. No portion of the fee is refundable if the
short-term rental is discontinued for any reason.
   (F)   Forms.
      (1)   The City Administrator be, and is hereby, authorized and directed
to use the short-term rental permit application form(s) to collect fees for the
filing of such permit in the amount of $500 as an application fee, $1,000 as a
permit fee, and a 5% monthly fee on the gross revenue from the permitted
rental.
      (2)   The City Administrator be, and is hereby, authorized and directed
to collect non-compliance fees for renting a home without a short-term rental
permit in the amount of $1,500 for the first violation, $2,250 for the second
violation, and $3,375 for the third and succeeding violations.
 
   (G)   Number of short-term rentals. The City Administrator be, and is
hereby, authorized and directed to limit the number of short-term rentals in
the city limits to 35.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024; Res. 10, passed 11-20-2024)
§ 114.22 PERMIT DURATION.
   A short-term rental permit will continue for a period of one year, beginning
on the date of issuance of the permit and ending on the day before the date of
issuance the following year, unless previously denied, suspended, or revoked as
provided in this chapter. Before expiration, the owner and/or authorized agent
must complete a new short-term rental permit application and wait for final
approval by the city before continuing as a short-term rental once the prior
permit has expired.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.23 PROPERTY TRANSFER.
   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, a permit terminates automatically
upon the transfer of property to a new owner as defined in §
114.03 herein, unless said new owner(s) apply to the city with a new
application within 30 days prior to close of escrow. Failure for a new owner to
apply for the property to serve as a short-term rental in the city will be
deemed discontinued, abandoned, and forfeited for failure to obtain a valid
permit to operate as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.24 RENEWAL OF SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT.
   Thirty days prior to the expiration of any term of an existing short-term
rental permit, a new permit and supporting documents, together with appropriate
filing fees, must be filed and approved by the city as set forth in §
114.21.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
PROPERTY REGULATIONS
§ 114.35 NO PENDING ACTIONS OR VIOLATIONS.
   As of the date the application for permit is submitted to the city, the
owner of a short-term rental must not have received a notice of violation
issued by the city, or any civil citation, regarding compliance with the short-
term rental or subject property with any federal, state, and/or local law,
rule, regulations, and/or ordinance, including, without limitation, any
provision of the city code of ordinances. A voluntary assurance of compliance,
negotiated compliance agreement, or deferred sentence agreement will satisfy
the requirement that there be no pending actions or violations. The owner must
be in compliance with any state, county, or city taxing laws, code, ordinance,
or regulations, and subject to the tax administrator’s authority under those
provisions.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.36 SIGNAGE.
   All short-term rental signage, including advertising, will comply with §
156.080.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.37 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided under this chapter, each short-term
rental is subject to and must be operated in accordance with the following
operating regulations, in addition to all other applicable federal, state, and/
or local laws regulations, and/or ordinances.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable laws. The short-term rental must at all
times be operated in compliance with applicable state laws and regulations,
including, without limitation, this chapter; all land use/development,
building, and fire codes; and all other federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and ordinances, including, without limitation, the payment of all
fines, fees, and taxes due and owing to the city.
   (B)   Additional permits required. Each person desiring to operate two or
more short-term rentals in the city limits must have a current city business
license as set forth under Chapter 111.
   (C)   Video monitor service.
      (1)   All short-term rental facilities shall install and maintain outdoor
video monitoring systems to monitor the exterior areas of their properties,
including, but not limited to, entryways, driveways, common areas, and any
other exterior spaces accessible by tenants or the public.
      (2)   The video monitoring system must be capable of recording and
storing footage for at a minimum of 30 days. Footage must be available to
review upon written request by Code Enforcement or city staff within 48 hours
of receipt of request.
   (D)   Response to complaints. The owner and/or emergency contact(s) must
respond to neighborhood concerns and/or complaints in 30 minutes of
notification.
      (1)   Complaints. The owner and/or emergency contact(s) must maintain a
record of complaints and mitigating actions taken in response to each
complaint. Such record must then be made available for inspection by the city
within 48 hours after request from the city staff.
 
      (2)   City authority. Certain types of complaints are subject to the
city’s regulatory authority under other sections of the code. Nothing contained
in this chapter is intended or will be construed to require the owner, agent,
and/or emergency contact(s) to act as a peace officer or Code Enforcement
Officer or put themselves in an at-risk situation. Initial complaints related
to noise disturbances, occupancy, or parking must first be made to the
complainant, or directly to the owner or emergency contact. If there is a
failure to respond by the owner or emergency contact, a complaint should be
submitted on a form provided by the city. City staff will respond and/or
investigate.
      (3)   Records. Subject to applicable law, including, without limitation,
the State Public Records Law, being O.R.S. 192.001 et seq., the city may
provide the owner and/or representative information contained in a complaint.
      (4)   Administrative rules. The City Council may establish administrative
rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this chapter for
purposes of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out, furthering, and/or
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, including, without limitation, the
City Short-Term Rental Regulations. A copy of such administrative rules and
regulations will be on file in the office of the City Administrator and be
posted on the city’s website.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.38 REVOCATION PROCEDURE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation. The City Administrator
may deny, suspend, or revoke a permit to operate a property as a short-term
vacation rental for any of the following:
       (1)   Failure to comply with this chapter and all other laws, rules,
ordinances, or regulations of the city;
      (2)   Submitting falsified information to the city, including, without
limitation, providing material misstatements and/or falsified information in
the initial permit application;
      (3)   Non-compliance with any other city ordinances or regulations or
violations of federal, state, and/or local laws, regulations, and/or ordinances
including, without limitation, transient room tax laws;
      (4)   Repeatedly failing to respond, and adequately resolve complaints
for violations of the this chapter or city nuisance codes; and/or
       (5)   Such other violations of this chapter and/or the City Short-Term
Rental Regulations of sufficient severity, in the reasonable judgment of the
city staff, so as to provide reasonable grounds for revocation of the
registration.
   (B)   Notice. The city staff will provide written notice of any permit
denial, suspension, or revocation, and reasons therefor, to the applicant or
registrant at the property address and at the contact address provided on the
application, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service thereof, 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of the denial,
revocation, or suspension, unless such denial, revocation, or suspension is
based upon a violation that threatens the health and safety of individuals.
    (C)   Appeal. A decision to deny, suspend, or revoke a permit may be
appealed by personally delivering a written notice, either hand delivered or
sent by certified mail with return receipt, of appeal to the city staff,
together with the appropriate fees for filing the same, on or before the
effective date of the denial, suspension, or revocation. The city staff’s
decision to revoke or suspend is stayed pending appeal. The city staff will
transmit the notice of appeal, together with the file of the appealed matter,
to the City Council, after which transmission the City Council will fix a time
and place of hearing of the appeal. The City Council will give the appellant
not less than ten business days’ prior written notice of the time and place of
hearing of the appealed matter. The City Council will determine whether the
city staff’s decision was based on a preponderance of the evidence for factual
matters and non-compliance with applicable law for legal matters. A decision of
the City Council will be reduced to writing and will be based upon the evidence
received and arguments presented. The City Council may amend, rescind, or
affirm the appealed decision. The City Council’s decision will be final on the
date of hearing. The City Council’s decision is the final decision of the city
and is appealable only by writ of review to the County Circuit Court. The City
Council may establish by resolution from time to time a fee for filing an
appeal, which will be jurisdictional.
   (D)   Violations, infractions. Violation of or failure to comply with any
provision of this chapter is punishable upon entry of order by a fine set in
fee schedule which may be established by resolution from the City Council. Each
violation and each day that a violation persists constitutes a separate
offense. The city will be entitled to collect from any owner violating or
otherwise failing to comply with this chapter, the city’s reasonable attorney
fees, and other fees, costs, and expenses incurred by the city to enforce this
chapter. Owners, local representatives, and emergency contacts are jointly and
severally liable for such offenses. The following conduct also constitutes a
violation of this chapter and is a civil infraction:
      (1)   Representing a dwelling unit as available for occupancy or rent as
a short-term rental where the owner does not hold an approved permit issued
under this chapter, or making a short-term rental available for use, occupancy,
and/or rent without first obtaining an approved permit.
      (2)   Advertising for rent and/or renting a short-term rental in a manner
that does not comply with the standards of this chapter; and/or
      (3)   Submitting false or misleading information on a permit application
or supporting documentation.
   (E)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies provided in this section are not
exclusive and will not prevent the city from exercising any other rights and/or
remedies available under law, nor will provisions of this chapter prohibit or
restrict the city or other appropriate prosecutor(s) from pursuing any charges
under city ordinances.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.39 SITE VISITS.
   (A)   If deemed necessary by the city staff, a site visit may be made to the
property to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A courtesy call to the owner will be made so that arrangements for the
site visit can be made.
   (C)   Failure to allow the city staff to conduct the site visit may result
in immediate denial, revocation, or termination of the permit.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.40 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any short-term rental within the city’s incorporated limits in
violation of this chapter is hereby declared a public nuisance and may be
abated pursuant to all available remedies as set forth in Chapter 36.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.41 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By accepting a permit pursuant to this chapter, the owner(s) and emergency
contact(s), on a joint and several basis, indemnify and hold harmless the city
and city’s officers, employees, volunteers, agents, insurers, and self-
insurance pool for, from, and against all injuries, claims, demands, actions,
suits, damages, liabilities, costs, and/or expenses of any kind whatsoever,
including, without limitation, attorney fees and costs arising out of or
resulting from, in any manner, the operation of the short-term rental,
including, without limitation, any bodily injury, personal injury, sickness,
disease, death, property loss, or damage, and/or any other loss.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.42 DISCONTINUANCE OF SHORT-TERM RENTAL OCCUPANCY.
   After a permit has been revoked, suspended, or cancelled, the property may
not be used or occupied as a short-term rental unless and until a new permit is
issued in accordance with this chapter; provided, however, an owner of record
whose permit has been revoked will not be eligible to reapply for a short-term
rental permit for the same property for a period of 12 months from the date of
revocation.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.43 PROHIBITION OF TRANSIENT USE.
   The transient use or short-term rental of residential property by any owner,
person acting as agent, emergency contact(s), real estate broker, real estate
sales agent, property manager, reservation service, or otherwise who uses,
arranges, or negotiates for the use of residential property for remuneration is
prohibited, except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, and for
which a short-term rental permit is issued in accordance with this chapter. The
short-term rental of residential property without a permit is a violation of
this chapter and enforced pursuant to Chapter 36.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 114.44 DENSITY, OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Density limit. Only one short-term rental permit shall be permitted
per parcel.
   (B)   Occupancy limit. The maximum number of overnight occupants allowed
within a short-term rental unit shall be limited to two persons per bedroom, as
the term bedroom is defined in §
114.03, plus two additional persons per short-term rental unit, or the maximum
number of persons the on-site wastewater system can accommodate, whichever is
less. The city staff has sole discretion to determine the final occupancy
limit.
(Ord. 256-B, passed 8-21-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Hunting and trapping
   
130.02   Public nudity
§ 130.01 HUNTING AND TRAPPING.
   (A)   Prohibited. Except as provided by divisions (B) and (C) below, O.R.S.
498.158 is applicable within the city and no person shall hunt or trap any
wildlife within the city.
   (B)   Hunting exception. The hunting of game birds with a shotgun and the
trapping of wild fur-bearing animals are allowed within the city. A person
engaged in the activities described in this section is responsible for
conformance with all other applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   Humane euthanizing exception. A person who has discovered a crippled
or helpless animal as a result of being hit by an automobile or other
significant injury, may safely and humanely euthanize the injured animal and
shall immediately notify the local office of the State Fish and Wildlife
Department, the County Sheriff’s office, and the City Administrator. The city
will make arrangements for the disposal of the animal carcass if it is on a
city roadway, or will contact the appropriate governmental agency if it the
animal carcass is on another entity’s roadway, to arrange for disposal.
   (D)   Violations. Violations of this section shall be addressed in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 36.
(Ord. 240, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 130.02 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUDITY. Appearing in public view in any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Without a covering for the genitalia consisting of an opaque
material which does not simulate the organ covered; and
         (b)   In the case of a female eight years of age or older, with whole
or substantial exposure of one or both breasts.
      PUBLIC VIEW. The view which can be seen from a public highway, easement,
or right-of-way, or from adjoining property.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall appear in a state of nudity while in
public view within the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 109, passed 12-11-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   PLANNING
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SOIL, SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT
      
155.   LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Annexation fees
   
150.02   Building Code activity schedule
Violations
   
150.10   Subdivision violations
   
150.11   Landowner violations
   
150.12   Contractor or developer violations
   
150.13   Enforcement procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ANNEXATION FEES.
   A quorum of the City Council is empowered to establish a fee schedule by
resolution to recover the costs to the city incurred in processing petitions
for annexation.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 137, passed 5-14-1992)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE ACTIVITY SCHEDULE.
   The city hereby adopts the attached revised schedule of fees for plumbing,
mechanical, and structural building permits, as shown in divisions (A) through
(D) below.
   (A)   Plumbing fees.
      (1)   New one- and two-family dwellings.
 
One bathroom                               $150
Two bathroom                               $265
Three bathroom                             $320
Four or more bathrooms, number of fixtures $17/each
Notes to Table:
When purchased as a unit, includes DMV/water distribution and the first 100
ft. of water service.
 
      (2)   Commercial/multi-family units and residential remodels.
 
Fixtures*                                          $17/each
Miscellaneous                                      $225
   Manufacture home (not in park)               $75
   Manufactured home setup (when in park)       $250
   Medical gas system
Repairs, surcharges                                $65
   Minimum fee for repair                       $65
   Minimum fee to cover all other possibilities 8%
   State surcharge**
Sanitary services                                  $75
   First 100 ft.                                $44
   Each additional 100 ft. or fraction thereof
Storm services                                     $75
   First 100 ft.                                $44
   Each additional 100 ft. or fraction thereof
Water services                                     $75
   First 100 ft.                                $44
   Each additional 100 ft. or fraction thereof
Notes to Table:
*   Fixtures include: water closet, lavatory, tub/shower, sink, bidet, laundry
tubs, disposal, dishwasher, clothes washer, water heater, flood sink/drain,
trough drain, drinking fountain, hose bibb, sump pump/ejector, urinal, roof
drain/overflow, catch basin, interceptor/grease trap, dental units, receptors.
**   When applicable, a 25% plan review fee will be assessed for commercial
installation
 
   (B)   Mechanical fees.
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings.
All others                                                            $20/each
Deferred submittal fee                                                $35
Electric appliances (furnace, cooling unit, clothes dryer, exhaust    $14/each
fan, kitchen hood)
For the issuance of each permit                                       $55
Fuel burning appliances (includes furnaces, wood stove, pellet stove, $30/each
insert, fire place)
Gas piping system (new or altered), any number of outlets             $15
State surcharge                                                       8%
Supplemental permit fee                                               $35
Notes to Table:
Mechanical equipment for one- and two-family dwellings includes duct work,
control units, thermostats, filter; volume damper; fresh air intakes. Water
heaters regulated by plumbing code.
 
      (2)   Commercial fee schedule.
Valuation Permit Fee
Valuation           Permit Fee
$1 to $5,000        $70
$5,001 to $10,000   $70 plus $2 for each additional $100 (or fraction thereof)
                    over $5,000
$10,001 to $100,000 $170 plus $10 for each additional $1,000 (or fraction
                    thereof) over $10,000
$100,001 and above  $1,070 plus $7 for each additional $1,000 (or fraction
                    thereof) over $100,000
Deferred submittal  $100
Plan review fee     25% of permit fees
State surcharge     8% of permit fees
 
   (C)   Structural fees.
$1 to $1,000                           $40
$1,001 to $2,000                       $40 for the first $1,000, plus $2 for
                                       each additional $100
$2,001 to $25,000                      $60 for the first $2,000, plus $8 for
                                       each additional $1,000
$25,001 to $50,000                     $244 for the first $25,000, plus $6 for
                                       each additional $1,000
$50,001 to $100,000                    $394 for the first $50,000, plus $4 for
                                       each additional $1,000
$100,000 above                         $594 for the first $100,000, plus $3.50
                                       for each additional $1,000
Other inspections and fees
Additional plan review required by
changes, additions, or revisions       $65/hr*
Deferred submittal                     $100
Fire and life safety plan review (when 40% of permit fee
applicable)                            $65*
Inspection/re-inspection fees, each    $65/hr*
Inspections outside of normal business 65% of permit fee
hours (min. 2 hrs.)
Plan review fee (when applicable)
Notes to Table:
*   Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdictions, whichever is the greater.
This cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hours wages, and
fringe benefits of the employees involved.
 
   (D)   Manufactured dwelling and cabana installation fees.
 
Electrical fees                                                        $75
   Feeder connection                                                $86*
   Other fees (per hour)                                            $86*
   Re-inspection (per hour)                                         $75
   Service connection
Manufactured dwelling and cabana installation permit fee               $160
Plumbing fees                                                          $47.60
   New sanitation/storm sewer                                       $47.60
   New water service                                                $50*
   Other fees (per hour)                                            $50*
   Re-inspection (per hour)                                         $47.60
   Water/sewer connection
State-wide fee as required by O.R.S. 455.220(2) to be collected by the $30
jurisdiction and remitted to the BCD.
Notes to Table:
*   Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest.
This cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and
fringe benefits of the employees involved.
 
(Ord. 183, passed 7-13-2006)
VIOLATIONS
§ 150.10 SUBDIVISION VIOLATIONS.
   The city may withhold building permits on any unsold lots in a subdivision
which the city finds does not comply with:
   (A)   Any duly enacted city ordinance; and/or
   (B)   Any conditions attached to the order which created the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 99, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 150.11 LANDOWNER VIOLATIONS.
   The city may withhold building permits and refuse to process further
applications for land use decisions for any person who owns land in the city if
the city finds:
   (A)   That the owner has, in the past, violated city ordinances and has been
unwilling to correct the violations; and/or
   (B)   That the owner has, in the past, violated conditions attached to
ordinances or orders creating subdivisions or planned unit developments (PUDs),
or other land use orders, and has been unwilling to correct the violations.
(Prior Code, § 150.11) (Ord. 99, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 150.12 CONTRACTOR OR DEVELOPER VIOLATIONS.
   The city may refuse to issue building permits or process land use
applications for any contractor or developer if the city finds the contractor
or developer has, in the past:
   (A)   Violated city ordinances, and has been unwilling to correct the
violations; and/or
   (B)   Failed to comply with conditions attached to ordinances or orders
creating subdivisions or planned unit developments (PUDs), or other land use
orders, and has been unwilling to correct the violations.
(Prior Code, § 150.12) (Ord. 99, passed 12-11-1986)
§ 150.13 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Suspending issuance of building permits.
      (1)   If the Council, following a public hearing, determines that
probable cause exists to believe that a violation of §§
150.10 through
150.12 has occurred, it shall direct the city to send notice to the person
suspected of violating this subchapter. The notice shall state that the person
may appear before the Planning Commission and show cause why the city should
not suspend issuance of building permits for the affected persons or property.
Appeals to the Council will be based on the record, unless the Council grants a
party or citizen the right to reopen the public hearing. Appeals must be filed
within ten days after notice of the Planning Commission’s action is given.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, notice shall be considered given
if it is mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the person to be notified.
   (B)   Refusal to process land use applications.
      (1)   The city may refuse to process land use applications of any
contractor, developer, or land owner, or his or her heirs, devises, or assigns,
if the city finds the contractor, developer, or land owner has, in the past,
violated city ordinances, received notice of the violations and did not, at any
time up to the hearing, correct the deficiencies, or reimburse the city for
costs and expenses and pay any fines incurred by the developer, contractor, or
land owner in the abatement proceeding.
      (2)   If the contractor, developer, or land owner applies for a building
permit, the Recorder shall refuse to issue the building permit.
      (3)   If the applicant feels the rejection is inappropriate, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the Council at any time.
   (C)   Concealed agents.
      (1)   If the Recorder or other city official suspects that the applicant
for a building permit or land use decision is, in fact, a concealed agent for a
developer, contractor, or land owner who has violated city ordinances, and has
refused to correct the violations or reimburse the city for costs incurred and
fines assessed in abatement proceedings, the official shall immediately notify
the Mayor. The Mayor shall appoint one Council member and one Planning
Commission member to investigate the circumstances of the application and
report to the Mayor within the time set by the Mayor. If the investigation
determines probable cause exists to believe the applicant is a concealed agent,
the Mayor shall order the Recorder to refuse to issue the permit and shall
order the application placed as an agenda item on the next Council meeting. The
applicant, and all appropriate parties, shall be provided notice of the
decision, and a hearing provided for the applicant.
      (2)   If the Council finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the
applicant is a concealed agent, the Council may order the permit denied, and
the city is entitled to recover the costs incurred pursuant to the hearing,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 99, passed 12-11-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
32.075 through
32.079
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Inspection Program
   
151.001   Assumption of Building Inspection Program
   
151.002   Codes adopted
   
151.003   Title, purpose, scope
   
151.004   Cooperation with other agencies
   
151.005   Definitions
   
151.006   Conflicting provisions
   
151.007   Powers, duties of Contract Building Official
   
151.008   Deputies
   
151.009   Qualified employee
   
151.010   Right of entry
   
151.011   Occupancy violations
   
151.012   Authority to disconnect utilities
   
151.013   Abatement
   
151.014   Connection after order to disconnect
   
151.015   Liability
   
151.016   Unsafe building structures, building service equipment
   
151.017   Board of Appeals
   
151.018   Appeal of discretionary decision of Contract Building Official
   
151.019   Local Board of Procedure
   
151.020   Limitations of authority
   
151.021   Appeal procedures
   
151.022   Contract Building Official; authority to impose administrative
penalty
   
151.023   Unpaid penalties
   
151.024   Permits required
   
151.025   Phased, deferred permitting
   
151.026   Excavation, grading permits
   
151.027   Application for permit
   
151.028   Permit process for application that requires plan review
   
151.029   Retention of pass
   
151.030   Validity of permit
   
151.031   Expiration
   
151.032   Transfer of building permit
   
151.033   Fees
   
151.034   Expiration of plan review
   
151.035   Building surcharge
   
151.036   Investigation and investigation fee
   
151.037   Fee refunds, waivers
   
151.038   Inspections in general
   
151.039   Job address, inspection record card posting
   
151.040   Connections to utilities
Building Regulations
   
151.055   Permits required
   
151.056   Work exempt from permits
   
151.057   Work exempt from building permits
   
151.058   Plumbing permit exemptions
   
151.059   Electrical permit exemptions
   
151.060   Mechanical permit exemptions
   
151.061   Application for permit
   
151.062   Submittal documents
   
151.063   Information on plans, specifications
   
151.064   Architect, engineer of record
   
151.065   Permit issuance
   
151.066   Inspection, observation program
   
151.067   Application to existing buildings, building service equipment
   
151.068   Additions, alterations, repairs
   
151.069   Existing installations
   
151.070   Existing occupancy
   
151.071   Maintenance
   
151.072   Moved buildings
   
151.073   Temporary structures
   
151.074   Historic buildings
   
151.075   Alternate materials, methods of design, methods of construction
   
151.076   Modifications
   
151.077   Tests
   
151.078   Stop work orders
   
151.079   Suspension, revocation
   
151.080   Inspection requests
   
151.081   Required building inspections
   
151.082   Required building service equipment inspections
   
151.083   Other inspections
   
151.084   Re-inspections
   
151.085   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.086   Certificate issued
   
151.087   Revocation
   
151.088   Permits, plan reviews issued by city without Building Official
involvement
 
   
151.999   Penalty
BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM
§ 151.001 ASSUMPTION OF BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to O.R.S. 455.15, the city hereby implements and assumes a
Building Inspection Program for the city, which shall be comprised of the
administration and enforcement of the State Building Code as defined in §
151.005.
   (B)   The Building Inspection Program shall be administered and enforced
according to the procedures set forth in the State Building Code.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.002 CODES ADOPTED.
   In addition to compliance with this subchapter and other ordinances of the
city, the city adopts the following Building Administrative Code.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the following codes,
standards, and rules are adopted and shall be in force and effect as part of
the city code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of these codes, in addition to their individual
scoping provisions found therein, shall also apply to demolition of structures,
equipment, and systems regulated by such codes:
         (a)   The State Specialty Codes adopted under O.R.S. 446.062, 446.185,
447.020(2), 455.496, 455.610, 455.680, 460.085, 460.360, 479.730(1), or
480.545, and including enforcement and administration of the State Structural
Specialty Code, Mechanical Specialty Code, Residential Specialty Code,
Electrical Specialty Code, Plumbing Specialty Code, State Energy Efficiency
Specialty Code, and Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code programs,
under the authority of O.R.S. 455.153 and 479.855 and as adopted by Ord. 250,
effective June 26, 2020, as amended by Ord. 261, effective January 19, 2022;
         (b)   Appendix Chapter J of the most currently published International
Building Code, as adopted by the State Buildings Codes Division, as published
by the International Code Council, regarding excavation, including the
recognized standards for Appendix Chapter J listed in Chapter 35 of the
International Building Code; Excavation and Grading Permits; and
         (c)   Sections AN 109.4.2 through AN 109.4.3 of the State Structural
Specialty Code for alternate fire sprinkler system requirements. Pursuant to
the authorization by the Director of the Department of Consumer and Business
Services under O.R.S. 455.040(1), §§ AN 109.4 through AN 109.4.2.1 of the State
Building Code relating to fire sprinkler system requirements are hereby
adopted.
      (2)   At least one copy of each of these specialty codes shall be kept by
the Contract Building Official, and the public may view digital versions of the
most current codes on the State Building Codes Division website. City copies
shall be available for inspection upon request at City Hall.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.003 TITLE, PURPOSE, SCOPE.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the Building Administrative
Code, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code” or
“this subchapter.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this code is to provide for the administration
and enforcement of the State Specialty Codes.
   (C)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall serve as the administrative,
organizational, and enforcement rules and regulations for the State Specialty
Codes which regulate site preparation and construction, alteration, moving,
demolition, repair, use, and occupancy of buildings, structures, and building
service equipment within the jurisdictional limits of the city.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.004 COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.
   (A)   Plans for buildings that the Fire Marshal inspects for occupancy
standards under O.R.S. 476.030 are made available during regular the city
business hours at City Hall. Copies of all permits of such buildings or
structures are available to the Fire Marshal’s office upon review of such
plans. The Fire Marshal may provide opinions to city plan review staff.
Meetings may be held between the Fire Marshal and plan review staff to allow
the Fire Marshal’s office to review plans and provide input. The Fire Marshal’s
office may request an approved copy of all plans that include fire suppression
or early warning fire detection systems, or other design features that are
inspected by their office. Any alternate materials or methods of construction
are forwarded to their office upon request. If any alternate method of
construction relates to portions that the Fire Marshal is required to inspect,
it shall be reviewed and approved by the Fire Marshal, the Building Inspector,
and the Contract Building Official. Comments received from the Fire Marshal
will be evaluated by the Contract Building Official prior to the issuance of
the permit. The final authority for interpreting and applying new construction
State Specialty Codes and regulations is retained by the Contract Building
Official until the certificate of occupancy has been issued.
   (B)   Exception: Fire Department access and water supply are regulated by
the Fire Marshal.   
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ALTER OR ALTERATION. A change or modification in construction or building
service equipment.
   APPROVED. Materials, types of construction, equipment, and systems, approved
by the Building
Inspector as the result of investigation and tests conducted by the Building
Inspector, or by reason of accepted principles or tests by recognized
authorities, or technical or scientific organizations.
   APPROVED AGENCY. An established and recognized agency regularly engaged in
conducting tests or furnishing inspection services when the agency has been
approved by the City Council.
   BUILDING. A structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering a use or
occupancy.
   BUILDING CODE or STATE BUILDING CODE. Those provisions of the State Building
Code, and any modifications thereof, adopted by the city pursuant to O.R.S.
455.040, that are part of the Building Inspection Program administered and
enforced by the city. Such provisions include, but are not limited to, the
State Structural Specialty Code, State Reach Code, State Residential Specialty
Code, State Mechanical Specialty Code, State Plumbing Specialty Code, State
Electrical Specialty Code, and the State Manufactured Home Specialty Code.
   BUILDING, EXISTING. A building erected prior to the adoption of this code or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM. The process and procedures by which all
building inspection takes place.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The individual or entity under contract with the city to
provide building and structural inspection services as provided under, and in
compliance with, Oregon Revised Statues, city building codes, and the State
Specialty Codes.
   CONTRACT BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Contract Building Official designated by the
City Council, or his or her designee, charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code.
   BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The plumbing, mechanical, electrical, and
elevator equipment including piping, wiring fixtures, and other accessories
which provide sanitation lighting, heating, ventilation, cooling,
refrigeration, firefighting, and transportation facilities essential to the
occupancy of the building or structure for its designated use.
   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE. The Uniform Code for Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings promulgated by the International Conference of Contract Building
Officials, as adopted by the city.
   DEFERRED SUBMITTAL. As used in this chapter, those portions of the design of
the building/structure that are not submitted at the time of the permit
application, and that are to be submitted to the Contract Building Official
within a specified period.
   MAJOR CODE INTERPRETATION. As used in this chapter, a code interpretation
decision that affects or may affect more than one job site or more than one
inspection jurisdiction.
   DWELLING CODE. The State Residential Specialty Code (ORSC).
   ELECTRICAL CODE. The State Electrical Specialty Code (OESC).
   ELEVATOR CODE. The safety code for elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, and
moving walks as
adopted by the city in §
151.002.
   LISTED and LISTING. Referring to equipment and materials which are shown in
a list published by an approved testing agency, qualified and equipped for
experimental testing and maintaining an adequate periodic inspection of current
productions and which listing states that the material or equipment complies
with accepted national standards which are approved, or standards which have
been evaluated for conformity with approved standards.
   MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION CODE. The State Manufactured Dwelling
Installation Specialty Code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK CODE. The State Manufactured Home Park Construction
Specialty Code.
   MECHANICAL CODE. The State Mechanical Specialty Code.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or part thereof is used or
intended to be used.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the Contract Building
Official authorizing performance of a specified activity.
   PERSON. A natural person, heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, and
also includes a firm,
partnership, or corporation, its or their successors or assigns, or the agency
of any of the aforesaid.
   PLUMBING CODE. The State Plumbing Specialty Code (OPSC).
   QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE. An individual that the city employs and has been
designated to ratify or disapprove a Contract Building Official’s discretionary
decisions. More than one person may be designated a QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE,
provided such person has successfully completed all necessary training for the
position.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK CODE. The State Recreational Vehicle Park
Construction Specialty Code.
   REFERENCE STANDARDS. The standards published by nationally recognized
testing and standards organizations, and referenced in the building codes
adopted by the city.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of any existing building,
structure, or building
service equipment for the purpose of its maintenance.
   STATE SPECIALTY CODES. Specialty Codes adopted by the state which constitute
the State Building Code, which have been delegated to the city for enforcement
containing the provisions for design, construction, alteration, addition,
repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy, and maintenance of
buildings and structures, and building service equipment, as herein defined.
   STRUCTURAL OBSERVATION. The visual observation of the structural system,
including, but not limited to, the elements and connections at significant
construction stages, and the completed structure for general conformance to the
approved plans and specifications, performed by the design professional or an
approved alternate. Reports of STRUCTURAL OBSERVATION shall be submitted to the
Contract Building Official. STRUCTURAL OBSERVATION does not include or waive
the responsibility for inspections required by this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts jointed
together in some definite manner.
   VALUATION or VALUE. As applied to a building and its building service
equipment shall be the estimated cost to construct or replace the building and
its building service equipment in kind based on current replacement costs from
the Building Safety Journal Building Valuation data table, or if inconclusive,
as determined by the Contract Building Official.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.006 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   When conflicting provisions or requirements occur between this
subchapter, the State Specialty Codes, and other codes or law, the most
restrictive shall govern.
   (B)   When conflicts occur between the State Specialty Codes, those
provisions providing the greater safety to life shall govern. In other
conflicts where sanitation, life safety, or fire safety are not involved, the
most restrictive provisions shall govern.
   (C)   Where, in a specific case, different sections of the State Specialty
Codes specify different materials, methods, or construction, or other
requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. When there is conflict between
a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement
shall be applicable.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.007 POWERS, DUTIES OF CONTRACT BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Contract Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
all the provisions of this subchapter and the referenced State Specialty Codes.
For such purposes, the Contract Building Official shall have the powers of a
Code Enforcement Officer and may call upon the City Administrator for
assistance in ensuring compliance with Building Code.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.008 DEPUTIES.
   In accordance with prescribed procedures and with the approval of the City
Council, the Contract Building Official may appoint such number of technical
officers and inspectors, and other employees, as shall be authorized from time
to time. The Contract Building Official may deputize such inspectors or
employees as may be necessary.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.009 QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   The qualified employee is an individual that the municipality employs
and has been designated to ratify or disapprove a Contract Building Official’s
discretionary decisions. More than one person may be designated a qualified
employee, provided such person has successfully completed all necessary
training for the position.
   (B)   Before exercising oversight over a Contract Building Official, the
qualified employee is required to complete the basic training and obtain
applicable certification or other evidence of completion, as defined by the
State Building Codes Division.
   (C)   Within 180 days after being designated as a qualified employee, the
employee is required to complete the advanced training and obtain applicable
certification or other evidence of completion, as defined by the State
Buildings Code Division.
   (D)   (1)   The qualified employee shall be notified in writing, within five
days by the Contract Building Official, for each of the Contract Building
Official’s discretionary decisions.
      (2)   The qualified employee must review and ratify or disapprove a
Contract Building Official’s discretionary decision, in writing, to the
Contract Building Officer and the permit applicant/aggrieved person within 30
days after receiving notice of the decision.
      (3)   The notification shall also inform the permit applicant/aggrieved
person that the decision of the Contract Building Official can be appealed in
accordance with O.R.S. 455.475.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.010 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   When necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of
this subchapter and the State Specialty Codes, or when the Contract Building
Official and/or the Building Inspector has reasonable cause to believe that
there exists in any building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary
to or in violation of this subchapter which makes the building or premises
unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Contract Building Official and/or the
Building Inspector may enter the building or premises at all reasonable times
to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this subchapter, provided that
if such building or premises be occupied, that credentials be presented to the
occupants and entry requested. If such building or premises be unoccupied, the
Contract Building Official and/or the Building Inspector shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. Should entry be refused, the
Contract Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by
state law to secure entry.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.011 OCCUPANCY VIOLATIONS.
   When a building or structure, or building service equipment therein,
regulated by this subchapter, and the State Specialty Codes is being used
contrary to the provisions of such codes, the Contract Building Official may
order such use discontinued by written notice served on any person causing such
use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the use within the time
prescribed by the Contract Building Official after receipt of such notice to
make the structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of such
codes.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.012 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT UTILITIES.
   The Contract Building Official, or his or her designee, shall have the
authority to disconnect a utility service or energy supplied to the building,
structure, or building service equipment therein regulated by this code or the
State Specialty Codes in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an
immediate hazard to life or property. The Contract Building Official shall,
whenever possible, notify the serving utility, the owner and/or occupant, of
the building, structure, or building service equipment of the decision to
disconnect prior to taking such action, and shall notify such serving utility,
or owner and/or occupant, of the building, structure, or building service
equipment in writing of such disconnection immediately thereafter.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.013 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Authority to abate. A condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of this subchapter or the State Specialty Codes is a public nuisance
which may be abated by any of the procedures set forth by city ordinance or
state statute.
   (B)   Authority to condemn building service equipment.
      (1)   When the Contract Building Official ascertains that building
service equipment regulated in the State Specialty Codes has become hazardous
to life, health, or property, or has become unsanitary, the Contract Building
Official shall order, in writing, that such building service equipment be
disconnected, removed, and replaced. The notice itself shall fix a time limit
for compliance with such order. Defective building service equipment shall not
be repaired and/or maintained after receiving such notice.
      (2)   When such equipment or installation is to be disconnected, a
written notice of such disconnection and causes therefor shall be given within
24 hours to the serving utility, or the owner and/or occupant, of such
building, structure, or premises.
      (3)   When any building service equipment is maintained in violation of
the State Specialty Codes and in violation of a notice issued pursuant to the
provisions of this section, the Contract Building Official shall institute
appropriate action to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.014 CONNECTION AFTER ORDER TO DISCONNECT.
   Persons shall not make connections from an energy, fuel, or power supply,
nor supply energy or fuel, to building service equipment which has been
disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the Contract Building Official,
or the use of which has been ordered to be discontinued by the Contract
Building Official until the Contract Building Official authorizes the
reconnection and use of such equipment.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.015 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Contract Building Official charged with the enforcement of this
subchapter and the State Specialty Codes, acting in good faith and without
malice in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby be rendered
personally liable for damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result
of an act of omission in the discharge of the assigned duties.
   (B)   A suit brought against the Contract Building Official or employee
because of such act or omission performed by the Contract Building Official or
employee in the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter, or enforced
by the Code Enforcement Agency, shall be defended by the city until final
termination of such proceedings, and any judgment resulting therefrom shall be
assumed by the city.
   (C)   Where the Contract Building Official is a contracted service, the
contractor will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officials,
employees, and agents from any claims, suits, or action arising out of acts by
the contractor, and his or her employees, agents, and subcontractors that are
outside the scope of the contract agreement while on duty as a Contract
Building Official for the city, or that are as a result of negligence on the
part of the contractor, and his or her employees, agents, and subcontractors.
   (D)   The subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any persons owning, operating, or controlling a building,
structure, or building service equipment therein for damages to persons or
property caused by defects, nor shall the Code Enforcement Agency or the city
be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspections authorized by
this subchapter or permits or certificates issued under this subchapter.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.016 UNSAFE BUILDING STRUCTURES, BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Buildings or structures regulated by this subchapter and the State
Specialty Codes which are structurally inadequate or have inadequate egress, or
which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life are,
for the purpose of this subchapter, unsafe buildings.
   (B)   Building service equipment regulated by such code and State Specialty
Codes, which constitute a fire, electrical, or health hazard, or an unsanitary
condition, or is otherwise dangerous to human life is, for the purpose of this
subchapter, unsafe. Use of buildings, structures, or building service equipment
constituting a hazard to the safety, health, or public welfare by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster,
damage, or abandonment is, for the purpose of this subchapter, an unsafe use.
   (C)   Parapet walls, cornices, spires, towers, tanks, statuary, and other
appendages or structural members which are supported by, attached to, or a part
of a building and which are in a deteriorated condition or otherwise unable to
sustain the design loads which are specified in the Building Code are hereby
designated as unsafe building appendages.
   (D)   Unsafe buildings, structures, or appendages, and building service
equipment, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the Dangerous Buildings Code, or such alternate
procedures as may be adopted by the city. As an alternative, the Contract
Building Official, or other employee or official of the city, as designated by
the City Council, may institute other appropriate action to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate the violation.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.017 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals shall be forwarded to the Contract Building Official at
Northwest Code Professionals, 144 E. 14th Avenue, Eugene, OR 97401, with a copy
to the City Administrator at Dunes City Administrator, P.O. Box 97 Westlake, OR
97493-0097.
   (B)   When any appeal is received, the person aggrieved shall be notified
that he or she has the option of the local appeals process, or to appeal to the
Chief Inspector of the Department of Consumer and Business Services.
   (C)   Any appeal of a decision arising from a plans examination or an
inspection shall be reviewed by the Contract Building Official. The appeal may
be verbal or in writing. There is no cost for this initial appeal. A decision
is generally rendered within three business days of the request.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.018 APPEAL OF DISCRETIONARY DECISION OF CONTRACT BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   An applicant for a building permit may appeal a decision made by a
Contract Building Official under authority established pursuant to O.R.S.
455.148, 455.150, or 455.467. The following apply to an appeal under this
division (A).
      (1)   An appeal regarding the interpretation or application of a
particular State Specialty Code provision shall be made first to the
appropriate Specialty Code Chief Inspector of the Department of Consumer and
Business Services. The decision of the Department Chief Inspector may be
appealed to the appropriate Advisory Board. The decision of the Advisory Board
may only be appealed to the Director of the Department of Consumer and Business
Services if codes, in addition to the applicable specialty code, are at issue.
      (2)   If the appropriate Advisory Board determines that a decision by the
Department Chief Inspector is a major code interpretation, then the Inspector
shall distribute the decision in writing to all applicable State Specialty Code
public and private inspection authorities in the state. The decision shall be
distributed within 60 days after the Board’s determination, and there shall be
no charge for the distribution of the decision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) above, an applicant for a building
permit may appeal the decision of a Contract Building Official on any matter
relating to the administration and enforcement of this subchapter to the
Department. The appeal must be in writing. A decision by the Department on an
appeal filed under this division (B) is subject to judicial review as provided
in O.R.S. 183.484.
   (C)   If an appeal is made under this section, an inspection authority shall
extend the plan review deadline by the number of days it takes for a final
decision to be issued for the appeal.
   (D)   In accordance with O.A.R. 918-020-250, the city will establish a local
Appeals Board, as necessary, to hear an appeal of the Contract Building
Official’s discretionary decision. The local Appeals Board shall consist of:
      (1)   The City Council and Mayor;
      (2)   The Building Official of the county, or in the event the County
Building Official is not available, then the Building Official of Douglas
County; and
      (3)   An individual who engages in the business of building design or
construction may be a member of the local Board, but may not hear an appeal of
a Contract Building Official’s discretionary decision concerning a project that
involves a business or competitor of a business that:
         (a)   The individual owns or manages, or for which the individual
provides services as an employee, agent, or contractor; or
         (b)   A family member or a member of the individual’s household owns
or manages, or for which the family member of the member of the household
provides services as an employee, agent, or contractor.
   (E)   The local Appeals Board will not include any Contract Building
Official.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.019 LOCAL BOARD OF PROCEDURE.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, adopt rules of procedure for
conducting the business of the local Appeals Board. All local Appeals Board
decisions and findings shall be made in writing to the appellant with a
duplicate copy to the Contract Building Official.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.020 LIMITATIONS OF AUTHORITY.
   The local Appeals Board shall have no authority relative to interpretation
of the administrative provisions of the Building Codes or the administrative
provisions of the State Specialty Codes, nor shall the Council be empowered to
waive requirements of either the Building Codes or the State Specialty Codes.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.021 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeal contents.
      (1)   Any recipient aggrieved by a notice of civil penalty may, within 14
days after receipt of the notice, appeal in writing to the local Board of
Appeals. The written appeal shall be accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount
set by resolution, and shall include:
         (a)   The name and address of the appellant;
         (b)   The nature of the matter being appealed;
         (c)   The reason the appellant claims the Contract Building Official’s
determination is incorrect; and
         (d)   The appellant’s desired determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If appealed, any civil penalty shall become final, upon issuance of
the Board of Appeals’ decision affirming the Contract Building Official’s
assessment.
   (B)   Hearing date and notice. Unless the appellant and the city agree to a
longer period, an appeal
shall be heard by the local Board of Appeals within 30 days of the receipt of
appellant’s notice of intent to appeal. At least ten days prior to the hearing,
the city shall mail notice of the time and location thereof to the appellant.
   (C)   Hearing procedure. The local Board of Appeals shall hear and determine
the appeal on the basis of the appellant’s written statement and any additional
evidence the local Board of Appeals deems appropriate. At the hearing, the
appellant may present testimony and oral argument personally or by counsel. The
burden of proof shall be on the Contract Building Official. The rules of
evidence, as used by courts of law, do not apply.
   (D)   Decision. The local Board of Appeals shall issue a written decision
within ten days of the hearing date.
   (E)   Fee refundability. Other than as provided in this section, the appeal
fee is non-refundable. If the Contract Building Official’s assessment is not
affirmed, the local Board of Appeals may refund all or a part of the appeal fee
upon the appellant’s motion at the time of hearing.
   (F)   Appeal to the Department of Consumer and Business Services Advisory
Board. In accordance with O.R.S. 455.690, any person aggrieved by the final
decision of the local Appeals Board, or a subordinate officer of the Department
of Consumer and Business Services as to the application of any provision of a
State Specialty Code, may, within 30 business days after the date of the
decision, appeal to the appropriate Department of Consumer and Business
Services Advisory Board. The appellant shall submit all requisite fees with the
request for appeal. The final decision of the involved city or state officer
shall be subject to review and final determination by the appropriate
Department of Consumer and Business Services Advisory Board as to technical and
scientific determinations related to the application of the State Specialty
Code involved.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.022 CONTRACT BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE ADMINISTRATIVE
PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Upon a determination by the Contract Building
Official that any person, firm, corporation, or other entity, however
organized, has violated a provision of this subchapter, or any rule thereunder,
the Contract Building Official may issue a notice of civil violation and impose
upon the violator and/or any other responsible person an administrative civil
penalty as provided by this subchapter. For purposes of this subchapter, a
RESPONSIBLE PERSON includes the violator, and if the violator is not the owner
of the building or property at which the violation occurs, also includes the
owner or owners. This authority in no way precludes the Contract Building
Official from attempting to secure voluntary compliance prior to issuance of an
order to correct the violation.
   (B)   Order to correct. Prior to issuing a notice of civil violation and
imposing an administrative civil penalty under this subchapter, the Contract
Building Official shall issue an order to correct a violation (order to
correct) to one or more of the responsible persons. Except where the Contract
Building Official determines that the violation poses an immediate threat to
health, safety, environment, or public welfare, the time for correction shall
be not less than five calendar days.
   (C)   Notice of civil violation. Following the date or time by which the
correction must be completed
as required by an order to correct, the Contract Building Official shall
determine whether such correction has been completed. If the required
correction has not been completed by the date or time specified in the order,
the Contract Building Official may issue a notice of civil violation and assess
an administrative civil penalty to each responsible person to whom an order to
correct was issued.
   (D)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building, structure, or building
service equipment, or cause or permit the same to be done contrary to or in
violation of this subchapter and/or the State Specialty Codes.
   (E)   Knowing, intentional, or repeat violations. Notwithstanding §
151.021(B), the Contract Building Official may issue a notice of civil
violation and assess an administrative civil penalty without having issued an
order to correct where the Contract Building Official determines that the
violation was knowing, intentional, or a repeat of a similar violation.
   (F)   Penalty consideration. In assessing an administrative civil penalty
authorized by this section, the Contract Building Official shall consider:
      (1)   The person’s cooperativeness and past history in taking steps to
correct the violation;
      (2)   Any prior violations of this subchapter, of the State Specialty
Codes, or other city ordinances;
      (3)   The gravity and magnitude of the violation;
      (4)   Whether the violation was repeated or continuous; and
      (5)   Whether the violation was caused by an unavoidable accident,
negligence, or an international act.
   (G)   Notice requirements. A notice of civil violation issued under §
151.021(B) shall either be served by personal service or shall be sent by
registered or certified mail and by first class mail. Any such notice served by
mail shall be deemed received for purposes of any time computations hereunder,
three days after the date mailed if to an address within the state, and seven
days after the date mailed if to an address outside the state. Every notice
shall:
      (1)   Describe the alleged violation, including any relevant code
provision numbers, ordinance numbers, or other identifying references;
      (2)   State that the city intends to assess a civil penalty for the
violation and state the amount of the civil penalty and other penalties
imposed;
      (3)   State the date on which the order to correct was issued and the
time by which correction was required, or, if the penalty is imposed pursuant
to division (E) above, a short and plain statement of the basis for concluding
that the violation was knowing, intentional, or repeated;
      (4)   State that the party may challenge the assessment of the civil
penalty to the Board of Appeals; and
      (5)   Describe the process and the deadline for informing the city that
the party is challenging the assessment of the civil penalty.
   (H)   Appeal. Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity however
organized, who is issued a notice of civil penalty may appeal the penalty to
the local Appeals Board. The provisions of §§
151.016 through
151.019, and 151.021, shall govern any requested appeal.
   (I)   Penalty final. If no appeal is timely filed with the Board of Appeals,
a civil penalty imposed hereunder shall become final upon expiration of the
time for filing an appeal.
   (J)   Continuing violations. Each day the violator fails to remedy the code
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
   (K)   Additional penalties. The civil administrative penalty authorized by
this section shall be in addition to:
      (1)   Assessments or fees for any costs incurred by the city in
remediation, cleanup, or abatement; and
      (2)   Any other actions authorized by law, provided that the city shall
not issue a notice of violation pursuant to Chapter 36 for a violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023 UNPAID PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalty collection. Failure to pay an administrative penalty imposed
pursuant to this subchapter within ten days after the penalty becomes final
shall constitute a separate violation. The Contract Building Official is
authorized to collect the penalty by any administrative or judicial action, or
proceeding authorized by division (B) below, other provisions of this code, or
by state statute.
   (B)   Assessment lien. If an administrative civil penalty is imposed on a
responsible person because of a violation of any provisions of this subchapter
resulting from a prohibited use or activity on real property, and the penalty
remains unpaid 30 days after such penalty becomes final, the Contract Building
Official shall assess the property the full amount of the unpaid fine and shall
enter such an assessment as a lien in the city’s lien docket. At the time such
an assessment is made, the Contract Building Official shall notify the
responsible person that the penalty has been assessed against the real property
upon which the violation occurred and has been entered in the city’s lien
docket. The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as all city liens.
Interest shall commence from the date of entry of the lien in the lien docket.
   (C)   Additional penalties. In addition to enforcement mechanisms authorized
elsewhere in this subchapter, failure to pay an administrative civil penalty
imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be grounds for withholding issuance
of requested permits or licenses, issuance of a stop work order, if applicable,
or revocation or suspension of any issued permits or certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.024 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Except as specified in §§
151.055 through
151.088, no building, structure or building service equipment regulated by this
code and the State Specialty Codes shall be erected, constructed, enlarged,
altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted, or demolished unless a
separate, appropriate permit for each building, structure, or building service
equipment has first been obtained from the Contract Building Official.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.025 PHASED, DEFERRED PERMITTING.
   Phased and/or deferred permit submittals will require a pre-application
meeting, and the Contract Building Official and the qualified employee of the
city approval. No approvals will be allowed until the Department is satisfied
that the application is complete. Phased and/or deferred permits shall be
charged an administrative fee of an additional 25% of the plan review fee
requirements of O.A.R. 918-050-0100 and the approved city fee schedule.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.026 EXCAVATION, GRADING PERMITS.
   (A)   Excavation and grading associated with site preparation for
construction of new buildings or structures shall be regulated by the Contract
Building Official with inspections to be done by the Building Inspector. Any
such grading and excavation permits issued associated with the site preparation
for construction of new buildings or structures will be issued as building
permits and processed accordingly, and are regulated by the State Building
Codes. All excavation and grading done in the city must comply with the City
Erosion and Sediment Control Codes contained in §§
154.20 through
154.29, violations of which are administered by the City Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (B)   Excavation and grading permits associated with all other activities
including, but not limited to, septic system installation or repair, and
driveways, will not be issued as building permits, but will be issued as a city
public works permit and all associated fees will not be part of the dedicated
fund permit revenues regulated by the State Building Codes Division. Fees for
such permits shall be set by resolution of the City Council. Inspections will
be done by the City Public Works Maintenance Supervisor, or his or her
designee. If, in the opinion of the Contract Building Official, it is
necessary, the Contract Building Official may request the City Engineer to
review a proposed project and make recommendation. Fees and costs associated
with the City Engineer’s review shall be paid by the applicant.
   (C)   Design standards and methods of grading and excavation must conform
with this subchapter, the State Specialty Codes, and any other provisions of
the city code of ordinances.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.027 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor
in writing on a form furnished by the city for that purpose. Applications shall
provide the minimum information required by the State Specialty Codes.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.028 PERMIT PROCESS FOR APPLICATION THAT REQUIRES PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   An applicant submits a fully completed permit, together with an
original and two copies of all site plans and supporting documentation, if
required. Office staff may assist the applicant by providing the property map
and tax lot number, but the applicant, alone, must fill out the permit
application. Documents may be submitted by mail, in person, or by email. It is
the permit applicant’s responsibility to have approved plans and supporting
documents at the job site for use by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The qualified employee will ensure any licensed contractor in the
state complies with state licensing requirements, as well as all other
administrative and judicial aspects of code enforcement. Contractor applicants
must also hold a current and valid city business license prior to processing
any permit application. When required, plans examiners will verify if plans,
specifications, and calculations have been stamped by a registered design
professional in accordance with the laws governing the practice of architecture
and engineering.
   (C)   The qualified employee will review all documents submitted to ensure
all necessary documents have been submitted. If not, the qualified employee
will contact the applicant via telephone or email to request the additional
documentation.
   (D)   The qualified employee will check to ensure the activities proposed to
be conducted are not on land that is zoned for forestry activities only. If so,
the qualified employee will notify the applicant that he or she must first
obtain a permit from the State Department of Forestry.
   (E)   The qualified employee will check to ensure the activity proposed to
be conducted does not trigger the need for a Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) 1200-C permit. If it does, the qualified employee will notify the
applicant that the documentation and permit will not be submitted until such
time as a DEQ 1200-C permit is issued.
   (F)   The qualified employee will review the documents to ensure the
proposed activity is done in the FEMA flood zone. If work is being done in the
FEMA flood zone, the qualified employee will notify the applicant of the need
to apply for a permit to work in the FEMA flood zone pursuant to Chapter 153 of
the city code (as adopted in Ord. 253, February 12, 2020).
   (G)   The qualified employee will review the documents to determine if the
work is being done in a suspected or known wetland, riparian, or shoreland
zone. If so, the qualified employee will submit a Wetland Land Use Notification
Form to the State Department of State Lands (DSL) and will notify the applicant
that the application will not be submitted to the Building Official for review
until all of the DSL requirements have been met.
   (H)   (1)   Once all documentation is received, including any additional
permits required from state and federal agencies, the qualified employee will
review the documents to ensure compliance with the city code requirements.
      (2)   If not, the qualified employee will notify the applicant of the
city code violations and what is needed to correct them.
   (I)   Once the city qualified employee review is fully complete, the permit
application and supporting documents are scanned and posted into the electronic
permit tracking system for review and approval. The applicant will be notified
that the review process is usually complete in seven to ten days, however, if
there are holidays or vacations planned, it could take longer. If reviewed
plans are not received within the stated time period, the qualified employee
will follow up with the Building Inspector to inquire as
to when the review will be complete. The qualified employee will relay that
information to the applicant.
   (J)   When the approval has been granted by the Contract Building Official,
the qualified employee will notify the applicant to pay for the permit. Payment
can be made in person via cash, check, or credit card, or over the telephone by
credit card. Evidence of the payment is provided to the City Administrator for
entry into the city’s books of account and for deposit as needed.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.029 RETENTION OF PASS.
   One set of approved plans, specifications, and computations shall be
retained by the Contract Building Official for a period of not less than seven
years from the date of completion of the work covered therein and as prescribed
by rule or law, and one set of approved plans and specifications shall be
returned to the applicant and shall be kept on the site of the building or work
at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.030 VALIDITY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The issuance of a permit or approval of plans, specifications, and
computations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or the State Specialty
Codes, or of any other ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The issuance of a permit based on plans, specifications, and other
data shall not prevent the Contract Building Official from thereafter requiring
the correction of errors in such plans, specifications, and other data, or from
preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of
this subchapter or the State Specialty Codes, or of any other ordinance of the
city.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.031 EXPIRATION.
   Every permit issued by the Contract Building Official under the provisions
of the State Specialty Codes shall expire by limitation and become null and
void, if the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within
180 days from the date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by
such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced
for a period of 180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit
shall be first obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one-half the
amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been
made, or will be made, in the original plans and specifications for such work,
and provided further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one
year. In order to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee
shall pay a full permit fee.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.032 TRANSFER OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   A building permit shall only be transferable when authorized by the owner of
the property, in writing.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.033 FEES.
   (A)   Fees. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter or as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the City Council by
resolution.
   (B)   Plan review fees.
      (1)   The fee for each permit shall be in accordance with the uniform fee
methodology prescribed by the state and the fee schedule adopted by the City
Council by resolution.
      (2)   The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions
of this subchapter or the State Specialty Codes shall be made by the Contract
Building Official. The value to be used in computing the building permit and
building plan review fees shall be the total value of all construction work for
which the permit is issued, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing,
electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing
systems, stormwater runoff retention and drainage facilities, and other
permanent equipment.
   (C)   Plan review fees.
      (1)   When submittal documents are required, a plan review fee for the
Contract Building Official shall be paid at the time of permit issuance. In
addition to any plan review fee collected by the Contract Building Official,
the city shall collect a plan review fee in an amount determined by resolution
of the City Council from time to time to offset costs of in-house review of
plans by city staff.
      (2)   The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees
from the permit fees and are in addition to the permit fee.
      (3)   When submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review, or when the project involves deferred submittal items,
an additional plan review fee shall be charged.
      (4)   Plans requiring a fire-life safety review as required by O.R.S.
479.155(2) and O.S.S.C. 106.3 shall be assessed an additional fee of 40% of the
permit fee.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.034 EXPIRATION OF PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Applications for which no permit is issued within 180 days following
the date of application shall expire by limitation, and plans and other data
submitted for review may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed
by the Contract Building Official.
   (B)   The Contract Building Official may extend the time for action by the
applicant for a period not exceeding 180 days on written request by the
applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have
prevented action from being taken. An application shall not be extended more
than once.
   (C)   An application shall not be extended if this subchapter or any other
pertinent laws or ordinances have been amended subsequent to the date of
application. In order to renew action on an application after expiration, the
applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.035 BUILDING SURCHARGE.
   In addition to all other fees associated with each permit, a building
surcharge shall be assessed in the amount of 7% of the permit fee or the sum of
$25, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.036 INVESTIGATION AND INVESTIGATION FEE.
   (A)   Investigation. Whenever work for which a permit is required by this
code has been commenced without first obtaining a permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
   (B)   Investigation fee.
      (1)   An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be the actual or average cost of the investigation to
ensure the unpermitted work complies with the State Building Code.
      (2)   The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt an applicant
from compliance with all other provisions of either this subchapter or the
State Specialty Codes, nor from the penalty prescribed by law. Permits for
emergency repairs obtained within five business days after commencement of the
repair are not subject to the investigation fee.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.037 FEE REFUNDS, WAIVERS.
   The Contract Building Official may authorize refunding of a fee paid
hereunder for Contract Building Official services which was erroneously paid or
collected.
   (A)   The Contract Building Official may authorize refunding of not more
than 80% of the permit fee paid when an application for a permit for which fees
have been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any work has been done or any
inspections made.
   (B)   The Contract Building Official may authorize refunding of not more
than 80% of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which
a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any
examination time has been expended.
   (C)   The Contract Building Official shall not authorize the refunding of
any fee paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee
not later than 180 days after the date of fee payment.
   (D)   The City Administrator may authorize refunding or waiving all or a
portion of permit fees collected on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.038 INSPECTIONS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the Contract Building Official, and the construction
work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved
by the Contract Building Official.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to
remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the Contract
Building Official nor the city shall be liable for expenses entailed in the
removal or replacement of any material required to allow the inspection.
   (B)   The Contract Building Official may implement additional or alternate
inspection procedures or requirements by written administrative rules.
   (C)   Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an
approval of any violation of the provisions of this subchapter or of other
ordinances of the city.
   (D)   A survey of the lot may be required by the Contract Building Official
to verify the structure is located in accordance with the approved plans. All
costs associated with the survey shall be paid by the applicant or property
owner. The Contract Building Official may verify the Building Code required
minimum setbacks for the fire safety requirements of the Building Code. It
shall be the responsibility of the owner and permit applicant to verify the
correct property lines by survey prior to construction of or addition to any
regulated building or structure.
   (E)   (1)   The issuance or granting of a permit or the approval of any
inspections by the Contract Building Official shall not be construed to be a
permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of the
State Specialty Codes or of any other ordinance of the city or other laws.
      (2)   Permits or inspections presuming to give authority to violate or
cancel the provisions of the State Specialty Codes, this subchapter, or other
ordinances of the city or other laws shall not be valid.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.039 JOB ADDRESS, INSPECTION RECORD CARD POSTING.
   (A)   (1)   Work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the permit
holder, or agent of the permit holder, shall have posted the job site address
in a readily visible location to identify the construction site for inspectors
and public safety officials to easily locate the job address.
      (2)   Failure to post the job address in a readily visible location may
result in a re-inspection fee equal to the minimum hourly rate on the fee
scheduled adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   Work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the permit
holder or agent of the permit holder shall have posted or otherwise made
available an inspection record card such as to allow the Contract Building
Official or Building Inspector conveniently to make the required entries
thereon regarding inspection of the work.
      (2)   This card shall be maintained and made available by the permit
holder until final approval has been granted by the Contract Building Official.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 151.040 CONNECTIONS TO UTILITIES.
   (A)   Energy connections. Persons shall not make connections from a source
of energy, fuel, or power to the building service equipment which is regulated
by the State Specialty Codes and for which a permit is required by this
subchapter until approved by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Temporary connections. The Building Inspector may authorize the
temporary connection of the
building service equipment to the source of energy, fuel, or power for the
purpose of testing building service equipment, or for use under a temporary
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 151.055 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No building, structure, or building service equipment regulated by this
subchapter and the State Specialty Codes shall be erected, constructed,
enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted, or demolished
unless a separate, appropriate permit for each building, structure, or building
service equipment has first been obtained from the city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.056 WORK EXEMPT FROM PERMITS.
   A permit shall not be required for the types of work in each of the separate
classes of permit as listed in §§
151.057 through
151.060. Exemption from the permit requirements of this subchapter shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the
provisions of the State Specialty Codes or any other laws or ordinances of the
city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.057 WORK EXEMPT FROM BUILDING PERMITS.
   Exemption from the permit requirements of this subchapter shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter or any other laws or ordinances
of the city. Permits shall not be required for the following in regards to
buildings:
   (A)   A non-habitable one-story detached accessory structure, provided the
floor area does not exceed 200 square feet or a height of ten feet measured to
the eave;
   (B)   Except for barriers around swimming pools, as required in Appendix G
of the Residential Specialty Code, fences not over six feet in height;
   (C)   Retaining walls that are not over four feet in height measured from
the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge;
   (D)   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons, and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed two to one;
   (E)   Concrete sidewalks, slabs, and driveways not more than 30 inches above
adjacent grade and not over any basement or story below;
   (F)   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops,
interior wall, floor, or ceiling covering, and similar finish work;
   (G)   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches deep;
   (H)   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to a one- or two-
family dwelling;
   (I)   Window awnings and patio covers supported by an exterior wall not over
120 square feet in area;
   (J)   Non-bearing partitions, except when such partitions create habitable
rooms;
   (K)   Replacement or repair of siding not required to be fire resistant;
   (L)   Retrofitted insulation;
   (M)   Masonry repair;
   (N)   Porches and decks, where the floor or deck is not more than 30 inches
above grade, and where the edge of the porch, deck, or floor does not come
closer than three feet to property lines;
   (O)   Gutters and downspouts;
   (P)   Door and window replacements where no structural member is changed;
   (Q)   Re-roofing, except in wildfire hazard zones or where replacement or
repair of roofing does not exceed 30% of the required live load design capacity
and is not required to be fire resistant;
   (R)   Plastic glazed storm windows; and
   (S)   Fabric-covered accessory buildings not more than 500 square feet in
area, one story in height, or closer than ten feet to the property line, where
the structure is composed of a rigid framework to support tensioned fabric
membrane that provides a weather barrier.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.058 PLUMBING PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste, or vent pipe does
not require a permit, however, if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil,
water or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and
replace the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work
and a permit shall be obtained and inspected as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The clearing of stoppages or repairing of leaks in pipes, valves, or
fixtures, and the removal or reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require replacement, or rearrangement, of valves,
pipes, or fixtures, does not require a permit.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.059 ELECTRICAL PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A permit shall not be required for minor repair work, including the
replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical
equipment to approved, permanently installed receptacles.
   (B)   All other electrical work shall require a permit.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.060 MECHANICAL PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   A mechanical permit shall not be required for the following:
   (A)   Portable cooking or clothes drying appliances;
   (B)   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe;
   (C)   Portable heating appliances;
   (D)   Portable ventilation appliances;
   (E)   Steam, hot, or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this subchapter;
   (F)   Portable evaporative cooler;
   (G)   Self-contained refrigeration systems containing ten pounds or less of
refrigerant, or that are actuated by motors of one horsepower or less; and
   (H)   Other portable appliances such as freezers, washing machines,
refrigerators, portable barbeques, grills, and the like.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.061 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor
in writing on a form furnished by the city for that purpose. Every application
shall:
   (A)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
the application is made;
   (B)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by map and
tax lot number, street address, or geographic description that will readily
identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
   (C)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is intended;
   (D)   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations, and specifications,
and other data as required in the city code of ordinances and the Building
Code, including Erosion and Sediment Control Plans, if required;
   (E)   State the valuation of any new building or structure, or any addition,
remodeling, or alteration to an existing building;
   (F)   Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant’s authorized agent; and
   (G)   Give such other data and information as may be required by the
Building Official or the city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.062 SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Plans, specifications, engineering calculations, topography, setbacks,
total parcel coverage percentages, diagrams, soil investigation reports,
Erosion and Sediment Control Plans, stormwater runoff control and retention
plans, identification and location of source of drinking water, location of all
utility lines and pipes, septic system placement and replacement areas, special
inspection and structural observation programs, and other data shall constitute
the submittal documents and shall be submitted in one or more sets with each
application for a permit.
   (B)   The Building Official or the City Administrator may require plans,
computations, and specifications to be prepared and designed by an engineer or
architect licensed by the state to practice as such even if not required by
state law.
   (C)   Exception: the Building Official or the City Administrator may waive
the submission of plans, calculations, construction inspection requirements,
and other data if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such
that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with the city
code, the State Specialty Codes, and state law.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.063 INFORMATION ON PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale on substantial paper or
cloth, and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature, and
extent of the work proposed, and show in detail that it will conform to the
provisions of this subchapter and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.064 ARCHITECT, ENGINEER OF RECORD.
   When it is required that documents be prepared by an architect or engineer:
   (A)   The Building Official or the City Administrator may require the owner
to engage and designate on the building permit application an architect or
engineer who shall act as the architect or engineer of record;
   (B)   If the circumstances require, the owner may designate a substitute
architect or engineer of record who shall perform all the duties required of
the original architect or engineer of record; and
   (C)   The Building Official or the City Administrator shall be notified in
writing by the owner if the architect or engineer of record is changed or is
unable to continue to perform the duties.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.065 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The application, plans, specifications, computations, and other
data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the City Permit
Technician or the City Administrator. Such plans may be reviewed by other
departments of the city to verify compliance with any applicable code and laws
established by the city. A mandatory pre-construction meeting with the
contractor and/or owner, the City Permit Technician, the Public Works
Maintenance Supervisor, and any other individuals identified by the City
Administrator will be held to discuss the concepts and plans for the proposed
construction.
      (2)   If the Permit Technician and the City Administrator find that the
work described in an application for a permit and the plans, specifications,
and other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of the subchapter
and the State Specialty Codes, and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and
that the fees specified in this subchapter have been paid, the city shall issue
a permit to the applicant.
   (B)   (1)   When a permit is issued when plans are required, the Building
Official shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and specifications
“Approved” or “Reviewed.”
      (2)   Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed,
modified, or altered without authorizations from the Building Official, and all
work regulated by this subchapter shall be done in accordance with the approved
plans.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.066 INSPECTION, OBSERVATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   When special inspection is required by this subchapter, the
architect or engineer of record shall prepare an inspection program which shall
be submitted to the Building Official for approval prior to issuance of the
building permit.
      (2)   The inspection program shall designate the portions of the work to
have special inspection, the name or names of the individuals or firms who are
to perform the special inspections, and indicate the duties of the special
inspectors.
   (B)   The special inspector shall be employed by the owner, the engineer, or
architect of record, or an agent of the owner, but not the contractor of any
other person responsible for the work.
   (C)   (1)   When structural observation is required by this subchapter, the
inspection program shall name the individuals or firms who are to perform
structural observation and describe the stages of construction at which
structural observation is to occur.
      (2)   The inspection program shall include samples of inspection reports
and provide time limits for submission of reports.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.067 APPLICATION TO EXISTING BUILDINGS, BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   Buildings, structures, and their building service equipment to which
additions, alterations, or repairs are made shall comply with all the
requirements of the State Specialty Codes for new facilities, except as
specifically provided in §
151.070.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.068 ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS, REPAIRS.
   (A)   Additions, alterations, or repairs may be made to a building or its
building service equipment without requiring the existing building or its
building service equipment to comply with all the requirements of the State
Specialty Codes, provided the addition, alteration, or repair conforms to that
required for a new building or building service equipment.
   (B)   (1)   Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing
building or building service equipment which will cause the existing building
or building service equipment to be in violation of the provisions of the State
Specialty Codes, nor shall such additions or alterations cause the existing
building or building service equipment to become unsafe. An unsafe condition
shall be deemed to have been created if an addition or alteration shall cause
the existing building or building service equipment to become structurally
unsafe or overloaded; will not provide adequate egress in compliance with the
provisions of the Building Code or will obstruct existing exits; will create a
fire hazard; will reduce required fire resistance; will cause building service
equipment to become overloaded or exceed their rated capacities; or will create
a health hazard or will otherwise create conditions dangerous to human life. A
building so altered, which involves a change in use or occupancy, shall not
exceed the height, number of stories, and area permitted by the Building Code
for new buildings. A building plus new additions shall not exceed the height,
number of stories, and areas specified by city code for new buildings, nor
shall it result in a violation of erosion and sediment control provisions of
the city code.
      (2)   Exception: Alterations of existing structural elements, or
additions of new structural elements, which are not required to have permits by
§
151.057 and which are initiated for the purpose of increasing the lateral-
force-resisting structure need not be designed for forces conforming to these
regulations, provided that an engineering analysis is submitted to show that:
         (a)   The capacity of existing structural elements required to resist
forces is not reduced;
         (b)   The lateral loading to required existing structural elements is
not increased beyond their capacity;
         (c)   New structural elements are detailed and connected to the
existing structural elements as required by these regulations;
         (d)   New or relocated non-structural elements are detailed and
connected to existing or new structural elements as required by these
regulations; and
         (e)   An unsafe condition, as defined above, is not created.
   (C)   Alterations or repairs to an existing building or structure which are
non-structural and do not adversely affect a structural member, or a part of
the building or structure having required fire resistance, may be made with the
same materials of which the building structure is constructed, subject to
approval by the Building Official. Installation or replacement of glass shall
be as required for new installations.
   (D)   Minor additions, alterations, and repairs to existing building service
equipment installations may be made in accordance with the State Specialty
Codes in effect at the time the original installation was made, subject to
approval of the Building Official, and provided such additions, alterations,
and repairs will not cause the existing building service equipment to become
unsafe, unsanitary, or overloaded.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.069 EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   Building service equipment lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption
of the State Specialty Codes may have their use, maintenance, or repair
continued if the use, maintenance, or repair is in accordance with the original
design and a hazard to life, health, or property has not been created by such
building service equipment.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.070 EXISTING OCCUPANCY.
   Buildings in existence at the time of the adoption of the Building Code may
have their existing use or occupancy continued if the use or occupancy was
legal at the time of the adoption of the Building Code, and provided continued
use is not dangerous to life, health, and safety.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.071 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Buildings, structures, and building service equipment, existing
and new, and parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary
condition.
      (2)   Devices or safeguards which are required by the State Specialty
Codes shall be maintained in conformance with the State Specialty Codes under
which installed.
   (B)   (1)   The owner, or the owner’s designated agent, shall be responsible
for the maintenance of buildings, structures, and their building service
equipment.
      (2)   To determine compliance with this section, the Building Official or
the City Administrator may cause a structure to be re-inspected.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.072 MOVED BUILDINGS.
   Buildings or structures and building service equipment moved into or within
the jurisdiction of the city shall comply with the provisions of the State
Specialty Codes for new buildings or structures and their building service
equipment.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.073 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary structures such as reviewing stands and other miscellaneous
structures, sheds, canopies, or fences used for the protection of the public
around and in conjunction with construction work may be erected by special
permit from the city for a limited period of time.
   (B)   Buildings or structures erected under a special permit need not comply
with the type of construction or fire-resistive time periods required by the
Building Code.
   (C)   Temporary buildings or structures shall be completely removed upon the
expiration of the time limit stated in the permit.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.074 HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   Repairs, alterations, and additions necessary for the preservation,
restoration, rehabilitation, or continued use of a building, structure, or its
building service equipment may be made without conforming to the requirements
of the State Specialty Codes when authorized by the Building Official,
provided:
   (A)   The building or structure has been designated by official action of
the City Council as having special historical or architectural significance;
   (B)   Unsafe conditions, as described in the Building Code, are corrected;
and
   (C)   The restored building or structure and its building service equipment
will be no more hazardous based on life safety, fire safety, and sanitation
that the existing building.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.075 ALTERNATE MATERIALS, METHODS OF DESIGN, METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The provisions of the State Specialty Codes are not intended to
prevent the use of any material method or design of method of construction not
specifically prescribed by the State Specialty Codes, provided an alternate has
been approved by the Building Inspector and its use authorized by the Building
Official.
   (B)   The Building Official may approve an alternate material, method of
design, or method of construction, provided the Building Inspector finds that
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of the
State Specialty Codes and that the material method of work offered is, for the
purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the State
Specialty Codes in suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance,
durability, safety, and sanitation.
   (C)   (1)   The Building Inspector or the Building Official shall require
that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate claims that may
be made regarding the use of an alternate material, method of design, or method
of construction.
      (2)   The details of an action granting approval of an alternate
material, method of design, or method of use shall be recorded and entered into
the files of the city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.076 MODIFICATIONS.
   Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the
provisions of the State Specialty Codes, the Building Official, in consultation
with the City Administrator, may grant modifications for individual cases.
   (A)   The Building Official shall first find that a special individual
reason makes the strict letter of the State Specialty Codes impractical and the
modification is in conformity with the intent and purpose of the State
Specialty Codes.
   (B)   The Building Official shall also find that such modification does not
lessen health, life safety, fire safety requirements, or any degree of
structural integrity.
   (C)   The details of granting modification shall be recorded and entered in
the individual property files of the city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.077 TESTS.
   (A)   Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of the State Specialty Codes or evidence that materials or
construction do not conform to the requirements of the State Specialty Codes,
the Building Official, or the City Administrator may require tests as evidence
of compliance to be made at no expense to the city.
   (B)   Test methods shall be as specified by the State Specialty Codes or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the Building Official shall determine test procedures.
   (C)   Tests shall be made by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall
be recorded and entered in the individual property files of the city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.078 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   When work is being done contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, the
State Specialty Codes, or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented
through the enforcement of this subchapter, the Building Official or the City
Administrator may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on persons
engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, or be posted on the
property where the work is taking place, and such persons shall forthwith stop
the work until authorized by the Building Official and/or the City
Administrator to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.079 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   The City Administrator and the Building Official may, in writing, suspend or
revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter or the State
Specialty Code when the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied, or in violation of an ordinance or regulation or the
provisions of this subchapter or the State Specialty Codes.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.080 INSPECTION REQUESTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by a
permit to notify the Building Official that such work is ready for inspection.
A request for inspection must be filed by 5:00 p.m. the day before such
inspection is desired. Such request may be in writing or by telephone at the
option of the Building Official.
   (B)   There must be a final inspection and approval of all buildings and
structures when completed and ready for occupancy and use. See also §
151.085.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.081 REQUIRED BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Reinforcing steel or structural framework of a part of a building or
structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining the
approval of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, upon notification, shall make the following
inspections.
      (1)   A foundation inspection is to be made after excavations for
footings are complete and required reinforcing steel is in place. For concrete
foundations, required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. All
materials for the foundation shall be on the job, except when concrete is
ready-mixed in accordance with U.B.C. Standard 19-3, the concrete need not be
on the job. When the foundation is being constructed of approved treated wood,
additional inspections may be required by the Building Inspector.
      (2)   A concrete slab or under-floor inspection is to be made after in-
slab or under-floor building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories,
and other ancillary equipment items are in place, but before any concrete is
placed or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
      (3)   A frame inspection is to be made after the roof, framing, fire
blocking, and bracing are in place, and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are
complete, and the rough electrical, plumbing, and heating wires, pipes, and
ducts are approved.
      (4)   A lath and/or wallboard inspection is to be made after lathing and
wallboard, interior and exterior, is in place but before plaster is applied, or
before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
      (5)   A final inspection is to be made after finish grading around the
building is completed and ready for occupancy.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.082 REQUIRED BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Building service equipment for which a permit is required by
this subchapter shall be inspected by the Building Inspector. Building service
equipment intended to be concealed by a permanent portion of the building shall
not be concealed until inspected and approved.
      (2)   When the installation of building service equipment is complete, an
additional and final inspection shall be made.
   (B)   Building service equipment regulated by the State Specialty Codes
shall not be connected to the water, fuel, power supply, or sewer system until
authorized by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   The requirements of division (B) above shall not be considered to
prohibit the operation of building service equipment installed to replace
existing building service equipment serving an occupied portion of the building
in the event a request for inspection of such building service equipment has
been filed with the Building Official not more than 48 hours after the
replacement work is completed, and before any portion of such building service
equipment is concealed by permanent portions of the building.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.083 OTHER INSPECTIONS.
   In addition to all other inspections specified above, the Building Inspector
or the City Administrator may make or require other inspections of construction
work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or State
Specialty Codes, and other laws which are enforced by the Building Official or
the City Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.084 RE-INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A re-inspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or re-
inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not
complete or when corrections called for are not made.
      (2)   Re-inspection fees may be assessed when the inspection record card
is not posted or otherwise available on the work site, the approved plans are
not readily available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the
date for which inspection is required, or for deviating from plans requiring
the approval of the Building Official.
   (B)   This section is not to be interpreted as requiring re-inspection fees
the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of
the State Specialty Codes, but as controlling the practice of calling for
inspections before the job is ready for such inspection or re-inspection.
   (C)   To obtain a re-inspection, the applicant shall file an application in
writing upon a form furnished for that purpose, and pay the re-inspection fee
in accordance with the State Specialty Code or as set forth in the fee schedule
adopted by the City Council by resolution.
   (D)   In instances where re-inspection fees have been assessed, additional
inspection of the work will not be performed until the required fees have been
paid.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.085 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Use of occupancy.
      (1)   Buildings or structures shall not be used or occupied, nor shall a
change in the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure, or
portion thereof, be made, until the Building Official has issued a certificate
of occupancy as provided herein.
      (2)   Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an
approval of a violation of the provisions of this subchapter or of other
ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Change in use. Changes in the character or use of a building shall not
be made except as specified in the Building Code.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.086 CERTIFICATE ISSUED.
   After the Building Official inspects the buildings or structure and finds no
violations of the provisions of the State Specialty Codes, and the City
Administrator or the Permit Technician finds no violations of the provisions of
the city code or other laws which are endorsed by the city code, the Permit
Technician or City Administrator shall issue a certificate of occupancy which
shall contain the following:
   (A)   The building permit number;
   (B)   The address of the building and the map and tax lot number of the
property upon which the building is located;
   (C)   The name and mailing address of the owner;
   (D)   A description of the portion of the building for which the certificate
is issued;
   (E)   A statement that the described portion of the building has been
inspected for compliance with the requirements of code for the group and
division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified; and
   (F)   The names of the Building Inspector, the Building Official, the City
Administrator, and the Permit Technician.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.087 REVOCATION.
   The City Code Enforcement Officer may, in writing, suspend or revoke a
certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this subchapter when
the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information,
or when it is determine that the building or structure, or portion thereof, is
in violation of an ordinance regulations or the provisions of the city code.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.088 PERMITS, PLAN REVIEWS ISSUED BY CITY WITHOUT BUILDING OFFICIAL
INVOLVEMENT.
   (A)   The city issues the following permits and plan reviews without
Building Official involvement:
      (1)   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan review and acceptance;
      (2)   Excavation and grading permits;
      (3)   Vegetation removal in the Shoreland Zone permits;
      (4)   Vegetation removal on city rights-of-way permits;
      (5)   Driveway and road access permits;
      (6)   Temporary right-of-way use permits; and
      (7)   Public street blockage permits.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall meet all of the requirements set
forth in this subchapter, including all information required and the submission
of necessary supporting documents.
   (C)   Fees for such city permits are as set by resolution of the City
Council from time to time.
   (D)   The City Administrator may authorize waiving a permit fee for those
permits issued for purposes of removing vegetation from the rights-of-way of
the city.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of a provision of §§
151.001 through
151.040 shall be subject to an administrative civil penalty not to exceed
$5,000 for each offense, or in the case of a continuing offence, not more than
$1,000 for each day of the offense, and shall be processed in accordance with
the procedures set forth in §§
151.001 through
151.040.
      (2)   The penalties and remedies provided in §§
151.001 through
151.040 are not exclusive and are in addition to other penalties and remedies
available under §§
151.001 through
151.040, other applicable city ordinances, and state law.
   (B)   The provisions of §§
151.055 through
151.088 shall be enforceable pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 36.
(Ord. 250, passed 5-27-2020; Ord. 261, passed 1-19-2022)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§ 32.070 through
32.079
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The revised City Comprehensive Plan, passed by the Council on
September 16, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference, is adopted as the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the city, controlling development and use of all
land and waters within the physical boundaries of the city.
   (B)   A complete text of the Comprehensive Plan is on file for public
reference in the office of the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 61, passed 6-28-1979; Ord. 151, passed 1-23-1997;
Ord. 156, passed 9-16-1997; Ord. 175, passed 6-9-2005; Ord. 223, passed 10-10-
2013; Ord. 226, passed 4-10-2014)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Applicability of provisions
   
153.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard; flood insurance
rate map
   
153.08   Abrogation, severability
   
153.09   Interpretation
   
153.10   Warning, disclaimer of liability
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.25   General standards
   
153.26   Specific standards
   
153.27   Manufactured dwellings
   
153.28   Recreation vehicles
   
153.29   Small accessory structures
   
153.30   Below-grade crawl spaces
   
153.31   Before regulatory floodway
   
153.32   Floodways
   
153.33   Standards for shallow flooding areas (AO Zones)
Permits; Administration
   
153.45   Permit for development required
   
153.46   Permit application
   
153.47   Designation of the local Floodplain Administrator
   
153.48   Duties, responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator
   
153.49   Use of other base flood data
   
153.50   Information to be obtained, maintained by Floodplain Administrator
   
153.51   Alteration of watercourses
   
153.52   Requirements to submit new technical data
   
153.53   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries
   
153.54   Critical facilities
Variance Procedures
   
153.65   Appeal Board
   
153.66   Conditions for variance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in O.R.S. 221.410(1), delegated the
responsibility to local government units to take all action necessary or
convenient for the government of their local affairs, and in O.R.S. 227.010 et
seq., delegated the responsibility to cities to enact zoning ordinances and
regulations pertaining to the development of land.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditures of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets; and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage;
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or may increase flood hazards in other areas;
and
   (F)   Coordinating and supplementing the provisions of the State Building
Code and local land use and development codes.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of
this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, the
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow
may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on
the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) as Zone A, AE, AO, and AH. SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning with the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD.
   ASCE. American Society of Civil Engineers.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Designation on maps always
includes the letters “A” or “V.”
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BELOW-GRADE CRAWL SPACE. An enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than two feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the crawl
space to the top of the crawl space foundation, does not exceed feet at any
point.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, including evacuation centers, and installations which produce,
use or store hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised aboveground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and
         (c)   Mudslides (for example, mudflows) which are proximately caused
by FLOODING, as defined in division (1)(b) above and are akin to a river of
liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when
earth is carried by a current of water and deposited a long the path of the
current.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined in division (1)(a) above.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (for example,
mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).
      (1)   The official map of a community on which the Federal Insurance
Administrator has delineated both special hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
      (2)   A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a DIGITAL
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter found at §
153.26(A)(2).
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED DWELLING does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured dwelling lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NG29), or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation and this
chapter adopted by the city, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, addition placement or other improvement was within 180
days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings piers,
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not a part of the main structure. For a
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure at the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of a floodplain management
regulation contained within this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as the documentation is provided.
   WATER-DEPENDENT. A structure for commerce or industry which cannot exist in
any other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic
nature of its operations.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.06 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD; FLOOD INSURANCE
RATE MAP.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance and
Mitigation Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The
Flood Insurance Study for the City of Dunes City,” dated December 5, 2019, with
accompanying flood insurance maps are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file at the City
Hall. The best available information for flood hazard area identification, as
outlined in §
153.49, shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM is issued which
incorporated the data utilized under §
153.49.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.08 ABROGATION, SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another code provision, ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed
restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (B)   This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be
severable. If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this chapter is held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then
said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.10 WARNING, DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply the land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, any
officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance Administration for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All manufactured dwellings must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA’s “Protecting Manufactured Homes from Floods and other Hazards”
guidebook for additional techniques).
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning
equipment, duct systems, and other equipment and service facilities shall be
elevated above the base flood level, or shall be designed and installed so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components, and to
resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects
of buoyance, during conditions of flooding. In addition, electrical, heating,
ventilating, air-conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and other equipment and
service facilities shall meet all the requirements of this division (B) when
replaced as part of a substantial improvement.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding consistent with the State
Department of Environmental Quality.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      (4)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or five acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study, FIRM, or from another authoritative
source (§
153.49), applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that
proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding, and the like, where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   (F)   AH and AO Zone drainage. Adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided (Zones A1 through A30, AH, and AE) as set forth in §§
153.07 or
153.49 (in A Zones), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a
minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters, and shall be used solely for parking, storage, or building
access. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters and shall be accounted for in the determination of the net open
area;
         (d)   If a building has more than one enclosed area below the lowest
floor, each area shall be equipped with adequate flood openings; and
         (e)   Openings shall not be less than three inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated above the base flood elevation or, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the based flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division (B) based on
their development and/or review of the structural design, specifications, and
plans. Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
153.50(B).
      (2)   Non-residential structures that are elevated and not floodproofed
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
(A)(2) above.
      (3)   Applicants floodproofing non-residential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the floodproofed level (for example, a building floodproofed to the base
flood level will be rated as one foot below).
      (4)   Applicants shall supply a maintenance plan for the entire structure
to include, but not limited to: exterior envelope of structure; all
penetrations to the exterior of the structure; all shields, gates, barriers, or
components designed to provide floodproofing protection to the structure; all
seals or gaskets for shields gates, barriers, or components; and the location
of all shields, gates, barriers, and components as well as all associated
hardware, and any materials or specialized tools necessary to seal the
structure.
      (5)   Applicants shall supply an emergency action plan (EAP) for the
installation and sealing of the structure prior to a flooding event that
clearly identifies what triggers the EAP and who is responsible for enacting
the EAP.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.27 MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS.
   (A)   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings supported on
solid foundation walls shall be constructed with flood openings that comply
with §
153.25.
   (B)   The bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in A Zones shall be
at or above the base flood elevation.
   (C)   New or substantially improved manufactured dwellings shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement during the base flood.
Anchoring methods may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors (reference FEMA’s “Protecting Manufactured Homes
from Floods and Other Hazards” guidebook for additional techniques).
   (D)   Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches above
base flood elevation.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.28 RECREATION VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles placed on sites are required to:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; and
   (C)   Meet the requirements of §
153.27 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured dwellings.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.29 SMALL ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief from elevation or floodproofing, as required in §
153.26(A) or (B), may be granted for small accessory structures that are:
   (A)   In compliance with the State Specialty Codes; if located on a property
zoned residential, the accessory building shall be less than 200 square feet,
or 400 square feet if the property is greater than two acres in area and the
proposed accessory structure will be located a minimum of 25 feet from all
property lines. If located on a property zoned non-residential, the accessory
structure shall be less than 120 square feet. The accessory structure shall not
exceed one story;
   (B)   Not temperature controlled;
   (C)   Not used for human habitation and are used solely for parking of
vehicles or storage of items having low damage potential when submerged;
   (D)   Not used to store toxic material, oil, or gasoline, or any priority
persistent pollutant identified by the State Department of Environmental
Quality, unless confined in a tank installed in compliance with this chapter or
is stored at least one foot above the base flood elevation;
   (E)   Located and constructed to have low damage potential;
   (F)   Constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (G)   Anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood;
   (H)   Constructed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater. Designs for complying
with this requirement must be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect, or meet the requirements of §
153.26(A)(2); and
   (I)   Constructed with electrical and other service facilities located and
installed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of the base flood.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.30 BELOW-GRADE CRAWL SPACES.
   (A)   Below-grade crawl spaces are allowed subject to the following
standards as found in FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01, Crawlspace Construction
for Buildings Located in special flood hazard areas.
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed through
the required openings stated in division (A)(2) below. Because of hydrodynamic
loads, crawl space construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities
greater than five feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified
design professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer.
Other types of foundations are recommended for these areas.
      (2)   The crawl space is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation
and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by
allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood
vent opening can be no more than one foot above the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
      (3)   Portions of the building below the base flood elevation must be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only
the foundation walls of the crawl space used to elevate the building, but also
any joists, insulation, or other materials that extend below the base flood
elevation. The recommended construction practice is to elevate the bottom of
joists and all insulation above the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Any building utility systems within the crawl space must be
elevated above base flood, elevation or designed so that floodwaters cannot
enter or accumulate within the system components during flood conditions.
Ductwork, in particular, must either be placed above the base flood elevation
or sealed from floodwaters.
      (5)   The interior grade of a crawl space below the base flood elevation
must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
      (6)   The height of the below-grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation,
must not exceed four feet at any point. The height limitation is the maximum
allowable unsupported wall height according to the engineering analyses and
building code requirements for flood hazard areas.
      (7)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage system will
vary because of the site gradient and other drainage characteristics, such as
soil types. Possible options include natural drainage through porous, well-
drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles, or
gravel or crushed stone, or drainage by gravity or mechanical means.
      (8)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
per second for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of five feet per
second, other foundation types should be used.
   (B)   For more detailed information, refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.31 BEFORE REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   In areas where a regulatory floodway has not been designated, and where the
flood insurance study indicates that it is possible to calculate a floodway, no
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including
fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1 through 30 and AE on the city’s FIRM,
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one
foot at any point within the city.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.32 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.07 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, encroachments shall be
prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development, unless certification by a registered professional civil
engineer demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that encroachments shall not
result in any increase in levels within the community during the occurrence of
the base flood discharge.
   (B)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is applied for and
approved by the Federal Insurance Administrator, and the requirements for such
revision as established under 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 are fulfilled.
   (C)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
153.25 through
153.28, or ASCE 24, whichever is more stringent.
   (D)   Temporary structures placed in the floodway. Relief from no-rise
elevation, elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for a non-
residential structure placed during the dry season (June through October) and
for a period of less than 90 days. A plan for the removal of the temporary
structure after the dry season or when a flood event threatens shall be
provided. The plan shall include disconnecting and protecting from water
infiltration and damage to all utilities servicing the temporary structure.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.33 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS (AO ZONES).
   Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMS as AO Zones with depth designations.
The base flood depths in these zones range from one to three feet aboveground
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
usually characterized as sheet flow. In these areas, the following provisions
apply.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures and manufactured homes within AO Zones shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the building,
a minimum of one foot above the depth number specified on the FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures within AO Zones shall either:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, one foot or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above two feet above the highest adjacent grade
so that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. If this method is used, compliance shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect as in §
153.26(B)(1)(c).
   (C)   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO Zones on the city’s
FIRM must either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Meet the requirements of this section and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for manufactured homes as set forth in §
153.27.
   (E)   In AO Zones, new and substantially improved accessory structures must
comply with the standards of §
153.29.
   (F)   Enclosed areas beneath elevated structures shall comply with the
requirements of §
153.26(A)(2).
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
PERMITS; ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.45 PERMIT FOR DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
153.07. The permit shall be for all structures, including manufactured
dwellings, as defined in §
153.05, and for all development including fill and other activities, also as
defined in §
153.05.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.46 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
City Administrator and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
area in question; or existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of
materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures and all attendant utilities of all new
and substantially improved structures;
   (B)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of floodproofing in any
structure;
   (C)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods of any non-residential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
153.26(B);
   (D)   A description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development;
   (E)   Base flood elevation data for subdivision proposals or other
development proposals when required in §
153.25(O);
   (F)   Substantial improvement calculation for any improvement, addition,
reconstruction, renovation, or rehabilitation of an existing structure; and
   (G)   The amount and location of any fill or excavation activities proposed.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.47 DESIGNATION OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator is hereby appointed to administer, implement, and
enforce this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.48 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the local Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required;
   (C)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachments provisions of §
153.32(A) are met;
   (D)   Identify and note the base flood elevation and freeboard applicable to
any building requiring a building permit;
   (E)   Review all development permit applications to determine if the
proposed development qualifies as a substantial improvement;
   (F)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development activity is a watercourse alteration; and
   (G)   Review all development permits to determine the location and volume of
any proposed fill or excavation.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.49 USE OF OTHER BASE FLOOD DATA.
   When base flood elevation data has not been provided (A Zones) in accordance
with §
153.07, the local Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from other source
(s) in order to administer §§
153.26 and
153.27.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.50 INFORMATION TO BE OBTAINED, MAINTAINED BY FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The local Floodplain Administrator shall:
   (A)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, FIRM, or required as in §
153.49, obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basements and below-grade crawl spaces) and all
attendant utilities of all new or substantially improved structures, whether or
not the structure contains a basement;
   (B)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures where
base flood elevation data is provided through the flood insurance study, FIRM,
or as required in §
153.49:
      (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
      (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
153.46(C).
   (C)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Upon placement of the lowest floor of a structure (including basement)
but prior to further vertical construction, obtain and record the actual
elevation (in relation to mean seal level) of the lowest floor (including
basement), all attendant utilities in place, and the location and height of all
flood openings for the structure;
   (E)   Obtain and record the actual as-built elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement), all attendant utilities,
and the location and height of all flood openings, prior to the final
inspection;
   (F)   Obtain and maintain all hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed as
required in §
153.32;
   (G)   Record and maintain all substantial improvement and substantial damage
calculations and determinations required; and
   (H)   Record and maintain all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.51 ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The local Floodplain Administrator shall:
   (A)   Notify adjacent communities and the Department of Land Conservation
and Development, and other appropriate state and federal agencies, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator as required in §
153.52; and
   (B)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.52 REQUIREMENTS TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA.
   (A)   The local Floodplain Administrator shall notify FEMA within six months
of project completion when an applicant has obtained a conditional letter of
map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA, or when development altered a watercourse,
modified floodplain boundaries, or modified base flood elevations. This
notification shall be provided as a letter of map revision (LOMR).
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for preparing technical data
to support the LOMR application and paying any processing or application fees
to FEMA.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the
community acknowledgement form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirement of the city code and all applicable state and federal laws.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall notify the Federal Insurance
Administrator in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been
modified by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed authority or no
longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
a particular area. To ensure that all flood insurance rate maps accurately
represent the community’s boundaries, included within such notification, a copy
of a map of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the
new corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.53 INTERPRETATION OF FIRM BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations where needed
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions).
   (B)   The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
153.65.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.54 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities, also known as essential and special
occupancy structures, shall be, to the extent possible, located outside the
limits of the special flood hazard area (SFHA; the 100-year floodplain).
Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if
no feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed
within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated three feet above the base
flood elevation (BFE) or to the height of the 500-year flood, whichever is
higher. Access to and from the critical facility should also be protected to
the height utilized above. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation should be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.65 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, as established by §§
32.075 through
32.079, shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall decide appeals when it is alleged there is an
error in any requirement, decision, or determination by the Planning Commission
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the City Council as provided in §
32.079.
   (D)   In deliberating upon such applications, the Planning Commission and
the City Council shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, and standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Planning Commission and/or the City Council, may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   The City Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon
request.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.66 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing items §
153.65(D) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, nuisances, fraud on, or victimization of, the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (E)   Variances, as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance Program, are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, or economic or finance circumstances. They
primarily address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As
such, variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for non-residential building in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry-
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other criteria except division (A) above, and
otherwise complies with §§
153.25 through
153.28 found in this chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation, and that such construction below the base flood elevation
increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be permanently
maintained with the floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $1,000 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs
and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
city from taking such other lawful action as necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-12-2020)
CHAPTER 154: SOIL, SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Vegetation in Shoreland Zone, Riparian Corridor
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Permit for vegetation removal required; exceptions
   
154.03   Permit procedure
   
154.04   Re-vegetation of cleared areas
   
154.05   Vegetation cutting and removal in public rights-of-way
Erosion Control
   
154.20   Purpose, applicability
   
154.21   Definitions
   
154.22   Requirements for an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan; fees;
exceptions
   
154.23   Levels of ESCP; expedited ESCP
   
154.24   Inspection required
   
154.25   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
   
154.26   Correction of ineffective measures, expedited ESCPs; fees, costs
   
154.27   Emergency measures
   
154.28   Duration of maintenance
   
154.29   Enforcement
Stormwater Management
   
154.40   Purpose
   
154.41   Definitions
   
154.42   Stormwater design standards
   
154.43   Drainage Plan submittal requirements
   
154.44   Operation and Maintenance Plan submittal requirements
   
154.45   Public stormwater facilities
   
154.46   Construction
   
154.47   Extension of public stormwater facilities
   
154.48   City acceptance of new stormwater management facilities
   
154.49   Correction of ineffective measures
   
154.50   Maintenance responsibilities
   
154.51   Easements
   
154.52   Inspection
Phosphorus Reduction
   
154.65   Purpose
   
154.66   Definitions
   
154.67   Restrictions on the use of fertilizers
   
154.68   Prohibition of use of phosphorus-containing cleaning agents
   
154.69   Consumer, retailer information
   
154.99    Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Violations, see §§
150.10 through
150.13
VEGETATION IN SHORELAND ZONE, RIPARIAN CORRIDOR
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAINTENANCE, PRUNING, AND LIMBING. Periodic limbing, pruning, and
maintenance of existing cleared areas, LIMBING and PRUNING not to exceed 25% of
any one tree, and TRIMMING of other natural vegetation no closer to the ground
than three feet.
   NATURAL VEGETATION. Any trees, shrubs, brush, plants, or grasses existing
within the shoreland zone or riparian corridor.
   ORIGINAL VEGETATION INVENTORY. All vegetation in the shoreland zone or
riparian corridor for the lifetime of vegetation based on what vegetation has
grown and is growing. (Stumps and other evidence of prior vegetation removal
shall be considered in the determination of the ORIGINAL VEGETATION INVENTORY.)
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any city right-of-way, whether the city has a fee,
easement, or other legal interest in the right-of-way. The city has
jurisdiction and regulatory control over each right-of-way, whether the legal
interest in the right-of-way was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription,
reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosure, or other means.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. Riparian corridor boundaries shall be 50 feet from the
top of the bank of all fish-bearing streams. (For further information, see
Chapter 155, for regulations defining and protecting significant riparian and
wetland areas.)
   SHORELAND ZONE. Includes all city lands within 50 feet measured horizontally
from the ordinary high water line of all lakes and below.
   SOIL EROSION. The result of any act which permits any condition to remain,
which will cause soil to be worn away or carried away by the elements.
(Prior Code, § 154.02) (Ord. 154, passed 4-10-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdiction and control over public rights-of-way, see §
90.01
§ 154.02 PERMIT FOR VEGETATION REMOVAL REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A vegetation removal permit is required if any vegetation/tree is
to be removed from the shoreland zone or riparian corridor, except as provided
in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) below.
      (2)   No vegetation shall be removed under a vegetation removal permit
except as follows:
         (a)   Vegetation within 15 feet of the ordinary high water mark in the
shoreland zone or the top of the bank in riparian corridors may be removed if
necessary for the development of water-dependent or water-related uses.
         (b)   1.   As much as 25% of the “original vegetation inventory” of
the land area in any shoreland zone or riparian corridor that is more than 15
feet but less than 50 feet from the ordinary high water line may be trimmed or
cleared of natural vegetation with an approved vegetation removal permit,
provided that such action will not result in soil erosion.
            2.   The “original vegetation inventory” is to be determined by
counting stumps and other evidence of prior vegetation removal, based on what
has been removed and what is growing. (The intent of this is to prevent
subsequent property owners from each taking 25% until the shoreland could be
stripped.)
         (c)   Vegetation which must be removed in conjunction with development
otherwise allowed in the shoreland zone and riparian corridors.
   (B)   Exceptions to permit requirement.
      (1)   A vegetation removal permit is not required for:
         (a)   Periodic maintenance, as defined in §
154.01;
         (b)   Removal of non-native vegetation or noxious weeds such as tansy-
ragwort, Canadian thistle, gorse, or wild Scotch broom; and/or
         (c)   Any tree that is determined to be a sudden or immediate threat
to life, structures, or property. Such a tree may be removed without fee upon
notification to the city requesting an inspection by a member of the
Conservation Committee, or other city designate, for determination.
(Prior Code, § 154.03) (Ord. 154, passed 4-10-1997)
§ 154.03 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permit applications should be made through the City Recorder,
utilizing the appropriate form.
   (B)   The application shall include a map of the property, including
dimensions, legal description, the original vegetation inventory, as defined in
§
154.01, and an inventory of existing vegetation, indicating that which is
proposed for removal.
   (C)   The application shall state reasons for vegetation removal and what
steps will be taken to prevent soil erosion and minimize impacts on wildlife
habitat, scenic values, and water quality.
   (D)   Upon receiving an application, the City Recorder will immediately
arrange a visit to the site and prepare a written report for the Planning
Commission’s next regular meeting.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The State Coastal Shorelands Goals;
      (2)   The effect the proposed changes will have on scenic values from
adjoining properties and bodies of water; and
      (3)   The effect the proposed changes will have on fish and wildlife
habitat, soil erosion, and water quality.
   (F)   The Planning Commission will modify, approve, or deny the proposal.
   (G)   An appeal of the Planning Commission decision may be made to the City
Council by the applicant or an interested person, or by the City Council’s own
motion. Such appeal shall be taken no later than ten days after the Planning
Commission’s action.
      (1)   The appeal notice shall be filed in written form with the City
Council and shall include a concise statement of the grounds upon which the
appellant claims the decision appealed was erroneous.
      (2)   The city shall notify the appellant by letter confirming the
receipt of the appeal and stating the appeal procedures, and date the appeal
will be heard by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 154.04) (Ord. 154, passed 4-10-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
32.075 through
32.079
§ 154.04 RE-VEGETATION OF CLEARED AREAS.
   (A)   Any parcel that has been logged under a permit from the State Forestry
Department and has been removed from the jurisdiction of the State Forestry
Department before it is reforested by reason of application for change of land
use will not be granted any development permits unless:
      (1)   It is reforested to the specifications of the State Forestry
Department; or
      (2)   A re-vegetation plan is approved by the City Council.
   (B)   In reviewing a re-vegetation plan required in this division (A), the
City Council shall consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The provisions of the State Coastal Shorelands Goal;
      (2)   City citizens’ desire as stated in the preamble to Ord. 154; and
      (3)   Any other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.06) (Ord. 154, passed 4-10-1997)
§ 154.05 VEGETATION CUTTING AND REMOVAL IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No tree or vegetation shall be cut or removed from any public right-
of-way without permission of the City Administrator.
   (B)   The following practices are exempt from this section:
      (1)   Weed and brush control on gravel shoulders;
      (2)   Weed and brush control in drainage ditches;
      (3)   Vegetation control operations conducted by the Public Utility
District, the telephone company, and cable television franchises in areas
within public easements pursuant to providing franchise services to the
citizens of the city; and
      (4)   Maintenance trimming up to three feet in width on either side of
improved public roadways.
(Prior Code, § 154.07) (Ord. 154, passed 4-10-1997)
EROSION CONTROL
§ 154.20 PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards and
practices to restrict sediments resulting from land disturbance from intruding
into any public water bodies or onto any rights-of-way, or crossing ownership
property lines.
      (2)   The objective is to control erosion at its source in order to
maintain and improve water quality and reduce downstream impacts.
   (B)   In all cases of land disturbance, the responsible party is responsible
for preventing erosion and sediment transport and is subject to requirements
and penalties as listed in this subchapter. This subchapter pertains to planned
land disturbance or to accidental transport of sediments across property lines
and shall apply to activity on both public and private property within the
city.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). A technique, or series of techniques,
which is the best known erosion management practice available to be effective
in protecting water quality and lake and/or stream habitat.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change that results in land disturbance.
   EMERGENCY. A situation which would result in an unacceptable hazard to life,
a significant loss of property, or an immediate, unforeseen, and significant
economic hardship if corrective action is not undertaken.
   EROSION. The process by which wind or water can impact the land surface and
remove sediment. The rate of EROSION depends on a variety of factors such as
type of soil, climate, presence, or absence of vegetative cover, topography,
and surrounding land management practices. EROSION occurs naturally as a result
of weather or runoff, but can be intensified by clearing, grading, or
excavation of the land surface. EROSION usually refers to processes of surface
erosion and not to mass soil movement (landsliding).
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (ESCP). The ESCP provides detailed
information about the construction site, and serves as a blueprint for the
location, installation, and maintenance of the erosion and sediment control
measures.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
   FILL. The placement by humans of sand, sediment, or other material, usually
in submerged lands or wetlands, to create new uplands or raise the elevation of
land.
   GRADING. The act of excavating and moving soil. GRADING also refers to the
mechanical smoothing of a road bed to maintain a free-draining, smooth
traveling surface.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity that results in a change in the existing soil
cover, both vegetative and non-vegetative and both temporary or permanent, and/
or the existing soil topography. LAND DISTURBING activities include, but are
not limited to, demotion, construction, paving, clearing, and grubbing.
   MATERIAL. Soil, rocks, vegetative matter, and non-vegetative matter.
   OFF-SITE. Not located or occurring at the site of a particular development
or on a particular property.
   ON-SITE. The entire property that includes the proposed development.
   PLANNING OFFICIAL. The City Recorder or the City Recorder’s designee.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. A state-registered professional engineer, a state-
registered landscape architect, a state-certified engineering geologist, or a
certified professional in erosion and sediment control (Soil and Water
Conservation Society).
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
      (1)   A person or entity holding fee title to a property, tenant, lessee,
or a person or entity who is acting as an owner’s representative, including any
person, company, non-profit organization, or other entity performing services
that are contracted, subcontracted, or obligated by other agreement to meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any individual or entity who causes land disturbance on land within
the city limits with or without the permission of the landowner.
   SEDIMENT. Soil or other surface material held in suspension in water.
   SEDIMENT TRANSPORT. The horizontal conveyance of sediment suspended in
moving water. Suspension and deposition result from the combined effects of
sediment grain size, turbulence, and channel configuration.
   SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF SEDIMENT. One cubic foot or more of sediment
constitutes a SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF SEDIMENT.
   STORMWATER. Water that originates as precipitation on a particular site,
basin, or watershed and flows over land or impervious surfaces without
percolating into the ground.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR AN EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN; FEES;
EXCEPTIONS.
   For all land disturbances which comprise an area of greater than 4,000
square feet or propose to move more than 50 cubic yards of material, or in any
situation when sediment transport has occurred across property lines, an
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) is required. ESCP approval is required
by inspectors, defined in §
154.23 herein, prior to land disturbance.
   (A)   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan. In all cases of land disturbance,
as defined in §
154.21, and prior to the commencement of any land disturbance, the responsible
party must submit an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) to the city for
approval. The ESCP shall accompany any application for excavation and grading
permit required by the city. Submission of the ESCP must be accompanied by the
payment of ESCP review fees in an amount set by the City Council from time to
time. The specific erosion control measures and best management practices
(BMPs) to be used shall be selected from the State Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) “Construction Stormwater Erosion and Sediment Control Manual”
(January 2013), or other standards which may be adopted by City Council
resolution. These practices shall be the primary guide for establishing and
reviewing the Erosion Control Plan and its application.
   (B)   Exceptions to Erosion and Sediment Control Plan requirement. No
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan is required for all land disturbances,
including vegetable gardens and orchards, which:
      (1)   Comprise an area of less than 4,000 square feet or proposes to move
less than 50 cubic yards;
      (2)   Does not disturb land within 100 horizontal feet of the high water
level of any lake; and
      (3)   Does not occur on lands having slope of 15% or greater.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.23 LEVELS OF ESCP; EXPEDITED ESCP.
   There are three levels of Erosion and Sediment Control Plans.
   (A)   Simple ESCP. A simple ESCP does not require professional engineering,
but is an outline including and addressing the requirements and standards
identified in §
154.25(A), and includes a general plan with drawings of the site. A simple ESCP
shall be used for planned land disturbance of greater than 4,000 square feet or
greater than 50 cubic yards, with slopes of less than 15%, and where no portion
of the land disturbance occurs within 100 horizontal feet of the high water
level of any lake.
   (B)   Standard ESCP. A standard ESCP shall be prepared and stamped by a
qualified professional, as defined in §
154.21, which includes scale drawings of the full site and detailed plans for
erosion control. The standard ESCP must be accompanied by a full set of
drawings according to the current “State Department of Environmental Quality
Manual” and any standards contained in §
154.25(A). In all cases, the drawing shall indicate all slopes where the slopes
are 15% or greater and will identify a 100 horizontal foot setback from the
ordinary high water level of any lake. A standard ESCP shall be required for
all planned land disturbances not subject to the exceptions listed in §
154.22, or to the requirements of a simple ESCP as described in division (A)
above.
   (C)   Expedited ESCP. An expedited ESCP may be required when previous
methods of sediment and erosion control have not been effective and sediment
transport occurs, moving material across property lines. See §
154.26 regarding correction of ineffective measures and expedited plans.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.24 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All ESCPs shall be inspected as follows:
      (1)   Roads and driveways that require an ESCP will be inspected by the
City Engineer;
      (2)   Standard ESCPs will also be inspected by the City Engineer; and
      (3)   Simple ESCPs will be inspected by the Planning Official, or an
authorized city representative.
   (B)   Costs associated with inspection will be billed to and paid by the
responsible party within 30 days of invoicing by the city. Failure to pay the
invoice within such time period may result in referral of the matter to the
City Code Enforcement Officer for action pursuant to Chapter 36.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.25 EROSION AND EROSION SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Plan standards. All ESCPs shall address the following standards:
      (1)    Specific measures to prevent erosion and sediment transport are to
be included in the plan;
      (2)   The plan is designed to limit land disturbance of natural
topography and soils;
      (3)   The site design plan will seek to preserve native vegetation,
healthy trees and ground cover;
      (4)   Activities will be scheduled to avoid land disturbance during
periods of heavy rain;
      (5)   Measures are specified to stabilize disturbed soils if land
disturbance activities cease for any extended period of time;
      (6)   Measures are specified for delineation and protection of wetlands,
riparian, or shoreland areas (zones) on the parcel; and
      (7)   Control measures are included for site access points to prevent
tracking of sediments off-site by any equipment.
   (B)   Plan submission requirements. All ESCPs shall address all items in
division (A) above, as well as the following specific items:
      (1)   A description of the project, including the name, address,
telephone number, and email address, if any, of the property owner, the map and
tax lot number, and street address, if any, of the site;
      (2)   A drawing of the lot, showing the planned area of ground
disturbance, riparian areas, and waterways. This drawing must be to scale for a
standard ESCP;
      (3)   A schedule of activities designed to minimize land disturbance
during wet weather;
      (4)   The manner and method of covering, or otherwise protecting, bare
soil during wet weather;
      (5)   A manner and method of controlling perimeter erosion;
      (6)   The site entrance and exit sediment control manner and method; and
      (7)   The designation of an on-site representative, including name,
business name, address, and contact telephone numbers and email address, if
any.
   (C)   Plan implementation requirements; fees and costs.
      (1)   ESCP approval is required by inspectors, as delineated in §
154.23, prior to land disturbance.
      (2)   The property owner and/or responsible party shall implement the
measures and construct facilities contained in the approved ESCP in a timely
manner and consistent with the following:
         (a)   Erosion control measures shall be installed prior to or
concurrent with any land disturbance or road work. Upon completion of the
installation or a phase of the installation, the on-site representative shall
call for city inspection to certify that erosion control measures are installed
in accordance with the ESCP;
         (b)   In all cases, the property owner and/or responsible party shall
be responsible for maintenance of erosion control measures to ensure that they
are functioning properly without interruption;
         (c)   The removal of significant amounts of sediment that are carried
off the site are the responsibility of the property owner and/or responsible
party. Sediment shall be removed daily from road surfaces. The property owner
and/or responsible party shall also be responsible for cleaning and repairing
streets, catch basins, and adjacent property where sediment transport affects
such properties. In no case shall sediments be washed into storm drains,
ditches, drainage ways, streams, wetlands, or lakes; and
         (d)   1.   Pollutants such as fuels, lubricants, raw sewage, and other
harmful materials shall not be discharged onto the ground, shall be protected
from the weather, and shall be properly stored and disposed of.
            2.   Where the construction process results in or reveals soils
contaminated with hazardous materials or machine fluids, the property owner
and/or responsible party shall remove all spill-contaminated soil from the site
to an approved location. Spill kits are required on-site when construction
machinery is present.
      (3)   Any and all costs associated with inspections to ensure compliance
with ESCPs shall be borne by the property owner and/or responsible party, and
shall be paid within 30 days of invoice for the same. Failure to pay said costs
within said time period will result in the referral of the non-compliance to
the City Code Enforcement Officer for further action in accordance with Chapter
36.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.26 CORRECTION OF INEFFECTIVE MEASURES, EXPEDITED ESCPS; FEES, COSTS.
   (A)   If the implementation of the approved ESCP, based on an inspection of
the site by the appropriate inspector as defined in §
154.24, does not fulfill the requirements of the approved ESCP, the city shall
require immediate compliance, with remedial action to be completed within 72
hours.
   (B)   In the event that visible amounts of sediment have been inadvertently
deposited on adjacent property, on roadways, in a wetland, stream, or lake, the
property owner, or his or her designee, shall take remedial actions within 72
hours to mitigate the inadvertent deposit and must notify the city within the
same time period.
   (C)   If the city finds that significant amounts of sediment have been
deposited on adjacent property, on roadways, or in a wetland, stream, or lake,
the property owner has 48 hours to correct the problem in consultation with the
city or be in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   (1)   In the event that the above remedies are ineffective, a modified
and expedited ESCP shall be provided within five working days after written
notification by the city. This ESCP shall be created in consultation with the
City Engineer.
      (2)   This expedited ESCP shall address measures for immediate erosion
concern as well as prevention of future episodes. The property owner and/or
responsible party shall implement the expedited ESCP within five working days
of approval.
   (E)   (1)   The property owner and/or responsible party shall reimburse the
city for any and all fees and costs incurred by the city in conjunction with
any corrective measures required under this section. Payment of such
reimbursement shall be made within 30 days of invoicing by the city.
      (2)   Failure to make such reimbursement within the timeframe indicated
may result in referral of the matter to the City Code Enforcement Officer for
further action in accordance with Chapter 36.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.27 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   If the property owner, Code Enforcement Official, or City Engineer determine
that the health or safety of residents or the community is under immediate
threat by circumstances that have developed on the site, corrective action,
including excavation or grading, can commence without prior notice to the city.
In this case, notice shall be provided to the city at the earliest possible
opportunity, together with proof that an emergency situation existed.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.28 DURATION OF MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Temporary erosion control facilities constructed to control erosion
shall be removed once the site is permanently stabilized. The ESCP measures are
to be maintained during all periods of construction, whether currently active
or delayed. When the construction activity is completed or ceases, temporary
facilities constructed to control erosion shall be removed once the site is
permanently stabilized. Subsequent to the above circumstances, the individual
property owner is then responsible for the continued observance and maintenance
of the ESCP on his or her property as applicable and described in this
subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of a partition, subdivision, planned unit
development (PUD), or commercial development, responsibility for ongoing
observance and maintenance of the ESCP measures shall lie with the homeowner’s
association or responsible parties that are owners of the property.
      (2)   Copies of the ESCP shall be kept in the city offices and made
available for review.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.29 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Failure to carry out the conditions and standards of erosion and
sediment control set forth in this subchapter shall be unlawful and a civil
infraction subject to the enforcement provisions of Chapter 36.
   (B)   In addition to penalties imposed under Chapter 36, the Code
Enforcement Officer may enforce the following additional mitigating measures:
      (1)   Issue a stop work order or suspend any development or building
permit on the subject property, or deny occupancy of the subject property until
erosion control measures have been installed properly and maintained in
accordance with the provision of this subchapter;
      (2)   (a)   In the event costs are incurred by the city to mitigate
problems of erosion or sediment transport caused by the inadequacy of an ESCP
or its application, all costs and penalties must be paid in full by the
property owner and/or responsible party before work is resumed, permits
reinstate, or occupancy permitted.
         (b)   In the event the costs incurred by the city are not reimbursed
to the city within 30 days of issuance of a finding and order of violation
pursuant to Chapter 36, development or building permits can be revoked by the
city and a lien may be issued on the property.
      (3)   (a)   The owner of the property from which the erosion and/or
sediment transport occurs, together with any person or parties who cause such
erosion, shall be responsible for mitigating the impacts of the erosion and for
preventing future erosion.
         (b)   A property owner shall not be held responsible for the products
of erosion or sediment transport that originate on other properties.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016) Penalty, see §
154.99
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 154.40 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect, maintain, and enhance
the public health, safety, and general welfare by establishing minimum
requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of stormwater runoff
associated with existing and future land development within the city.
   (B)   Proper management of stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public
and private property, ensure a functional drainage system, reduce the negative
effects of development on the existing stream channels, assist in the
attainment of water quality standards, help protect the quantity and quality of
the water in the aquifer, enhance and protect the natural environment
associated with the drainage system, and facilitate orderly development while
mitigating the associated impacts of development.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRAINAGE PLAN.
      (1)   The submittal requirement for all projects except those
specifically exempt from the submittal process or subject to the modified
requirements.
      (2)   The PLAN helps to identify the major impact of the proposed
development on the quality and quantity of stormwater, and the proposed
activities to limit and address negative impacts.
   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PLAN. Specifies the proposed stormwater
collection and management facilities to be constructed as part of the
residential developments, partitions, subdivisions, PUDs, and commercial
developments for the purpose of treating and managing water flows from private
grounds. May not be required for all developments.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITY. Drainage and stormwater management facilities
located on private property.
   PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITY. Drainage and stormwater management facilities
located within the public right-of-way or easements dedicated to the city that
are owned and maintained by the city.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person or entity holding fee title to a property,
tenant, lessee, or a person or entity who is acting as an owner’s
representative, including any person, company, non-profit organization, or
other entity performing services that are contracted, subcontracted, or
obligated by other agreement to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES. Facilities or structures that control the
quality or quantity of stormwater, including: detention ponds, water quality
ponds, vegetated swales, water quality manholes, treatment wetlands,
infiltration systems, and the like.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All of the structures and facilities that are designed
for the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment, and disposal of stormwater
runoff and surface water, including both human-made and natural drainage
systems.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.42 STORMWATER DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All stormwater facilities and associated Operations and Maintenance Plans
shall be designed in accordance with stormwater design standards adopted by the
City Council by resolution.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.43 DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   A Drainage Plan is required for all partitions, subdivisions,
PUDS, and commercial development.
      (2)   A Drainage Plan is not required for single-family residential
development.
   (B)   A registered professional engineer licensed by the state shall
prepare, certify, and stamp the Drainage Plan.
   (C)   The Drainage Plan shall be submitted and approved as part of the land
use approval process.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.44 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An Operation and Maintenance Plan is required for all partitions,
subdivision, PUDs, and commercial development. An Operation and Maintenance
Plan is not required for single-family residential development.
   (B)   The Operation and Maintenance Plan shall name the individual(s) or
entity(ies) responsible for ongoing maintenance of the stormwater system and
contact information for said individual(s) or entity(ies).
   (C)   The Operation and Maintenance Plan shall provide for the ongoing
maintenance of stormwater facilities in accordance with the stormwater design
standards adopted in accordance with §
154.42.
   (D)   The Operation and Maintenance Plan shall be submitted and approved as
part of the land use approval process.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.45 PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Storm drainage and management facilities may or may not be publicly
owned and maintained.
   (B)   (1)   Storm drainage and management facilities within a partition,
subdivision, planned unit development (PUD), or commercial development may or
may not be a publicly owned and maintained facility.
      (2)   Generally, if the city owns and maintains the roads and there is
free ingress and egress from the community (not gated), then the city may own
and maintain the stormwater facility, provided the easement and maintenance
requirements of this subchapter are satisfied. Ownership of the stormwater
facility shall be established prior to the approval of the tentative plan.
   (C)   Natural stream and drainage ways may or may not be publicly owned and
maintained.
   (E)   The city may accept ownership of the major components of an existing
stormwater system located within the current city boundary. The city shall
consider the following factors prior to acceptance of any facilities into the
public stormwater system:
      (1)   Standards used in the design;
      (2)   The location of the system relative to the public right-of-way
      (3)   Functionality of the system;
      (4)   Associated flooding problems;
      (5)   Maintenance requirements;
      (6)   Ability to access facilities; and
      (7)   Any other factors pertinent to the decision.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.46 CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to the construction of, or modification to, any public stormwater
facility, a letter of commitment, along with a performance bond or cash deposit
in form and substance satisfactory to the city, shall be submitted by the
property owner, or his or her agent, as a performance assurance for such work.
The amount of the performance assurance shall be the sum necessary to construct
the public stormwater facility improvements. The performance assurance shall
remain in effect until released by the city. A final inspection shall be
conducted by the city upon completion of the work included in the approved
Drainage Plan and/or Operation and Maintenance Plan to determine if the
completed work is constructed in accordance with the plan(s). At a minimum, all
the following must be complete prior to release of the performance assurance:
   (A)   Construction is completed on all public improvements required for the
stormwater drainage and management system to operate. Each components of the
stormwater system must have been inspected and accepted by the city, including
all compaction, pipeline video inspections, and plastic pipe deflection
testing;
   (B)   (1)   The city has inspected and accepted the public improvements, and
the owner has submitted a maintenance assurance (letter of commitment,
maintenance bond, or cash deposit, as approved by the City Administrator, or
his or her designate); and
      (2)   The amount of the maintenance assurance shall be for 10% of the
cost of construction of the public improvements, excluding the cost of
landscaping. The assurance shall be for a period of not less than one year from
the date of completion of construction.
   (C)   For projects with landscaping, the landscaping has been installed and
accepted by the city. A two-year landscaping maintenance assurance has been
submitted and accepted by the city. The amount of the assurance shall be 50% of
the cost of construction of the landscaping features;
   (D)   All on-site and off-site easements, as required by the city, are
granted to the city and recorded with the County Deeds and Records Office;
   (E)   The post construction erosion control is completed; and
   (F)   All required record drawings are submitted.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.47 EXTENSION OF PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   To the greatest extent possible, the public stormwater system shall be
extended up to and through the most distance up gradient and down gradient
parcel boundary(ies) to accommodate current and future flows entering or
exiting the property.
   (B)   Consideration and accommodation shall be made for all existing
drainage routes.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, the extension of the public stormwater
system to serve any parcel or tract of land shall be done by and at the expense
of the property owner(s) or applicant.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.48 CITY ACCEPTANCE OF NEW STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   The city may accept for maintenance all or part of new stormwater facilities
constructed under approved permits. The city may refuse to accept maintenance
of stormwater facilities unless all of the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Improvements in partitions, subdivisions, PUDs, or commercial
development have been completed to the satisfaction of the city;
   (B)   All drainage and stormwater management facilities have been inspected
and have been in satisfactory operation for at least one year; and
   (C)   Any stormwater facility improvements made during the one-year
maintenance period have been inspected and approved by the city.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.49 CORRECTION OF INEFFECTIVE MEASURES.
   If the implementation of the approved Drainage and Operation and Maintenance
Plan, based on an inspection of the site by the City Engineer, does not fulfill
the requirements of the approved Plan, the City Engineer shall require
immediate compliance, with remedial action to be completed within 72 hours of
notification by the City Engineer of the need to correct. Any and all costs
associated with the remedial action and incurred by the city including, but not
limited to, all fees and costs of the City Engineer, shall be borne by the
responsible party and shall be paid within 30 days of invoicing by the city.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.50 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall maintain and operate public stormwater facilities.
   (B)   Private, stormwater facilities shall be the responsibility of the
property owner until such time as a homeowners association assumes
responsibility for maintenance. Any change in the maintenance responsibility
for the stormwater facility requires notification to the city.
      (1)   Private stormwater facilities must be maintained in accordance with
the approved Operations and Maintenance Plan. The Operation and Maintenance
Plan shall be recorded with the County Deeds and Records Office with a copy
provided to the city.
      (2)   A log of all maintenance activity shall be kept by the responsible
party(ies) and made available to the city upon request.
      (3)   (a)   If the responsible party(ies) fail to maintain their
facilities, or if a problem arises and/or a complaint is filed, the City Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee, will take action necessary to
resolve the problem in accordance with Chapter 36.
         (b)   The responsible party(ies) shall reimburse the city for any and
all costs incurred by the city in conjunction with the enforcement and
resolution of the problem, which shall be collected as set forth in Chapter 36,
including, but not limited to, the placement of a lien on the property.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.51 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Public facilities. Public facilities must be placed in an easement,
tract, or right-of-way that allows for the maintenance of these facilities in
accordance with the Operations and Maintenance Plan. The city may determine
that certain privately owned facilities are critical components of the city’s
overall stormwater system. In these situations, the city shall be granted
perpetual, non-exclusive access that allows for public inspection. The access
shall be defined in accordance with the requirements for a public easement,
tract, or right-of-way.
   (B)   Private facilities. Private facilities must be placed in an easement,
or adjacent to a tract or right-of-way that allows for the maintenance of these
facilities in accordance with the Operations and Maintenance Plan.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
§ 154.52 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall inspect the stormwater project as necessary
and shall check materials, equipment, and the construction of the project to
determine whether the work is proceeding in accordance with the approved plans
and the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   An approved inspection report from the City Engineer is required
before issuance of final plat. The purpose of these inspections is to monitor
compliance with city construction standards, and the inspections are for the
benefit of the city. The city does not provide the primary inspection for the
project and only provides a level of inspection necessary to monitor the
quality of work being performed by others. The city’s role in making
inspections is not supervisory and the city has no responsibility, by virtue of
such inspections, for any construction means or methods, or compliance with
safety requirements, that remain the responsibility of the contractor.
(Ord. 233, passed 6-9-2016)
PHOSPHORUS REDUCTION
§ 154.65 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to limit the unnecessary inputs of
phosphorus from fertilizers and cleaning agents into the lakes, streams, and
groundwater of the city.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-8-2007)
§ 154.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC DISHWASHING DETERGENT. Any cleaning agent specifically designed
for use in automatic dishwashers.
   CLEANING AGENT. A laundry detergent, dishwashing compound, automatic
dishwashing detergent, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound,
commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner, phosphate compound, or other substance
that is intended to be used for cleaning purposes.
   FERTILIZER. A substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients
that is used for its plant nutrient content and designed for use or claim to
have value in promoting plant growth. FERTILIZER does not include vegetable and
animal manures, compost, marl, lime, and limestone.
   NON-PHOSPHORUS AUTOMATIC DISHWASHER DETERGENT. Any automatic dishwashing
detergent containing no more than 0.5% phosphorus.
   TURF. Non-crop land planted in closely mown, managed grasses, including, but
not limited to, residential and commercial residential property, and property
owned by local units of governments, including parks and recreation areas. TURF
does not mean pasture, hayland, hay, turf grown on turf farms, or any other
form of agricultural production.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-8-2007)
§ 154.67 RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF FERTILIZERS.
   (A)   A person may not apply any fertilizer whatsoever within the 50-foot
shoreland and riparian setback or within any wetlands, locally significant or
non-locally significant, within the city.
   (B)   A person may not apply a fertilizer containing phosphorus to lawn or
garden plants except under conditions listed in division (C) below.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply when:
      (1)   (a)   A residential property owner or an agent of the property
owner conducts a soil test by a laboratory listed in the State University
Extension Service publication EM 8677, “Nutrient Management Guide, Laboratories
Serving Oregon” using the Bray P1 test.
         (b)   The restriction does not apply if the test results indicate that
the level of available phosphorus in the soil is insufficient to support
healthy plant growth.
      (2)   A residential property owner or an agent of the property is first
establishing turf via seed or sod procedures, and only during the first growing
season.
   (D)   Results of soil test conducted pursuant to division (B) above shall be
submitted to the city for the city’s records prior to application of phosphorus
fertilizer by a residential property owner or an agent of the property owner.
   (E)   Applications of phosphorus fertilizer authorized under division (B)
above must not exceed rates recommended by the State University Extension
Service publication E.C. 1278 “Fertilizing Home Lawns” or E.C. 1503
“Fertilizing Your Garden” as appropriate for soil test results and where
applied.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-8-2007)
§ 154.68 PROHIBITION OF USE OF PHOSPHORUS-CONTAINING CLEANING AGENTS.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, no person may use any cleaning
agent that contains more than 0.5% phosphorus by weight.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-8-2007)
§ 154.69 CONSUMER, RETAILER INFORMATION.
   (A)   Each year, the City Council or designated committee shall make
available to the residents of the city with a list, by brand name, of the most
common fertilizers that do not contain phosphorus.
   (B)   Upon passage of this subchapter, the City Council shall contact the
managers of retail stores in the city and its proximate environs to:
      (1)   Inform such stores about the prohibition on the use of high
phosphate fertilizers in the city; and
      (2)   Request that such stores post signs, labels, or other markings that
clearly distinguishes brands of fertilizers that do not contain phosphorus.
   (C)   Upon passage of this subchapter, the City Council or designated
committee shall make available to the residents of the city with a list, by
brand name, of non-phosphorus automatic dishwasher detergents.
   (D)   Upon passage of this subchapter, the City Council shall contact the
managers of retail stores in the city and its proximate environs to:
      (1)   Inform such stores about the prohibition on the use of high
phosphate dishwasher detergents and other cleaning agents in the city; and
      (2)   Request that such stores post signs, labels, or other markings that
clearly distinguish non-phosphorus automatic dishwashing detergents.
(Ord. 190, passed 3-8-2007)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A) All violations of §§
154.20 through
154.29, and 154.40 through 154.52, and penalties therefor will be administered
under Chapter 36.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who knowingly uses a fertilizer in violation of §
154.67 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
      (2) Any person who knowingly uses a cleaning agent in violation of §
154.68 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 154, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. 190, passed 3-8-2007; Ord. 233, passed 6-9-
2016)
CHAPTER 155: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Administration
   
155.001   Compliance, scope
   
155.002   Consistency with Comprehensive Plan and laws
   
155.003   Use of a development
   
155.004   Pre-existing approvals
   
155.005   Building permit, certificate of occupancy
   
155.006   Official action
   
155.007   Definitions
Enforcement
   
155.020   Minimum requirements
   
155.021   Violation of chapter prohibited
   
155.022   Official action
   
155.023   Authority
   
155.024   Administrative enforcement authority
   
155.025   Authority to inspect, abate; emergency
   
155.026   Recovery of administrative costs
   
155.027   Written complaint; exceptions
   
155.028   Complainant’s right of appeal
   
155.029   Code violations
   
155.030   Notice of violation
   
155.031   Abatement, correction; assessment of cost; lien
   
155.032   Fine assessment, lien
   
155.033   Prohibition against issuance of city permits
   
155.034   Cease and desist, stop work orders
   
155.035   Stipulation agreement
   
155.036   Commencement of civil court action
   
155.037   Joint responsibility
Land Use Zone Administration
   
155.050   Classification of land use zones
   
155.051   Zone maps
   
155.052   Determination of zone boundaries
   
155.053   Zoning of vacated property
Residential (R-1) Zone
   
155.065   Purpose
   
155.066   Allowed land uses
   
155.067   Conditional uses/uses subject to review
   
155.068   Uses not allowed
   
155.069   Requirements in general
   
155.070   Specific requirements
   
155.071   Additional requirements
   
155.072   Residential density
   
155.073   Special standards for certain uses
   
155.074   Manufactured homes, accessory placement standards
   
155.075   Accessory buildings
   
155.076   Bed and breakfast
   
155.077   Residential care homes and facilities
   
155.078   Guest houses
   
155.079   Signs
   
155.080   Recreational marijuana producers
Community Commercial (CC) Zone
   
155.095   Purpose
   
155.096   Allowed land uses
   
155.097   Conditional uses/uses subject to review
   
155.098   Uses not allowed
   
155.099   Requirements in general
   
155.100   Specific requirements
   
155.101   Additional requirements
   
155.102   Signs
   
155.103   Recreational marijuana processors
Open Space (OS) Overlay Zone
   
155.115   Purpose
   
155.116   Lakes and shorelands (R-1 Zone)
   
155.117   Lakes and shorelands (CC Zone)
Fragile Lands (FL) Overlay Zone
   
155.130   Purpose
   
155.131   Excessive slopes
   
155.132   Stabilized or active dunes
Wetland Overlay Zone
   
155.145   Purpose
   
155.146   Goal 5 requirements
   
155.147   Definitions
   
155.148   Determination of significant wetlands
   
155.149   Protection of wetland area
   
155.150   Additional standards for review
   
155.151   Allowed activities within wetland protection area
   
155.152   Prohibited activities within wetland protection area
   
155.153   Notification and coordination with state agencies
   
155.154   Map error corrections and variances
Riparian Overlay Zone
   
155.165   Purpose
   
155.166   Goal 5 requirements
   
155.167   Definitions
   
155.168   Determination of local significant riparian corridors
   
155.169   Protection of riparian corridors
   
155.170   Prohibited activities with riparian corridors
   
155.171   Variances
Design Standards Administration
   
155.185   Design standards administration
Access and Circulation
   
155.200   Purpose
   
155.201   Vehicular access and circulation
Vehicle and Bicycle Parking
   
155.215   Purpose
   
155.216   Vehicle parking and loading standards
   
155.217   Bicycle parking standards
Public Facilities Standards
   
155.230   Purpose
   
155.231   Transportation standards
   
155.232   Public use areas
   
155.233   Sanitary sewer and water service improvements
   
155.234   Utilities
   
155.235   Public utility easements
   
155.236   Construction plan approval
   
155.237   Installation
Solar Access
   
155.250   Purpose
   
155.251   General
   
155.252   Definitions
   
155.253   Solar energy easement appurtenant; termination
   
155.254   Requirements for easement creation by instrument; recordation
Administration of Land Use, Development Permits
   
155.265   Administration of land use and development permits
Types of Applications and Review Procedures
   
155.280   Purpose
   
155.281   Description of permit/decision making procedures
   
155.282   General provisions
   
155.283   Type I procedure (ministerial)
   
155.284   Type II procedure (quasi-judicial)
   
155.285   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial)
   
155.286   Type IV procedure (legislative)
Land Divisions and Property Line Adjustments
   
155.300   Purpose
   
155.301   General requirements
   
155.302   Approval process
   
155.303   Tentative plan submission requirements
   
155.304   Approval criteria; tentative plan
   
155.305   Variances authorized
   
155.306   Final plat submission requirements and approval criteria
   
155.307   Public improvements
   
155.308   Performance guarantee
   
155.309   Filing and recording
   
155.310   Replatting and vacation of plats
   
155.311   Property line adjustments
Conditional Use Permits
   
155.325   Purpose
   
155.326   Approval process
   
155.327   Application submission requirements
   
155.328   Criteria, standards, conditions of approval
   
155.329   Revocation
   
155.330   Additional development standards for conditional use types
Planned Unit Development (PUD) Procedures
   
155.345   Purpose
   
155.346   Description
   
155.347   Objectives
   
155.348   Allowed uses
   
155.349   Approval process
   
155.350   Tentative PUD plan submission requirements
   
155.351   Tentative PUD plan approval criteria
   
155.352   Final PUD plan submission requirements and procedure for final plat
approval
   
155.353   Final PUD plan approval criteria
   
155.354   Procedure to change approved final plan
   
155.355   Revocation of PUD
Modifications
   
155.370   Purpose
   
155.371   Applicability
   
155.372   Modifications
Land Use Zone Map Amendments
   
155.385   Purpose
   
155.386   Approval process
   
155.387   Map amendment approval criteria
   
155.388   Record of amendment
   
155.389   Transportation planning rule compliance
Code Amendments
   
155.400   General requirements
   
155.401   Code amendment approval criteria
Miscellaneous Permits/Applications
   
155.415   Temporary use permits
   
155.416   Home occupation permit
   
155.417   Temporary occupancy of recreational vehicles and travel trailers
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks
   
155.430   Purpose
   
155.431   General requirements
   
155.432   Approval process
   
155.433   Tentative site plan submission requirements
   
155.434   Tentative site plan approval criteria
   
155.435   Variances authorized
   
155.436   Final site plan submission requirements and approval criteria
   
155.437   Public improvements
   
155.438   Performance guarantee
Exceptions
   
155.450   Exception to code standards
Variances
   
155.465   Limitations
   
155.466   Application submission requirements
   
155.467   Approval process
   
155.468   Approval criteria
   
155.469   Effective date
   
155.470   Expiration
Non-Conforming Uses and Development
   
155.485   Purpose
   
155.486   Non-conforming uses
   
155.487   Non-conforming buildings
   
155.488   Non-conforming lots
Lot and Street Diagrams
   
155.500   Lot types, depth, width
   
155.501   Standard, wedge/triangle, irregular lots
   
155.502   Lot coverage, buildable area
   
155.503   Street types
   
155.504   Vision clearance diagram
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Soil, surface water management, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.001 COMPLIANCE, SCOPE.
   (A)   Fees and costs.
      (1)   Deposits required. All land use applications will require a
deposit, as determined by the current fees and deposits schedule established by
the City Council in effect at the time the application is made. If the
application deposit is insufficient to cover the costs of processing the
application, the applicant will be notified of the deficiency and shall pay and
submit an additional deposit in the identical amount as the initial deposit. If
there is a balance in the application deposit, or any additional deposit
required, when the City Council has taken final action on the application, the
balance will be refunded to the applicant.
      (2)   Expenditures defined; accounting schedule. Expenditures will be
tracked by application. EXPENDITURES are all costs associated with the permit
including, but not limited to, mailing costs, newspaper notification costs,
staff labor, costs associated with services provided by a professional planner,
and appropriate review by the City Engineer, the City Attorney, and the like.
All expenditures will be tallied on a monthly basis and the applicant will be
notified of the balance or deficiency of the application deposit no later than
the end of the calendar monthly following the calendar month for which the
accounting is being made. Any deficiency will be billed and will be paid by the
applicant to the city within 30 calendar days of the date of billing. In any
event, all expenditures incurred by the city associated with the permit will be
fully paid prior to final approval by the City Council.
      (3)   Modification of fees. The schedule of deposits and/or permit fees
may be hereafter modified by resolution duly adopted by the City Council. The
addition of any new activities to the fees and deposits schedule will only be
done by ordinance duly adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Compliance with provisions in the development code. Land and
structures shall be used or developed by construction, reconstruction,
alteration, occupancy, and use only as this development code (or “code” or
“chapter”), or any amendments thereto, permits. A plat may not be recorded and
a building permit may not be issued except in compliance with the provisions of
this code.
   (C)   Obligation by successor. The requirements of this code apply to the
owner(s) of record, persons undertaking the development or the use of land, and
to those persons’ successors in interest.
   (D)   Most restrictive regulations apply. Where there is conflict between
the provisions within this code, or between this code and other rules or
regulations, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standard for
development governs.
   (E)   Variances. The provisions of §§
155.465 through
155.470 shall govern variances.
   (F)   Transfer of development standard prohibited. A lot area, yard, or
other open space, or off-street parking or loading area, which is required by
this code for one use may not serve as a required lot area, yard, or other open
space, or off-street parking or loading area, for another use, except as
otherwise specifically allowed by this code.
(Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 213, passed 11-10-2012)
§ 155.002 CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LAWS.
   Each development and use application, and other procedure initiated under
this code, shall be consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan of the city
as implemented by this code, and with applicable state and federal laws and
regulations. All provisions of this code shall be construed in conformity with
the adopted Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.003 USE OF A DEVELOPMENT.
   Developments shall be used only as lawful uses. A LAWFUL USE OF A
DEVELOPMENT is one that is allowed by this code (including legal non-conforming
uses, subject to §§ 155.485 through 155.488), and is not prohibited by law.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.004 PRE-EXISTING APPROVALS.
   (A)   Pre-existing approvals.
      (1)   Uses, structures, and utilities that are explicitly authorized by,
or that are necessary to carry out the uses or development explicitly
authorized, a final city approval may be established pursuant to such an
approval, and are not required to conform to changes made to this chapter after
the city’s approval was issued.
      (2)   To the extent that modifications to §§
155.370 through
155.372 any application to modify such an approval will be subject to
compliance with §§
155.370 through
155.372, including compliance with current code requirements.
   (B)   Pre-existing applications. The city will evaluate all development
applications based upon the standards and criteria in this code that are in
effect on the date the application is received by the city, so long as the
application is deemed by the city to be completed when first received or is
made complete by the applicant’s submittal of all requested additional
information within 180 days of the day the application is received.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.005 BUILDING PERMIT, CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Building permit. A building permit is required, as defined in §§
151.055 through
151.088.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy required. To ensure completion of a
development or use in the manner approved, a development may not be occupied
and a use may not begin until the city has issued a certificate of occupancy
following completion of the work in substantial conformance to the applicable
land use and building permits.
   (C)   Prior to final completion. Prior to the final completion of all work,
a certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of the structure
conditioned upon further work being completed by a certain date.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.006 OFFICIAL ACTION.
   All officials, departments, and employees (including contractor officials)
of the city vested with authority to issue permits or grant approvals shall
adhere to, and require conformance with, this code, and may not issue any
permit or grant approval for any development or use which violates or fails to
comply with conditions or standards imposed to carry out this code.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE. To end a violation of this code.
   ABATEMENT. The process to end a violation of this code.
   ABUTTING. Contiguous or adjoining, shall include the terms adjacent,
adjoining, and contiguous.
   ACCESS. The area of a street right-of-way where a vehicle may move to and
from the street and an abutting property.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement recorded for the purpose of providing vehicle,
bicycle, and/or pedestrian access from a public street to a parcel across
intervening property under separate ownership from the parcel being provided
access.
   ACCESS POINT. The connection of a driveway at the right-of-way line to the
street.
   ACCESS MANAGEMENT. The control of access for the purpose of improving the
efficiency, safety, or operation of a street for vehicular movement. This
control may include prohibiting, closing, or limiting direct access to a street
from abutting properties by physical barriers (curbs, medians, and the like),
land dedication, or easement.
   ACCESSIBLE. Approachable and useable by people with disabilities. Complies
with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Any subordinate building or portion of a main building,
the use of which is incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to that of the
main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to the main
use of a lot or building.
   ADJACENT. Abutting or located directly across a street right-of-way.
   ADVERSE IMPACT. Negative effect of development that can be measured (for
example, noise, air pollution, vibration, dust, and the like).
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
small livestock farming, dairying, and/or animal husbandry, and the raising of
Christmas trees.
   ALTER. To change any of the supporting members of a building or structure,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   ALLEY. A narrow street through a block primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on another street.
   AND/OR. For the purposes of this chapter, the grammatical use of AND/OR
shall mean any one item or any combination of items in the phrase.
   ARTERIAL. A street of considerable continuity, which is primarily a traffic
artery for intercommunication among large areas. ARTERIAL STREETS in the city
are defined as Canary Road, Clear Lake Road, and Highway 101.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. A BASEMENT shall be counted
as a story for purposes of height measurement where more than one-half of its
height is above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. Provides accommodations plus breakfast on a daily or
weekly basis in an operator- or owner-occupied home that is primarily used for
this purpose. This use is operated as a commercial enterprise, encourages
direct bookings from the public, and is intended to provide a source of income
to the proprietors.
   BERM. A small rise or hill in a landscape.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land or group of lots bounded by intersecting streets.
   BOATHOUSE. A covered or enclosed structure used to store, shelter, or
protect a boat or boats and boating equipment. A structure containing a
dwelling does not qualify as a BOATHOUSE.
   BOLLARD. A post of metal, wood, or masonry that is used to separate or
direct traffic (vehicles, pedestrians, and/or bicycles). BOLLARDS are usually
decorative, and may contain sidewalk or pathway lighting.
   BOND or PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT GUARANTEE. A financial commitment by the
petitioner or subdivider executed by a state licensed surety company in an
amount equal to the full cost of construction and improvements, as required in
this chapter, and conditioned upon the faithful performance thereof.
   BOULEVARD. A street with broad open space areas; typically with planted
medians.
   BUILDING. That which is framed, erected, constructed, or placed to stand
temporarily or permanently on a parcel of land. This definition shall
specifically include a mobile home and accessories thereto. See STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The outline of a building, as measured around its
foundation.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building within which is conducted the principal use
permitted on the lot.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Whenever the term or title “administrative authority,”
“responsible official,” “building official,” or other similar designation is
used herein, it shall be construed to mean the BUILDING OFFICIAL designated by
the appointing authority of this jurisdiction.
   BUILDING SITE. The ground area of a building or buildings, together with all
required open spaces.
   BULKHEAD. A vertical or nearly vertical bank protection structure placed
parallel to the shoreline consisting of concrete, timber, steel, rock, or other
permanent material not readily subject to erosion.
   CAMPGROUNDS. Any lot, tract, or parcel of land under the same ownership
where two or more campsites are located which provide facilities for living in
any manner other than in a permanent building constructed of wood and the like.
   CAPACITY. Maximum holding or serviceability as used for land use, water
flow, transportation, utilities, parks, and other public facilities.
   CARPORT. A stationary structure which may be freestanding or attached, and
open on at least one side consisting of a roof with its supports to shelter
motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, or boats.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Any registered or certified facility, as defined by
O.R.S. 657A.250(5), that provides child care to 16 or fewer children, including
the children of the provider.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Common Council of Dunes City, Oregon, which is the
governing body of the city.
   CLEAR AND OBJECTIVE. Relates to decision criteria and standards that do not
involve substantial discretion or individual judgment in their application.
   CLINIC. Single or multiple offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists,
chiropractors, osteopaths, and other members of the healing arts, including a
dispensary in each such building to handle only merchandise of a nature
customarily prescribed by occupants in connection with their practices.
   CLUB. Any organization, group, or association supported by the members
thereof, the purpose of which is to render a service customarily rendered for
members and their guests. This shall not include any organization, group, or
association of which the chief activity is to render a service customarily
carried on as a business.
   CLUSTER. To situate buildings close together to preserve open space, reduce
the overall land use impact of development, and reduce the amount of roads,
services, and facilities needed to serve a development. The number of living
units in a CLUSTER development shall not exceed, on the average, one living
unit per acre within the development.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Recorder, or the City Recorder’s
designee, including the Code Violation Investigator.
   COLLECTOR. A street used to provide for traffic movement between arterials
and local streets, and which provides direct access to abutting property.
   COMMERCIAL. Land use involving buying/selling of goods or services as the
primary activity.
   COMMON AREA. Land commonly owned to include open space, landscaping, or
recreation facilities (for example, typically owned by homeowners
associations).
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which requires a conditional use permit. See §§
155.325 through
155.330.
   CONIFER. Any of various mostly needle-leaved or scale-leaved, chiefly
evergreen, cone-bearing gymnospermous trees or shrubs such as pines, spruces,
firs, and cedars.
   CORNER RADIUS. The radius of a street corner, as measured around the curb or
edge of pavement.
   COTTAGE. See GUEST HOUSE.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A circular area at the end of a dead-end street.
   DAY NURSERY. Sec FAMILY CHILD CARE FACILITY.
   DEAD-END STREET. A street that allows ingress/egress at only one end.
   DEDICATION. The designation of land by its owner for any public use as shown
on a subdivision plat or deed. The term may also be used for dedications to a
private homeowners’ association.
   DENSITY(IES). A measurement of the number of dwelling units in relationship
to a specified amount of land. As used in this code, DENSITY does not include
land devoted to street rights-of-way. DENSITY is a measurement used generally
for residential uses.
   DEVELOPABLE. Buildable land, as identified by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
Includes both vacant land and land likely to be redeveloped, per O.R.S. 197.295
(1).
   DEVELOPMENT. All improvements on a site, including buildings, other
structures, parking and loading areas, landscaping, paved or graveled areas,
grading, and areas devoted to exterior display, storage, or activities.
DEVELOPMENT includes improved open areas such as plazas and walkways, but does
not include natural geologic forms or landscapes.
   DISCRETIONARY. Describes a permit action or decision that involves
substantial judgment or discretion.
   DISTRICT. The term historically used to mean ZONE. The terms DISTRICT and
ZONE both mean a portion of the incorporated territory of the city within which
certain uses of land and buildings are permitted and certain other uses of land
and buildings are prohibited, or within which certain yards or other open
spaces are required, or within which certain lot areas are established, or
within which certain height limitations are required for buildings, or within
which certain off-street parking space is required, or within which a
combination of such regulations are applied.
   DIVISION OF LAND. The creation of a lot or parcel.
   DOCK/FLOAT. An individual, unenclosed, structure which may either be secured
to the adjacent or underlying land or that floats, that is used for mooring
boats and for similar recreational uses such as sunbathing or as a swimming
platform.
   DRIVEWAY. A strip of land that is not a street but which provides vehicular
access to a lot or parcel from a street.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof which is occupied in whole or in
part as a residence or sleeping place, either permanently or temporarily, by
one or more families, but excluding hotels, motels, mobile homes, camping
vehicles, and travel trailers.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A building consisting of two separate
dwelling units with a common roof and common foundation, designed and used
exclusively for the occupancy of two families living independently of each
other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A living facility that includes provisions for sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation, as required by the Uniform Building Code, for
not more than one family.
   EASEMENT. An interest in land created by express grant, memorialized by
written document, and executed without requisite formalities that clearly shows
an intent to grant to the grantee the right to use and enjoy a certain portion
of a parcel of land for limited purposes, without conveying title to the
grantee.
   EGRESS. The exit of vehicular traffic from properties to a street.
   ELEVATION. Refers to a building face, or scaled drawing of the same, from
grade to roof ridge line.
   ESTABLISHED RESIDENTIAL AREA. See §§
155.065 through
155.080.
   EVIDENCE. Application materials, plans, data, testimony, and factual
information used to demonstrate compliance or non-compliance with a code
standard or criterion.
   FAMILY DAY CARE. See FAMILY CHILD CARE FACILITY.
   FENCE. A barrier intended to prevent escape or intrusion, or to make a
boundary.
   FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD. A road that provides fire apparatus access from
a fire station to a facility or building, or portion thereof. This is a general
term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, public street, private
street, parking lot lane, and access roadway.
   FREEBOARD. The distance between the water surface and the deck of a boarding
float or dock.
   FRONTAGE. The dimension of a property line abutting a public or private
street.
   FRONTAGE STREET. A minor street which parallels an arterial street in order
to provide access to abutting properties, and minimize direct access onto the
arterial.
   FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION. Classification of streets. See STREET.
   GANGWAY. A structure, which provides a pedestrian access between a fixed
pier or shore and a boarding float.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building, or portion of a main building, used
for the parking or temporary storage of vehicles owned or used by occupants of
the main building.
   GRADE. There are two distinct contexts in which GRADE is applicable:
      (1)   Expressing the slope of a line joining two points as a percentage
equal to unit rise divided by unit horizontal distance between the points
multiplied by 100; or
      (2)   An artificial ground level elevation of a building, designated the
BUILDING GRADE or AVERAGE GRADE, calculated as the average of the finished
ground levels at the center of all walls of the building.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The floor area of a building, except areas used
exclusively for the service of the building, such as:
      (1)   Mechanical equipment space and shafts;
      (2)   Elevators;
      (3)   Stairways, escalators, and ramps; and
      (4)   Public restrooms, loading docks, or ramps.
   GUEST HOUSE. A subordinate residential structure that is accessory to, and
dependent on, an existing primary dwelling located on the same lot or parcel as
the GUEST HOUSE. A GUEST HOUSE shall be occupied solely by members of the
family residing in the primary dwelling, their non-paying guests, or by non-
paying employees who work on the premises.
   HAMMERHEAD TURNAROUND. A “T” or “L” shaped dead-end street that allows for
vehicles to turn around at the end of a dead end street.
   HIGHWAY. See STREET.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
family residing on the premises. See §§
155.415 through
155.417.
   INFILL. The development of vacant, bypassed lands located in an area that is
mainly developed.
   INGRESS. The entrance of vehicular traffic to abutting properties from a
street.
   KITCHEN.
      (1)   An area within a structure that is used or designed to be used for
the preparation or cooking of food, and that contains one or both of the
following:
         (a)   Cooking appliances or rough in facilities including, but not
limited to: ovens, convection ovens, stoves, stove tops, built-in grills, or
microwave ovens, or similar appliances, 240 volt electrical outlets or any gas
lines; or
         (b)   A sink less than 18 inches in depth with a waste line drain one
and one-half inches or greater in diameter and a refrigerator exceeding five
cubic feet in capacity or space, opening with an electrical outlet that may
reasonably be used for a refrigerator exceeding five cubic feet in capacity.
      (2)   An approved KITCHEN may have more than one sink, stove, oven, or
refrigerator in the same room.
   LAND DIVISION. The process of dividing land to create parcels or lots.
   LAND USE. The main activity that occurs on a piece of land, or the structure
in which the activity occurs (for example, residential, commercial, mixed use,
industrial, open space, recreation, street rights-of-way, vacant, and the
like).
   LAND USE ZONE. See §§
155.050 through
155.053.
   LANDING. A level part of a staircase as at the end of a flight of stairs.
   LANDSCAPING. Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs,
plants, vegetative ground cover, or turf grasses, and may include structural
features such as walkways, fences, benches, plazas, works of art, reflective
pools, fountains, or the like. LANDSCAPING also includes irrigation systems,
mulches, topsoil, and re-vegetation, or the preservation, protection, and
replacement of existing trees.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. A legislative action or decision is the making of law,
as opposed to the application of existing law to a particular use (for example,
adoption of, or amendment to, the Comprehensive Plan or development
regulation).
   LIVESTOCK. Domestic animal types customarily raised or kept on farms.
   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT (LID). A small public district formed for the
purpose of carrying out local improvements (paving of streets, construction of
storm sewers, development of a park, and the like). Property owners within the
LID are assessed for the cost of the improvements in accordance with O.R.S.
223.387 through 223.485.
   LOT. A single unit of land that is created by a subdivision or partition of
land. For purposes of the city code, the terms LOT and PARCEL may be used
interchangeably and are used to describe a lawfully established unit of land
pursuant to O.R.S. 92.192.
      (1)   BUTT LOT. A lot, the lot sideline of which abuts the rear lot line
of two or more adjoining lots.
      (2)   CORNER LOT. A lot or parcel, at least two adjacent sides of which
abuts streets other than alleys, provided the angle of intersection of the
adjacent streets does not exceed 135 degrees.
      (3)   FLAG LOT. A lot or parcel, which has access to a road, street, or
easement, by means of a narrow strip of lot or easement. See §
155.504.
      (4)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot or development site, other than a corner lot,
with frontage only on one street.
      (5)   KEY LOT. A lot or parcel, the rear line of which abuts the lot
sideline of two or more adjoining lots.
      (6)   PANHANDLE LOT. See FLAG LOT.
   LOT AREA. The total surface area (measured horizontally) within the lot
lines of a lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot covered by impervious surfaces, and as
allowed by the applicable land use zone standards found in §§
155.071 and
155.101.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT LINE.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. The lot line abutting a street. For corner lots,
the FRONT LINE shall be that with the narrowest street frontage, and for double
frontage lots the FRONT LINE shall be the lot front line having frontage on a
street, which is so designated by the subdivider and approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line which is opposite and most distant from
the front lot line. In the case of a triangular lot, the REAR LOT LINE for
building purposes shall be assumed to be a line ten feet in length within the
lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from, the front lot line.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line, which is not a FRONT or REAR LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A relocation or elimination of all or a portion of the
common property line between abutting properties that does not create an
additional lot or parcel. This development code also defines the consolidation
of lots (as in, resulting in fewer lots) as a LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. See PROPERTY
LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
   MAJOR COLLECTOR. To serve traffic from local roads and minor collectors to
the arterial system. Individual accesses are allowed but minimized to protect
system capacity and traffic safety. Within the city, Canary Road and Clear Lake
Road, both county facilities, are considered MAJOR COLLECTORS.
   MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK. Any place where four or more manufactured
dwellings, as defined in O.R.S. 446.003, are located within 500 feet of one
another on a lot, tract, or parcel of land under the same ownership, the
primary purpose of which is to rent or lease space or keep space for rent or
lease to any person for a charge or fee paid, or to be paid, for the rental or
lease or use of facilities, or to offer space free in connection with securing
the trade or patronage of such person. MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK does not
include a lot or lots located within a subdivision being rented or leased for
occupancy by no more than one manufactured dwelling per lot if the subdivision
was approved by the local government unit having jurisdiction under an
ordinance adopted pursuant to O.R.S. 92.010 through 92.190.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for
residential purposes and that was constructed in accordance with federal
manufactured housing construction and safety standards and regulations in
effect at the time of construction.
(O.R.S. 446.003)
   MINISTERIAL DECISION. A routine governmental action or decision where there
are clear and objective approval criteria. The issuance of a building permit is
such an action.
   MINOR COLLECTOR. To provide access to abutting properties and to serve local
access needs of neighborhoods, including limited through traffic. New
development that generates a significant volume of traffic will be discouraged
from locating on MINOR COLLECTORS that serve residential areas. The majority of
these roads are city-owned facilities. Pacific Avenue and Lake Boulevard are
county facilities. MINOR COLLECTORS identified in the city include: Huckleberry
Lane, Wright Road, a portion of Collins Loop, Peninsula Road, Salal Street, a
portion of Cloud Nine Road, Erhart Road, Woodland Lane, Hilltop Drive, a
portion of Parkway Drive, South Cove Drive, Brentwood Court, Ka-Teech Drive,
and Kiechle Arm Road.
   MITIGATION. Avoidance, rectification, repair, or compensation for negative
impacts, which result from other actions (for example, improvements to a street
may be required to mitigate for transportation impacts resulting from
development).
   MOTEL. A combination or group of two or more detached or semi-detached
permanent dwellings or dwelling units occupying a building site in one
ownership, owned and used to furnish transient living accommodations.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building in which three or more residential units
each have space for eating, living, and sleeping, and permanent provisions for
cooking and sanitation.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING. Housing that provides for three or more separate
dwelling units on a single legal lot and sharing common walls, floors,
ceilings, courtyard playground, parking area, or other communal amenities.
   NATURAL HAZARD. Natural areas that can cause dangerous or difficult
development situations. For example, NATURAL HAZARD areas include steep slopes,
unstable soils and landslides, flood areas.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. A geographic area lived in by neighbors and usually having
distinguishing character.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land which lawfully existed as a
lot in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws, but which, because
of the application of a subsequent zoning ordinance, no longer conforms to the
lot dimension requirements for the zoning district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A structure or portion thereof which was lawfully established in
compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws, but which, because of the
application of a subsequent zoning ordinance, no longer conforms to the
setback, height, maximum lot coverage, or other building development
requirements of this chapter; or
      (2)   Is clearly designed and intended for uses other than any use
permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Use of a structure or land, or structure and land in
combination, which was lawfully established in compliance with all applicable
ordinance and laws, but which, because of the application of a subsequent
zoning ordinance, no longer conforms to the use requirements for the zone in
which it is located.
   NON-NATIVE/INVASIVE PLANTS. See current Oregon State University Extension
Service Bulletin for your specific area.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. All off-street areas designed, used, required, or
intended use for the parking of motor vehicles. OFF-STREET PARKING areas shall
conform to the requirements of §
155.216.
   ON-STREET PARKING. Parking in the street right-of-way, typically in parking
lanes or bays. Parking may be “parallel” or “angled” in relation to the edge of
the right-of-way or curb.
   OPEN SPACE (COMMON/PRIVATE/ACTIVE/PASSIVE). Land within a development, which
has been dedicated in common to the ownership within the development or to the
public specifically for the purpose of providing places for recreation,
conservation, or other OPEN SPACE uses.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER (OHW). The line on a bank or shore to which the high
water ordinarily rises annually. For Siltcoos Lake, this is to be taken as 12
feet above mean sea level. For Woahink Lake, this is to be taken as 39.8 feet
above mean sea level.
   ORDINARY LOW WATER (OLW). The line on a bank or shore to which the low water
ordinarily recedes annually. For Siltcoos Lake, this is to be taken as six feet
above mean sea level.
   ORIENTATION. To cause to face toward a particular point of reference (for
example, “A building oriented to the street”).
   OVERLAY ZONE. Provides regulations that address specific subjects that may
be applicable in more than one land use zone.
   OWNER. An individual, association, partnership, trust, or corporation having
legal or equitable title to land, other than legal title held for purpose of
security only.
   PARCEL. A single unit of land that is created by a partitioning of land
(O.R.S. 92.010(6)). For purposes of zoning requirements, the terms LOT and
PARCEL may be used interchangeably and are used to describe a unit of land that
meets or exceeds minimum requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to
provide yards and other open spaces. See LOT.
   PARENT ZONE. The primary zone for any property. Residential and Community
Commercial are the only two PARENT ZONES in the city.
   PARKING AREA, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public parking area or a building,
exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns, and office and work areas, for the
temporary parking or storage of one automobile.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. Privately or publicly owned property, other than
streets and alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated, or
otherwise identified for use by the tenants, employees, or owners of the
property which is not open for use by the general public.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. Privately or publicly owned property, other than
streets or alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated, or
otherwise identified for use by the general public, either free or for
remuneration. PUBLIC PARKING AREAS may include parking lots for retail
customers, patrons, and/or clients.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently maintained space with proper access for one
standard-size automobile.
   PARKING. The area used for leaving motor vehicles for a temporary time.
   PARTITION/PARTITION LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into not more
than three parcels within a calendar year when such area or tract of land
exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under single ownership at the
beginning of such year.
(O.R.S. 92.010(9))
   PATHWAY/WALKWAY/ACCESS WAY. A thoroughfare that satisfies the requirement
for access ways in the Transportation Planning Rule of O.A.R. 660-012-045.
   PIER. A non-floating fixed platform structure usually extending out over the
water from the shore to which gangways are usually attached. Any floating
access structure used for pedestrian access to any other structure in or over
the shorelands shall be considered a PIER.
   PILE. A slender wood or steel member driven into the ground to maintain
position and location of floats, and to resist applied lateral forces
(collectively, PILING).
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. Church, synagogue, mosque, temple, chapel, meeting house,
or other religious facility together with its accessory buildings and uses,
where persons regularly assemble for worship, and which building, together with
its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious
body organized to sustain public worship.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). See §§
155.345 through
155.355.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission, as defined in Chapter 32.
   PLANNING OFFICIAL. The City Recorder, or the City Recorder’s designee.
   PLANTER STRIP, TREE CUTOUT. A landscape area for street trees and other
plantings within the public right-of-way, usually between the street and a
sidewalk.
   PLAT. A diagram, drawing, or replat containing all the descriptions,
locations, specifications, dedications, provisions, and other information
required by this chapter.
   PLAZA. A public square or extra-wide sidewalk (for example, as on a street
corner) that allows for special events, outdoor seating, sidewalk sales, and
similar pedestrian activity.
   PREMISES. A lot including its buildings.
   PRIMARY. The largest or most substantial element on the property, as in
primary use, residence, entrance, and the like. All other similar elements are
secondary in size or importance.
   PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT. A relocation or elimination of all or a portion of
the common property line between abutting properties that does not create an
additional lot or parcel. This development code also defines the consolidation
of lots (that is, resulting in fewer lots) as a lot line adjustment. See also
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL. An action or decision that requires substantial discretion
or judgment by the Planning Commission in applying the standards or criteria of
this code, and may include a public hearing.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motor power, that is
designed for human occupancy, and to be used temporarily for recreational,
seasonal, or emergency purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A plot of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreational or vacation purposes.
   RESERVE STRIP. A narrow area of land at the end or side of a street used to
control access to the street or to preserve land for future widening or
extension.
   RESIDENCE. Same as DWELLING.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES AND FACILITIES. See §
155.077.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. A residential care, residential training, or
residential treatment
facility, as those terms are defined in O.R.S. 443.400, licensed under O.R.S.
443.400 through 443.460, or licensed under O.R.S. 418.205 through 418.327 by
the Department of Human Services that provides residential care alone or in
conjunction with treatment or training, or a combination thereof, for six to 15
individuals who need not be related.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT/TRAINING HOME. A residential treatment or training, or
adult foster home, as those terms are defined in O.R.S. 443.400, licensed by or
under the authority of the Department of Human Services, under O.R.S. 443.400
through 443.825, or a residential facility registered under O.R.S. 443.480
through 443.500, or an adult foster home licensed under O.R.S. 443.705 through
443.825, that provides residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment
or training, or a combination thereof, for five or fewer individuals who need
not be related.
   RIDING ACADEMY. Any building or portion of property upon which the skill and
subject of horsemanship is taught for remuneration, or made available for hire
or remuneration for the teaching or training in the skill and subject of
horsemanship. Exercise rings and show-rings for riding, breaking, roping, or
showmanship, whether enclosed in a building, lot, or parcel of land by a human-
made barrier for public use and remuneration, shall be considered an accessory
use of the premises for a RIDING ACADEMY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area between property lines, or as defined in an easement
designated for public use.
   RIPARIAN. Of, or pertaining to, or situated on, the edge of the bank of a
river or other body of water.
   RIPARIAN AREA. The area adjacent to a river, lake, or stream, consisting of
the area of transition from an aquatic ecosystem to a terrestrial ecosystem.
See also §
155.167.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. A state-wide Planning Goal 5 resource that includes the
water areas, fish habitat, adjacent riparian areas, and wetlands within the
riparian area boundary. See also §
155.167.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR BOUNDARY. A specified distance upland from the “top of
bank.”
   ROAD/ROADWAY. See STREET.
   SCHOOL. Public or private educational, K-12, facilities.
   SENSITIVE LANDS. Wetlands, significant trees, steep slopes, floodplains, and
other natural resource areas designated for protection or conservation by the
Comprehensive Plan.
   SERVICE STATION. A place or station selling motor fuel or oil for motor
vehicles and/or servicing batteries, furnishing repair and service.
   SETBACK. The distance from the portion of a structure located nearest to the
respective property line, riparian corridor boundary, wetland boundary, or
shorelands boundary.
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. A driveway giving access to two, three, or four parcels.
   SHORELAND. See SHORELAND AREA.
   SHORELAND AREA. For purposes of construction near the shorelines of Woahink
Lake, Little Woahink Lake, Siltcoos Lake, and Siltcoos River, the SHORELAND
AREA is the section of land within 50 feet measured horizontally inland from
the ordinary high water (OHW) line of Woahink and Siltcoos Lakes and Siltcoos
River, and bounded by tax lot sidelines.
   SHORELAND ZONE. See SHORELAND AREA.
   SHORELAND STRUCTURE. Any shoreland allowed construction. This includes any
structure in or on shorelands, or any structure with any contact or presence
over shorelands and extensions into water beyond ordinary low water line (OLW).
This includes, but is not limited to, docks, floats, piers, boathouses, and
wharfs.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian walkway with permanent surfacing.
   SIGN. Any fabricated sign for use outdoors, including its structure,
consisting of any letter, figure, character, mark, point, plane, design,
poster, picture, stroke, stripe, line, trademark, reading matter, or
illuminating device which is constructed, attached, erected, fastened, or
manufactured in any manner whatsoever to attract the public in any manner for
recognized purposes to any place, subject, person, firm, corporation, public
performance, article, machine, or merchandise display. However, the term SIGN
does not include any display of official court or public notices, nor does it
include the flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, governmental unit, school,
or religious group. See §§
155.079 and
155.102.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter formed by
lines joined at right angles which enclose the extreme limits of such sign, and
which in no case passes through or between any adjacent elements of the same.
Such perimeter does not include any structural elements lying outside and below
the limits of such sign, and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A freestanding sign that is detached from a building,
generally having a low profile where the base of the sign is on the ground or
has little or no space between the ground and the sign, and having a structure
constructed of masonry, wood, or materials similar in appearance.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which advertises only the activities conducted on,
or the sale or lease of, the property on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. A sign which advertises goods, products, or
services which are not sold, manufactured, or distributed on or from the
premises on which the sign is located, or facilities not located on the
premises on which the sign is located, but the term does not include an ON-
PREMISES SIGN.
   SITE. A property (or group of adjacent parcels or lots under the same
ownership) that is subject to a permit application under this code.
   SITE PLAN. A detailed drawing that shows how a site will be developed. SITE
PLANS must show the boundaries of a parcel of land, the topography, important
landscape elements that impact the design, and location of all planned and
anticipated major improvements. The SITE PLAN must also show the locations of
all existing, proposed, and future buildings, access roads and driveways,
stormwater facilities, septic systems and drainfields, wells, water storage
structures, and utility connections. It must also include a directional
orientation symbol, such as a north-pointing arrow.
   SLOPE. The vertical inclination of a line joining two points expressed as a
percentage, equal to unit rise divided by unit horizontal distance between the
points multiplied by 100.
   STANDARDS AND CRITERIA. STANDARDS are code requirements. CRITERIA are the
elements required to comply with a particular standard.
   STORMWATER FACILITY. All of the structures and facilities that are designed
for the collection conveyance, storage, treatment, and disposal of stormwater
runoff and surface water, including both human-made and natural drainage
systems.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
STORY shall be the portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling above. See BASEMENT.
   STREAMS, CLASS I. Waters which are valuable for domestic use, are important
for angling or other recreation, and/or are used by significant numbers of fish
for spawning, rearing, or migration routes. STREAM flows may be either
perennial or intermittent during parts of the year.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare, avenue, road, roadway, highway,
boulevard, parkway, drive, lane, court, cul-de-sac, or easement, providing for
ingress and egress from property abutting thereon. See §§
155.500 through
155.504 for street diagrams.
      (1)   ALLEY. A narrow street through a block primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on another
street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. A continuous street giving interconnection to a large
area through collector streets (Canary Road, Clear Lake Road, and Highway 101).
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street used to provide for traffic movement
between arterials and local streets, and which provides direct access to
abutting property.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A circular area at the end of a dead-end street.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street that allows ingress and egress at one end
only.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A local road intended to provide direct property
access and not intended
to serve through traffic.
   STREET CONNECTIVITY. The number of street connections within a specific
geographic area. Higher levels of connectivity provide for more direct
transportation routes and better dispersion of traffic, resulting in less
traffic on individual streets and potentially slower speeds through
neighborhoods.
   STREET STUB. A temporary street ending, that is, where the street will be
extended through adjacent property in the future, as those properties develop.
Not a permanent street-end or dead-end street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. See ALTER.
   STRUCTURE. That which is framed, erected, constructed, or placed to stand
temporarily or permanently on a parcel of land. Any paths or walks not more
than six inches above the ground upon which they rest are not part of this
definition. See also BUILDING.
   SUBDIVIDE LAND. To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots
within a calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or
contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the beginning of such
year.
   SUBDIVISION. Either an act of subdividing land or an area or tract of land
subdivided.
   SURVEY. A land survey conducted by a land surveyor licensed by the state.
   SWALE. A type of stormwater facility. Usually a broad, shallow depression
with plants that filter and process contaminants.
   TEMPORARY EASEMENT. Any easement that does not confer upon the grantee a
permanent right to use the grantor’s property. For purposes of this chapter, a
TEMPORARY EASEMENT will not be considered an easement unless specifically
accepted by the City Council.
   TENTATIVE PLAN. A preliminary drawing or diagram concerning a partition or
subdivision.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSTRAINT. Where existing slopes prevent conformance with a
code standard.
   TOURIST PARK. All campgrounds, picnic areas, travel trailer parks, and all
other establishments rented or kept for rent to any person for a charge or fee
paid, or to be paid, for the rental or use of the facilities, or offered free
in connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person or for
indirect benefit to the owner in connection with a related business.
   TOWNHOUSE. See MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING.
   TRACT, PRIVATE/PUBLIC. A piece of land set aside in a separate area for
dedication to the public, a homeowners’ association, or other entity (for
example, open space, recreation facilities, sensitive lands, and the like).
   TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES. The physical improvements used to move people and
goods from one place to another (for example, streets, sidewalks, pathways,
bike lanes, airports, transit stations and bus stops, and the like).
   TRIPLEX. A building with three attached housing units on one lot or parcel.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed, or
intended, or for which either land or building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement granted by one parcel of land (grantor) in
favor of a second parcel of land (grantee) which allows the grantee the right
to install upon the grantor’s parcel, above or below ground or both, sewer
lines, electrical lines, cable television lines, water lines, and telephone
lines which will serve the grantee’s parcel of land.
   VACATE PLAT/STREET. To abandon a subdivision or street right-of-way. For
example, VACATION of a public right-of-way that is not needed or cannot be used
for a street or other public purpose. A plat may be vacated, returning the
property to an undivided condition.
   VARIANCE. A quasi-judicial decision (Type III) to lessen or otherwise modify
the requirements of this code. See §§
155.465 through
155.470.
   VISION CLEARANCE. A triangular area at the street or highway corner lot, or
the intersection of an alley and street corner lot. The right-of-way lines and
a line define the space across the corner, the ends of which lie on the right-
of-way lines a specified length from the corner. See §
155.201.
   WALL. See FENCE.
   WATER-DEPENDENT. A use or activity which can be carried out only on, in, or
adjacent to water
areas because the use requires access to the water body for water-borne
transportation, recreation, energy production, or source of water.
   WATER-RELATED. Uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a water
body, but which provide goods or services that are directly associated with
water-dependent land or waterway use, and which, if not located adjacent to
water, would result in a public loss of quality in the goods or services
offered. Except as necessary for water-dependent or water-related uses or
facilities, residences, parking lots, spoil and dump sites, roads and highways,
restaurants, businesses, and factories are not generally considered dependent
on or related to water location needs.
   WET BAR. A single sink with a waste drain line no greater than one and one-
half inches in diameter and an under counter refrigerator no greater than five
cubic feet in size with cabinets and/or counter top area not exceeding six
lineal feet. A WET BAR shall not include a refrigerator in excess of five cubic
feet in size or a kitchen sink greater than two square feet in size, or a gas
or electric range, stove top, and/or oven (but may include a microwave oven).
   WETLAND. Land areas where water is the dominant factor determining the
nature of soil development and the types of plant and animal communities living
at the soil surface. They are defined more specifically by the Federal Clean
Water Act (§ 404) and O.A.R. 141-085-0510(101)). For more information, contact
the State Division Department of State Lands.
   WHARF. The same structure as a PIER, except generally located parallel
relative to the shoreline.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. Includes cell towers, antennas, monopoles,
and related facilities used for radio signal transmission and receiving.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard between the front line of a building (exclusive of
steps) and the front property line.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the rear line of
the building (exclusive of steps, porches, and accessory buildings) and the
rear line of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the sidewall line of the building and the sideline of the lot.
   ZONE. Historically referred to as a DISTRICT, ZONE means: A portion of the
incorporated territory of the city within which certain uses of land and
buildings are permitted and certain other uses of land and buildings are
prohibited, or within which certain yards or other open spaces are required, or
within which certain lot areas are established, or within which certain height
limitations are required for buildings, or within which certain off-street
parking space is required, or within which a combination of such regulations
are applied.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Fire apparatus access roads, see I.F.C. 2015, Chapter 2, § 202
ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.020 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter, and
the city code of ordinances, shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted
for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.021 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation may erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or
maintain or use any building or structure or building service equipment, or
divide or transfer any land in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.022 OFFICIAL ACTION.
   All officials, departments, and employees of the city vested with authority
to issue permits, certificates, or licenses shall adhere to and require
conformance with all use requirements.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.023 AUTHORITY.
   Any condition caused, maintained, or allowed to exist in violation of any
provisions of this chapter, or conditions attached to ordinances or orders
creating subdivisions or planned unit developments (PUDs), or other orders, may
be abated by the city pursuant to the procedures set forth herein, except those
whereany other individual or body has been expressly deemed responsible for
such enforcement activity.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.024 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer has the authority to make the
determination in the first instance whether a violation of this chapter code
provisions has occurred or exists, and has the authority to take appropriate
action to gain compliance with the provisions of this code. The Code
Enforcement Officer further has the authority to issue notices of violation,
findings, and orders, the power to inspect public and private property pursuant
to this chapter, and the power to utilize the administrative remedies available
under this code.
   (B)   The City Recorder, with approval of the City Council, may hire
individuals with the skills, knowledge, and expertise to serve as Code
Violation Investigators. The Code Violation Investigator will conduct
investigations or inspections, or accompany the Code Enforcement Officer on any
investigations or inspections, conducted pursuant to this chapter, and will
have the same power as the Code Enforcement Officer to inspect public and
private property. The Code Violation Inspector will report and make
recommendation to the Code Enforcement Officer to aid the Code Enforcement
Officer in making a determination as to whether a violation of this code has
occurred or exists.
   (C)   The City Code Enforcement Officer is responsible for the enforcement
of all provisions of this chapter, except those where any other individual or
body has been expressly deemed responsible for such enforcement activity.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.025 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT, ABATE; EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Entrance on property with permission of the person in charge. With the
permission of the person in charge of the property, the Code Enforcement
Officer and/or a Code Violation Investigator is authorized to enter upon any
properly or premises at a reasonable time in order to ascertain if a chapter
code violation exists on the property, and to make any investigations,
examinations, and surveys as may be necessary in the performance of his or her
enforcement duties. This may include, but is not limited to, taking of
photographs, taking measurements, or collecting samples of other physical
evidence. With the permission of the person in charge, the Code Enforcement
Officer is further authorized to enter onto property to abate a chapter code
violation in accordance with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Entrance on property without permission of person in charge. In the
event that the Code Enforcement Officer cannot gain permission from the person
in charge to enter onto property when such entry is sought pursuant to this
section, the Code Enforcement Officer may seek entry through any legal means
including, without limitation, making application to any court of competent
jurisdiction for issuance of a warrant. The warrant application shall identify
the premises upon which entry is sought, the purpose for which entry is
desired, and the facts giving rise to the belief that a condition which is a
violation of this code exists on such premises, and if applicable any abatement
actions that will be taken.
   (C)   Emergency. In cases where a violation of this chapter unmistakably
exists and the violation imminently endangers human life or property, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall immediately notify the appropriate county, state, or
federal office having oversight and jurisdiction over the subject matter of the
violation, and the Code Enforcement Officer may proceed summarily to abate the
violation.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.026 RECOVERY OF ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   The City Council finds there is a need to recover costs incurred by the city
in its code enforcement efforts. These costs shall be referred to as
administrative costs, and will include time spent by city personnel re-
inspecting properties throughout the city in an effort to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, and costs incurred in the investigation,
inspection, re-inspection, recording of notices, title search, and any other
costs associated with violations specified on any notice.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.027 WRITTEN COMPLAINT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person may submit to the Code Enforcement Officer a signed,
written complaint alleging that a violation of this chapter has occurred. The
complaint must contain: the contact information, including name, address,
telephone number, and email address, if any, of the complainant; a full
description of the alleged violation; and the city code section which has
allegedly been violated. If the Code Enforcement Officer finds the complaint to
be credible, the Code Enforcement Officer may investigate the complaint.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer may undertake investigations of possible
code violations in the absence of a written complaint if a potential code
violation is reported by an employee or contractor for the city, or the state
or federal governments.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.028 COMPLAINANT’S RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event the Code Enforcement Officer finds a complaint is not
credible, the complainant has the right to appeal that decision to the City
Council by submitting written notice of appeal, together with appeal
administration fees, within ten calendar days of the date of notification of
finding that the complaint is not credible. Upon receipt of a timely filed
notice of appeal, the matter will be placed on the agenda for consideration at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. The Council’s decision on
appeal shall be final.
   (B)   The City Council will, by resolution, set the amount to be collected
for filing of a notice of appeal. All appeal administration fees shall be paid
at the time of filing of the notice of appeal. In the event of a finding by the
City Council in favor of the complainant, the city will assume all costs
associated with processing the appeal. In the event the finding of the City
Council upholds the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer, the complainant
will reimburse the city for any and all costs associated with processing the
appeal. Collection of such fees shall be made in the same manner as provided in
§
155.031.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.029 CODE VIOLATIONS.
   In the event of a finding of a violation of this chapter, the Code
Enforcement Officer may take the following actions:
   (A)   Seek voluntary compliance to abate the violation without any further
action taken;
   (B)   Summarily abate the violation if the violation is an immediate threat
to public health and safety, or endangers property;
   (C)   Impose administrative costs against the person found to be responsible
for the violation;
   (D)   Issue a notice of violation;
   (E)   Issue a cease and desist, or stop work, order;
   (F)   Withhold building permits on any unsold lots in a subdivision which
the Code Enforcement Officer finds does not comply with:
      (1)   The provisions contained in this chapter; or
      (2)   Any conditions attached to the order which created the subdivision.
   (G)   Abate;
   (H)   Fine;
   (I)   Execute a stipulation agreement; and/or
   (J)   Commence civil proceedings.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.030 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a chapter
violation exists, the Code Enforcement Officer shall serve a notice of
violation on the property owner and the person responsible. The notice of
violation will be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. Service by certified mail shall be deemed complete upon
mailing. If the property owner is unknown or absent and has no known
representative upon whom notice can be served, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall post a copy of the notice of violation on the property.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall contain:
         (a)   Findings of fact with corresponding conclusions of law, which
describe the code violation(s) and the corresponding code section(s), and/or
rule(s), which have been violated;
         (b)   Order for corrective action, which describes specifically how
each violation must be corrected and the timeframes within which the
corrections are required to be made. The order for corrective action shall
include a statement that if the violation is not appealed or corrected within
20 days of the date of service of the notice of violation, the city will abate
or correct the violation and charge the costs of abatement or correction to the
person responsible. The order for corrective action shall also include a
statement that failure to correct or abate the code violation may result in the
imposition of a fine;
         (c)   A description of the additional administrative and judicial
enforcement actions that could be pursued by the Code Enforcement Officer if
the violations are not satisfactorily corrected; or
         (d)   A statement that the person responsible or the property owner
may appeal the order for corrective action to the City Council by delivering a
written request for review to the City Recorder within ten calendar days after
the date of issuance of the notice of violation.
      (3)   If the person responsible or the property owner fails to timely
file a written request for review, the Code Enforcement Officer’s finding that
a violation has occurred shall be final.
   (B)   An error in the name or address of the property owner or person
responsible will not void the
notice of violation.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a timely filed written request for review, the matter
will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. If the Council determines that a code violation exists,
the property owner or person responsible shall abate or correct the code
violation within five days of the date of the Council’s decision, unless the
Council allows a longer time for abatement or correction. The Council’s
decision on the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.031 ABATEMENT, CORRECTION; ASSESSMENT OF COST; LIEN.
   (A)   If the violation has not been abated or corrected by the property
owner or person responsible within the required timeframe, the Code Enforcement
Officer may abate or correct the violation, provided that the estimated cost of
the abatement or correction does not exceed $2,000. If the estimated cost of
the abatement or correction exceeds $2,000, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
seek approval of the expenditure of said amounts from the City Council at the
City Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting. In addition to abating or
correcting the violation, the Code Enforcement Officer may assess a penalty
against the person responsible, and recover the costs of the abatement from the
person responsible.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep a record of the abatement or
correction costs incurred by the city, including administrative expenses and
costs of appeal, and report all work done for which assessments are to be made,
stating and certifying the description of the real property, lots, or parcels
involved and the amount assessable to each.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall forward a notice of costs to the
property owner and person responsible stating:
      (1)   The total cost of the abatement or correction;
      (2)   The amount of any penalty for violation of the code;
      (3)   The costs and any penalties will be assessed to and become a lien
against the real property if not paid within 30 days of the date of the notice;
and
      (4)   The amount of costs and penalties may be appealed to the City
Council by submitting a written notice of appeal to the City Recorder within
ten calendar days of the date of the notice.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a timely filed written request for review, the matter
will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. The Council’s decision on the appeal shall be final.
   (E)   Unless prior arrangements have been made with the City Recorder, if
the costs of abatement or correction and any penalties assessed are not paid
within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice of costs, the amount owed
will be entered into the docket of city liens and will constitute a lien on the
property where the violation took place.
   (F)   The lien may be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced, and will bear interest at a legal rate of interest.
Interest will begin to run on the date of entry in the lien docket.
   (G)   An error in the name or address of the property owner or person
responsible for a failure to receive the notice of costs will not void the
assessment, and it will remain a valid lien on the property.
   (H)   Abatement or correction of a code violation is not a penalty, but is
an additional remedy. Imposition of a penalty for a code violation does not
relieve the person responsible of the duty to abate or correct the violation.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.032 FINE ASSESSMENT, LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   In all cases where the same violation is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of the city code, the Code Enforcement
Officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense.
      (2)   Provided that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (B)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of the city code, and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   No provisions of the city code designating the duties of the Code
Enforcement Officer, or designated Code Enforcement Officer, shall be so
construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty
provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of the City
Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall forward a notice of imposition of
penalty to the property owner and person responsible, stating:
      (1)   The amount of any penalty for violation of the city code;
      (2)   The penalty shall be assessed to and become a lien against the real
property if not paid within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice; and
      (3)   The penalty may be appealed to the City Council by submitting a
written notice of appeal to the City Recorder within ten calendar days of the
date of the notice and paying any fees associated with the filing of notice of
appeal.
   (E)   (1)   Upon receipt of a timely filed written request for review, the
matter will be placed on the agenda for consideration at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   The Council’s decision on the appeal shall be final.
   (F)   Unless prior arrangements have been made with the City Recorder, if
the penalties assessed are not paid within 30 calendar days of the date of the
notice of imposition of penalty, the amount owed will be entered into the
docket of city liens and will constitute a lien on the property where the
violation took place.
   (G)   The lien may be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements are enforced and will bear interest at a legal rate of interest.
Interest will begin to run on the date of entry in the lien docket.
   (H)   An error in the name or address of the property owner or person
responsible for a failure to receive the notice of imposition of penalty will
not void the imposition and it will remain a valid lien on the property.
   (I)   (1)   Abatement or correction of a code violation is not a penalty,
but is an additional remedy.
      (2)   Imposition of a penalty for a code violation does not relieve the
person responsible of the duty to abate or correct the violation.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.033 PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF CITY PERMITS.
   For properties where a notice of violation has been issued, the city may
withhold permits for repair, construction, and/or alteration, other than those
necessary to achieve compliance with the provisions of this code, on the
affected property until a notice of compliance has been issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.034 CEASE AND DESIST, STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   Cease and desist orders, also known as stop work orders, may be issued
when the Code Enforcement Officer has probable cause that an activity regulated
by this chapter is being, or has been, conducted without a permit or in
violation of this chapter. When activity has been stopped by a cease and desist
order, it shall not be resumed until the reason for the activity stoppage has
been completely satisfied, any administrative fees paid, and the cease and
desist order lifted.
   (B)   The cease and desist order may be appealed to the City Council by
submitting a written notice of appeal to the City Recorder within ten calendar
days of the date of the issuance of the cease and desist order, and paying fees
associated with the filing of notice of appeal. The City Council may impose a
fee by adopted resolution for the filing of a notice of appeal of the Code
Enforcement Officer’s decision.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the filing of a notice of appeal of Code Enforcement
Officer’s decision and payment of the filing fee therefor, the city shall
schedule a hearing on the cease and desist order at the earliest practicable
date, but not more than seven days after the effectiveness of any required
notice. At the discretion of the city, such hearing may be:
         (a)   Part of a hearing on revocation of the underlying development
approval; and/or
         (b)   To determine whether a violation has occurred, the City Council
shall hold this hearing and shall make written findings as to the violation
within seven days.
      (2)   Upon a finding of no violation, the City Council shall direct the
Code Enforcement Officer to issue a resume work order. Upon a finding that a
violation has occurred, the cease and desist order shall continue to be
effective until the violating party furnishes sufficient proof to the Code
Enforcement Officer that the violation has been abated. The decision of the
City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.035 STIPULATION AGREEMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer, with the approval of the City Council, and a
person alleged to have violated provisions of this code may voluntarily enter
into a stipulation agreement whereby the parties to the agreement: Identify
conditions on the property that require corrective action; agree on the
corrective actions that must be performed by the person; agree on the
timeframes in which the corrective actions must be completed; and any other
necessary information. If the person fails to fulfill the requirements of the
agreement, the Code Enforcement Officer may seek compliance with the terms of
the agreement through a court of competent jurisdiction, or pursue other
enforcement action allowed by this code.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.036 COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL COURT ACTION.
   In the event of a violation, or threat of violation, of the provisions of
this chapter, the City Council or the Code Enforcement Officer may institute
appropriate civil actions or proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction
requesting injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such
violations or threatened violations. The city may recover all costs, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.037 JOINT RESPONSIBILITY.
   If more than one person is a person responsible, they will be jointly and
severally liable for abating or correction the violation, for the costs
incurred by the city in abating or correcting the violation, and for any and
all penalties assessed for violation of the city’s code.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
LAND USE ZONE ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.050 CLASSIFICATION OF LAND USE ZONES.
   (A)   All areas within the urban growth boundary of the city are divided
into land use zones. The use of each lot, parcel, and tract of land is limited
to the uses permitted by the applicable land use zone, and shall be determined
based on the city zoning map and the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this chapter, land
within the city will be classified in one of the following zones:
      (1)   Residential Zone (R-1); and
      (2)   Community Commercial Zone (CC).
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.051 ZONE MAPS.
   (A)   Consistency with land use zoning map.
      (1)   The boundaries of each of the land use zones contained within this
subchapter shall coincide with the land uses zone boundaries identified on the
city’s official zoning map, retained by the City Recorder.
      (2)   A certified print of the adopted land use zone map, and any map
amendments, shall be maintained by the city. Said map by this reference is made
a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Applicability of zoning requirements. All land within the land use
zone boundaries identified on the official zoning map is limited to the uses
defined in this chapter.
   (C)   Land use zone map amendments.
      (1)   All amendments to the city land use zoning map shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of §§
155.385 through
155.389.
      (2)   The city shall make available for public inspection an up-to-date
copy of the revised land use zone map so that it accurately portrays changes of
zone boundaries or classification, as applicable.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.052 DETERMINATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where uncertainty exists regarding the specific location of a zone
boundary, an application for determination of zone boundaries may be submitted
to the city.
   (B)   An application shall include the material and information required at
§
155.282(D)(2). In considering the application, the city will use the Type II
procedures at §
155.284 and will apply the following criteria:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets shall be construed to follow such centerlines;
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall
be construed as following such city limits;
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following public utility easements shall be
taken to be midway between the utility casement boundaries;
      (5)   Boundaries following shorelines shall be taken to follow the
ordinary high water line. Boundaries following the centerlines of streams,
rivers, or other bodies of water shall be taken to follow said centerline and
no matter how the centerline should shift, the boundary would remain the
centerline as shifted;
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5) above shall be so construed; and
      (7)   Where a zone boundary divides a lot, the boundary location shall be
determined based on the criteria above (divisions (B)(1) through (B)(6) above),
if applicable, or, if they are not applicable, by a survey conducted by a
registered professional land surveyor licensed in the state.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.053 ZONING OF VACATED PROPERTY.
   Where a public right-of-way is officially vacated, the zoning requirements
applicable to the property of which the vacated area becomes a part
automatically applies to the vacated property.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
RESIDENTIAL (R-1) ZONE
§ 155.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Residential (R-1) Zone is to provide for rural
residential living opportunities envisioned in the Comprehensive Plan and to
provide for development at densities which will be compatible with, and not
adversely affect, the open space, natural resources, and overall environmental
quality of the city.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.066 ALLOWED LAND USES.
   (A)   In the R-1 Zone, the following types of buildings and uses are allowed
as hereinafter specifically provided for by this section, and subject to the
general provisions and exceptions set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   (a)   One single-family dwelling per lot, which may include site-
built, pre-fabricated, or manufactured housing, which meets the requirements of
applicable building codes and standards established by the state; and
         (b)   This provision shall not be construed as abolishing or repealing
a recorded restrictive covenant.
      (2)   Public and semi-public buildings and uses essential to the
physical, social, and economic welfare of the city including, but not limited
to, fire stations, substations, pump stations, wells, parks, playgrounds, and
community centers;
      (3)   Agriculture, including the growing and raising of trees, vines,
shrubs, berries, vegetables, nursery stock, hay, grains, and similar food and
fiber products, provided such activity does not conflict with state law; and
      (4)   Keeping ducks, geese, chickens, rabbits, and other similar fowl and
small animals in a sum total numbering 14, or less. If such animals are
creating a nuisance, the City Council shall have the power and authority to
notify the applicant that they must apply for a conditional use permit. The
owners shall then immediately be obliged to apply for a conditional use permit
and shall stand before the City Council in that process as though they had not
yet acquired the offending small animals and/or fowl and were seeking
permission to do so.
   (B)   Accessory buildings may not be sited prior to the issuance of a
residential permit.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.067 CONDITIONAL USES/USES SUBJECT TO REVIEW.
   (A)   The following conditional uses are allowed, subject to a conditional
use permit granted pursuant to the general provisions in §§
155.325 through
155.330:
      (1)   Places of worship;
      (2)   Fraternal lodges, grange halls, and clubs;
      (3)   Schools, public and private;
      (4)   Stables and riding academies;
      (5)   Animal husbandry, including the raising, tending, or breeding of
cattle, horses, sheep, goats, bees, poultry, fur-bearing animals, and swine for
purposes of domestic use. Such animal husbandry shall not be part of, or be
conducted in conjunction with, any livestock sales yard, slaughterhouse, or
animal by-product business. Such use shall include, but not be limited to, the
raising of small fowl, animals for show, competitions, or projects sponsored or
directed by a school, club, or other social or educational activity;
      (6)   Bed and breakfast;
      (7)   Multi-family housing;
      (8)   Guest houses; and
      (9)   Recreational marijuana producers.
   (B)   Plan review shall be required for new structures to be used as
residential care homes or facilities, and for conversion of an existing
residence to be used as a residential care home, to ensure compliance with the
licensing, parking, and other requirements of this code. The Planning
Commission shall do this review as a Type I procedure.
   (C)   Manufactured home parks are allowed subject to approval granted
through the subdivision or planned unit development process of this chapter.
   (D)   Home occupations are allowed subject to approval granted through the
home occupation permit process and provisions of §
155.416.
   (E)   Temporary seasonal and special events, temporary sales offices, or
model homes and temporary buildings are allowed subject to approval granted
through the temporary use permit process and provisions of §
155.415.
   (F)   Temporary occupancy of recreational vehicle and travel trailers may be
allowed in the R-1 Zone subject to approval granted through the process and
provisions of §
155.417.
(Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 247, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 155.068 USES NOT ALLOWED.
   All uses not listed under §§
155.066 and
155.067 are not allowed.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.069 REQUIREMENTS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   General dimensional requirements. The size, width, shape, and
orientation of building sites shall comply with lot requirements of this
section. See §
155.007 for definitions, and §§
155.500 through
155.504 for lot type drawings.
      (1)   Depth. Each lot shall have an average depth between the lot front
line and the lot rear line of not less than 150 feet, and shall not be more
than two and one-half times the average width between the lot lines. The two
and one-half times requirement does not apply to lots greater than five acres
in size.
      (2)   Frontage. Each lot shall have frontage of not less than 60 feet
upon a street or street easement, except:
         (a)   A lot on the outer radius of a curved street or facing a cul-de-
sac shall have frontage of not less than 35 feet upon a street, measured on the
arc; and
         (b)   Lots accessed by easement shall conform to the standards of §
155.201(I) and (K).
   (B)   Lot sidelines. Lot sidelines shall run at right angles to the street
upon which the lots face, except that on curved streets they shall be radial to
the curve.
   (C)   Land for public purpose. When the city, the school district, or other
public agency has expressed a definite interest in acquiring a specified
portion of a proposed division for a needed public purpose and there is
reasonable assurance that steps will be taken to acquire the land, then the
city may require that those portions of the division be reserved for public
acquisition at a negotiated price for a period not to exceed six months from
the date of City Council approval of a subdivision preliminary plan.
   (D)   Lake access. When common access is provided within a subdivision,
maintenance must be provided for in deed covenants (CC&Rs).
   (E)   Setback measurement. Building setbacks are measured from a point on
the wall or foundation
nearest to the respective property line. Setbacks for decks and porches are
measured from the edge of the deck or porch to the property line. The setback
standards, as listed on the following table and illustrated in §§
155.500 through
155.504, apply to primary structures as well as accessory structures. A
variance is required in accordance with §§
155.465 through
155.470 to modify any setback standard.
   (F)   Lots with water frontage. Lots with water frontage shall have a
minimum of 50 feet water frontage measured at the ordinary high water line.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.070 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   Requirements for lot area, width, and coverage, yard setbacks, building
height, and vision clearances are as set forth in the following table:
R-1 Zone Lot and Structures Requirements
Item Requirement
R-1 Zone Lot and Structures Requirements
Item                           Requirement
Lot area                       1 acre minimum
Lot average width              150 ft. minimum
Lot coverage:                  30% maximum
Structures/impervious surfaces
Riparian corridor              50 ft. (water-dependent excluded)
Significant wetlands:          0 ft.
Delineated wetlands            50 ft.
Non-delineated wetlands
Structure height:              Lesser of 32 feet or 2 1/2 stories maximum
Height from average grade
Structure setbacks:            30 ft. from Highway 101 right-of-way
Front yard                     25 ft. from property line
Front yard                     10 ft. from property line
Rear yard                      50 ft. (water-dependent uses excluded)
Shoreline                      15 ft. from property line
Side yard (corner lot)         10 ft. from property line
Side yard (interior lot)
Notes to Table:
For non-conforming lots, foundations may intrude into side yard setbacks no
more than two feet, and lot coverage may not exceed 40%.
 
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.071 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Additional setback requirements.
      (1)   Building features. The following building features may project into
the required front yard setback no more than five feet, and into the required
interior yards setback no more than two feet:
         (a)   Eaves, cornices, belt courses, sills, awnings, buttresses, HVAC
equipment, porches, platforms, decks, and landings;
         (b)   Chimneys and fireplaces, provided they do not exceed eight feet
in width; and
         (c)   Signs conforming to all other applicable provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Utility easements. Where a utility easement is recorded, the
setback shall not be less than the width of the easement.
      (3)   Structures in the setback areas. Structures in lot setback areas
are not permitted except for fences, retaining walls, water wellheads,
driveways, and utility poles and utility cabinets. Retaining walls are
permitted in setback areas only for the purpose of slope or grade stabilization
or retention, and may not be part of any other use. The height of retaining
walls in the setback areas shall be no higher than that permitted for fences.
   (B)   Additional height requirements.
      (1)   Height limits established for the respective zones refer to the
height of the building. Roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, and similar equipment required to operate
and maintain the building, fire, or parapet walls, skylights, towers,
flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, wireless masts, television antennas,
steeples, and similar structures may be erected above the height limits
prescribed in this chapter, provided that no roof structure, feature, or any
other device above the prescribed height limit shall be allowed or used for the
purpose of providing additional floor space.
      (2)   The maximum height of buildings permitted conditionally shall be
the same as the requirements of the zone in which it is located unless
otherwise specified.
      (3)   Fences in the front yard setback areas: Chain link unfilled (no
slats), ornamental, and other fencing that does not obstruct vision may not
exceed six feet in height. Solid fencing that obstructs vision shall be limited
to three and one-half feet in height. Fences in the side and rear yard setback
areas: Fencing (all types) may not exceed six feet in height.
      (4)   Fences are not permitted in the shoreland areas.
   (C)   Additional lot area requirements. The minimum area requirements of
this chapter shall not be construed to govern in situations where greater
minimum area requirements are imposed or required by state law, state rules,
and regulations, or other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.072 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   (A)   (1)   The following density standards apply to all new development.
      (2)   The standards are intended to ensure efficient use of buildable
lands and provide for a range of needed housing in conformance with the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   New land divisions and site developments shall provide for housing at
a maximum density of no more than one dwelling per acre.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.073 SPECIAL STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN USES.
   Sections 155.074 through 155.078 supplements the standards contained in §§
155.065 through
155.072. They provide standards for the following land uses in order to control
the scale and compatibility of those within the Residential Zone.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.074 MANUFACTURED HOMES, ACCESSORY PLACEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Manufactured homes are permitted on individual lots, subject to
all of the following design standards, consistent with O.R.S. 197.307(5).
      (2)   This provision shall not be construed as abolishing or repealing a
recorded restrictive covenant. Exception: The following standards do not apply
to units which were legally placed within the city prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
   (B)   In addition to all applicable general development standards and
requirements for Residential Zones (R-1) outlined in §
155.075, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be multi-sectional (“double wide” or
wider) and enclose a space of not less than 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and back-
filled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter.
      (3)   The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof greater than a
nominal three vertical feet in height for each horizontal 12 feet in width.
      (4)   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which
in color, material, and appearance is comparable to the exterior siding and
roofing material commonly used on residential dwellings within the city.
      (5)   The manufactured home shall be certified by the manufacturer to
have an exterior thermal envelope meeting performance standards which reduce
levels equivalent to the performance standards required of single-family
dwellings constructed under the State Building Code, as defined in O.R.S.
455.010.
      (6)   The manufactured home shall be installed in accordance with O.R.S.
446.155 through 446.285, O.A.R. 918-500 et seq., and the installation
instructions as supplied by the manufacturer.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.075 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings in the Residential Zone include detached garages,
sheds, workshops, greenhouses, guesthouses, and similar structures. No
accessory building in the Residential Zone may have a kitchen facility.
Accessory buildings may not be sited prior to the issuance of a residential
building permit. A building permit may not be issued for an accessory building
until the certificate of occupancy for the primary residence has been issued.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall be limited in size not to exceed the total
square foot area of the primary residence’s footprint and shall not exceed the
height of the primary residence. Accessory buildings shall be constructed from
the same materials and style and design of the primary residence. Exception:
Buildings 200 square feet or less are exempt from the materials, style, and
design requirements provision.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.076 BED AND BREAKFAST.
   (A)   Bed and breakfasts in the R-1 Zone shall be an operator-occupied or
owner-occupied home that is primarily used for this purpose.
   (B)   A maximum of five bedrooms for rent is allowed and one off-street
parking space is required for each bed rented.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.077 RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES AND FACILITIES.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES are residential treatment or training homes or adult
foster homes licensed by the state. They may provide residential care alone, or
in conjunction with treatment and/or training, in “homes” for five or fewer
individuals, or “facilities” for six to 15 individuals, none of whom need be
related. Staff persons required to meet state licensing requirements shall not
be counted in the number of facility residents and need not be related to each
other or the residents. Residential care homes and facilities shall comply with
the following standards, consistent with O.R.S. 197.660 through 197.670.
   (A)   Licensing. All residential care homes shall be duly licensed by the
state.
   (B)   Parking. A minimum of one off-street parking space shall be provided
for each employee and one for every two residents, in accordance with §§
155.215 through
155.217.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.078 GUEST HOUSES.
   A GUEST HOUSE is a separate structure either constructed on-site or a
manufactured dwelling, but not a recreational vehicle. Guest houses shall be
constructed from the same materials and style and design of the primary
residence. One guest house shall be allowed per lot of record in the R-1 Zone,
provided that setback and height standards of the zone are met. The primary
dwelling and guest house shall be considered as one dwelling unit. Land
divisions separating an approved guest house from the primary dwelling shall
not be allowed. A guest house must conform to the following standards.
   (A)   The maximum floor area of the guest house shall be 850 square feet,
excluding the garage.
   (B)   A guest house may include a toilet or bathroom plus one additional
sink, but shall not include a stove, oven, or other cooking appliances.
   (C)   The guest house shall be located within 100 feet of the primary
dwelling to which it is accessory. The distance shall be measured from the
closest portion of each structure.
   (D)   The guest house shall receive all utilities via extensions of the same
service lines as that of the primary dwelling for water, electric, gas, or
alternative energy. No separate meters for the guest house shall be allowed.
   (E)   If the primary dwelling is on a septic system, then the guest house
shall use the same septic system as the primary dwelling, pending certification
that the existing system is adequate to accommodate the additional residential
use.
   (F)   The guest house shall not have a separate address from the primary
dwelling.
   (G)   The guest house shall not be rented for any purpose other than as part
of the property as a whole.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.079 SIGNS.
   (A)   Within the Residential (R-1) Zone, signs may be installed after an
application is submitted and city approval is granted pursuant to the Type I
process defined in §
155.283. The standards for signs in the R-1 Zone are as follows:
      (1)   One nameplate, not exceeding four square feet in area, for each
dwelling unit identifying a home occupation. Nameplates less than four square
feet in area indicating the name and/or address of the occupant of a residence
are exempt from the application and approval process;
      (2)   One sign not exceeding 12 square feet in area for buildings other
than dwellings;
      (3)   One sign not exceeding six square feet pertaining to the sale or
rental of property; and
      (4)   One sign not exceeding 18 square feet in area advertising the sale
of property or undeveloped property of two acres or greater.
   (B)   Signs announcing the division and improvement of property in the
Residential (R-1) Zone may be erected according to the following provisions.
      (1)   The sign may not exceed 50 square feet in area.
      (2)   The sign may be double-faced; each side may be 50 square feet in
area or less.
      (3)   The top of the sign may not be more than ten feet about the ground
level, and the sign may not be erected nearer than ten feet to any property
line.
      (4)   Two such signs are permitted in each subdivision larger than five
acres that fronts on two or more streets.
      (5)   Two directional signs, each being six square feet or less, being
either single- or double-faced, may be erected outside the platted subdivision
area, not within the public right-of-way.
      (6)   Monument signs shall be approved at or before final plat approval
using a Type II process as defined in §
155.284.
   (C)   No sign shall be constructed, erected, or maintained which:
      (1)   Purports to be or is an imitation of, or resembles, an official
traffic sign or signal;
      (2)   By reason of its size, location, movement, content, coloring, or
manner of illumination may be confused with or construed as a traffic control
device; or which hides from view any traffic or street sign or signal;
      (3)   Advertises or publicizes an activity, business product, or service
no longer conducted on the premises upon which such signs are maintained;
      (4)   Is equipped with moving, rotating, or otherwise animated parts;
      (5)   Uses banners, flags, posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers,
flashing or intermittent light, lights, or oral or olfactory devices; and
      (6)   Is found to be a public nuisance pursuant to Chapter 91.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.080 RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PRODUCERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis family cannabaceae, whether
growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its resin. It does not include the stalks of the plant, fiber produced from
the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, or any other
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature
stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PRODUCER. The growing, or other production, of
five or
more plants of the Cannabis family cannabacea, or any part of the plant
Cannabis family cannabaceae, and the seeds of the plant by any business
licensed by the State Liquor Control Commission.
      RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. Any business licensed by the State
Liquor Control Commission to engage in the business of producing, processing,
wholesaling, researching, testing, or selling marijuana or marijuana items.
   (B)   In addition to all other requirements set forth in this subchapter,
recreational marijuana producers shall comply with the following additional
standards:
      (1)   All recreational marijuana producers shall hold, in good standing,
a license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   The facility must comply with all applicable laws and regulations
of the city code including, but not limited to, the development, land use,
zoning, building, fire, and business license codes;
      (3)   All doorways, windows, and other openings shall be located,
covered, or screened in such a manner to prevent a view into the interior from
any exterior public or semipublic area;
      (4)   Facilities must use an air filtration and ventilation system, which
is certified by a state licensed mechanical engineer, to ensure, to the
greatest extent feasible, that all objectionable odors associated with the
marijuana production is confined to the licensed premises. For purposes of this
division (B)(4), the standard for judging objectionable odors shall be that of
an average, reasonable person with ordinary sensibilities after taking into
consideration the character of the neighborhood in which the odor is made and
the odor is detected;
      (5)   Facilities must maintain adequate outdoor lighting over each
exterior exit, however, such lighting shall be placed and directed in a manner
to avoid reflection or glare on adjacent properties;
      (6)   Heat and glare created by the recreational marijuana producer must
not be discernible at or beyond the property line;
      (7)   No unreasonable noise, as described in §
91.05, will be created or allowed to exceed the requirements as set forth in
said §
91.05;
      (8)   Written evidence must be provided to show that a plan showing and
describing the security measures to be utilized within and around the
facilities has been provided to the County Sheriff’s Department and Siuslaw
Valley Fire and Rescue;
      (9)   Written evidence must be provided to show that all applicable fees
have been paid and there are no governmental liens, fines, or violations
existing against the property proposed for use by the marijuana producer;
      (10)   Written evidence must be provided to show the water source that
will serve the property proposed by the recreational marijuana producer;
      (11)   Recreational marijuana producers may not be located within 1,000
feet from the following facilities, measured in a straight line from the
closest property line on which the recreational marijuana production will take
place to the closest edge of the property line on which the facility is
located. These distance limitations between facilities are based upon the
facilities surrounding the proposed recreational marijuana producer facility at
the time the proposed recreational marijuana producer facility’s application
for a conditional use permit is first submitted pursuant to §
155.067:
         (a)   A public park;
         (b)   A campground or resort which serves children under 18 years of
age; or
         (c)   A school bus stop location which serves children under 18 years
of age, at the location of the stop at the time the conditional use permit is
issued.
      (12)   No more than one marijuana business may be located on the same
property, parcel, address, or tax lot;
      (13)   No drive-up or drive through services shall be permitted; and
      (14)   Any other conditions deemed necessary by the Planning Commission
or the City Council to protect the public health and safety of the residents of
the city.
   (C)   Should the real property for which a conditional use permit for
recreational marijuana producers has been issued pursuant to this subchapter no
longer be used for the purpose of producing or growing recreational marijuana,
or should said real property change ownership in any manner, the conditional
use permit shall be automatically terminated, effective immediately.
(Ord. 247, passed 7-11-2018)
COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL (CC) ZONE
§ 155.095 PURPOSE.
   The Community Commercial (CC) Zone is intended to accommodate, at convenient
locations within the city, commercial activities, which provide the basic goods
and services needed by the surrounding residents, and provide appropriate
tourist and recreational goods, services, and facilities consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.096 ALLOWED LAND USES.
   In the CC Zone, the following types of buildings and uses are allowed as
hereinafter specifically provided for by this subchapter, subject to the
general provisions and exceptions set forth in this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted outright or conditionally in the R-1 Zone;
   (B)   Grocery stores and general stores;
   (C)   Stores selling bakery products, dairy products, meat, fish, fruit,
vegetables, feed, and seed;
   (D)   Business and professional offices;
   (E)   Financial institutions;
   (F)   Nurseries and flora;
   (G)   Clinics;
   (H)   Restaurants and cafés;
   (I)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (J)   Curio and gift shops;
   (K)   Boat sales and repair service;
   (L)   Rental facilities for boats, recreational vehicles, and storage units;
   (M)   Post offices;
   (N)   Hotels and motels;
   (O)   Places of worship;
   (P)   Tourist parks;
   (Q)   Laundromats; and
   (R)   Marinas, boat launching, moorage facilities, boat rental, and charter
services.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.097 CONDITIONAL USES/USES SUBJECT TO REVIEW.
   (A)   The following conditional uses are allowed subject to a conditional
use permit granted pursuant to the general provisions in §§
155.325 through
155.330:
      (1)   Taverns and cocktail lounges;
      (2)   Automobile or smaller vehicle repair shops;
      (3)   Lumber and building material stores;
      (4)   Hardware stores;
      (5)   Service stations, provided that greasing and tire repairing are
performed completely within an enclosed building. This includes all automotive
and marine fuel stations;
      (6)   Marinas, boat launching, moorage facilities, boat rental, and
charter services; and
      (7)   Recreational marijuana processors.
   (B)   Manufactured home parks are allowed subject to approval granted
through the subdivision or
planned unit development process of this chapter.
   (C)   Recreational vehicle (RV) parks are allowed subject to approval
granted through the recreational vehicle (RV) parks approval process at §
155.432.
   (D)   Temporary seasonal and special events, temporary sales offices, or
model homes and temporary buildings are allowed subject to approval granted
through the temporary use permit process of §
155.415.
(Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 247, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 155.098 USES NOT ALLOWED.
   All uses not listed under §§
155.096 and
155.097 are not allowed.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.099 REQUIREMENTS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. The size, width, shape, and orientation of building
sites shall comply with lot requirements where the depth and width of
properties shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and parking
facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated. See §
155.007 for definitions, and §§
155.500 through
155.504 for lot type drawings.
      (1)   Depth. Each lot shall have an average depth between the lot front
line and the lot rear line of not less than 150 feet, and shall not be more
than two and one-half times the average width between the lot lines. The two
and one-half times requirement does not apply to lots greater than five acres
in size.
      (2)   Frontage. Each lot shall have frontage of not less than 60 feet
upon a street, except that a lot on the outer radius of a curved street or
facing the circular end of a cul-de-sac shall have frontage of not less than 35
feet upon a street, measured on the arc. Lots with water frontage shall have a
minimum of 50 feet frontage.
   (B)   Lot sidelines. Lot sidelines shall run at right angles to the street
upon which the lots face, except that on curved streets they shall be radial to
the curve.
   (C)   Land for public purpose. When the city, the school district, or other
public agency has expressed a definite interest in acquiring a specified
portion of a proposed division for a needed public purpose and there is
reasonable assurance that steps will be taken to acquire the land, then the
city may require that those portions of the division be reserved for public
acquisition at a negotiated price for a period not to exceed six months from
the date of City Council approval of a subdivision preliminary plan.
   (D)   Lake access. Common access may be provided within a subdivision where
maintenance is
provided in deed covenants (CC&Rs).
   (E)   Setback measurement. Building setbacks are measured from the portion
of a structure located nearest to its respective property line. Setbacks for
decks and porches are measured from the edge of the deck or porch to the
property line. The setback standards, as listed on the following table and
illustrated in §§
155.500 through
155.504 apply to primary structures as well as accessory structures. A variance
is required in accordance with §§
155.465 through
155.470 to modify any setback standard.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.100 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
CC Zone Lot and Structure Requirements
Item Requirement
CC Zone Lot and Structure Requirements
Item                                Requirement
Lot area                            1 acre minimum
Lot average width                   150 ft. minimum
Lot coverage:                       50% maximum
Structures                          70% maximum
Structures with impervious surfaces
Riparian area                       50 ft. (water-dependent uses excluded)
Significant wetlands:               0 ft.
Delineated wetland                  50 ft.
Non-delineated wetland
Structure height:                   Lesser of 32 ft. or 2 1/2 stories maximum
Height from average grade
Structure setbacks:                 30 ft. from Highway 101 right-of-way
Front yard                          25 ft. from property line
Front yard                          10 ft. from property line
Rear yard                           50 ft. (water-dependent uses excluded)
Shoreline                           15 ft. from property line
Side yard (corner lot)              10 ft. from property line
Side yard (interior lot)
 
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.101 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Additional setback requirements; building features. The following
building features may project into the required front yard setback no more than
five feet, and into the required interior yard setback no more than two feet:
      (1)   Eaves, cornices, belt courses, sills, awnings, buttresses, air
conditioners, or other similar features;
      (2)   Chimneys and fireplaces, provided they do not exceed eight feet in
width;
      (3)   Porches, platforms, decks, or landings which do not extend above
the level of the first floor of the building; and
      (4)   Signs conforming to all other applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Utility easements. Where a utility easement is recorded, the setback
shall not be less than the width of the easement.
   (C)   Fences and walls. In the Community Commercial (CC) Zone, fences or
walls not to exceed eight feet in height may be located or maintained in any
yard, except where the requirements of vision clearance apply or within the
shoreland setback area.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.102 SIGNS.
   (A)   Within the Community Commercial Zone, the erection of a new on-
premises sign is allowed after an application is submitted and city approval is
granted pursuant to the Type I process at §
155.283. An application to erect a new sign must include a design drawing done
to scale, indicating the dimensions and height of the sign and be accompanied
by the required fee.
   (B)   Existing signs that are legal non-conforming uses or that have a valid
sign permit may be repaired and repainted without obtaining a new permit, so
long as there is no significant change in the general dimensions or height.
Such a significant change would make it necessary to obtain a permit and comply
with the requirements of §
155.098.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PREMISES. A single commercially-zoned lot or group of commercially-zoned
lots upon which a business enterprise, or combination of business enterprises,
operates from a single continuous structure.
      SIGN, BUILDING-MOUNTED. A sign affixed to the roof of a building or a
painted sign attached to the exterior of a building or improvement.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign which guides customers to areas such as
parking, laundry facilities, restrooms, boat ramps, and the like, and whose
principal purpose is not to solicit additional business.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign not attached to any building or improvement.
   (D)   The standards for new signs in the CC Zone are as follows:
      (1)   Prohibited signs. Signs equipped with moving, rotating, or
otherwise animated parts, signs with flashing or intermittent lights or lamps,
signs with oral or olfactory devices, signs that would block other allowed
signs or traffic control signs, signs which would interfere with, mislead, or
obstruct traffic control signs and thereby interfere with the motoring public,
and any sign that is found to be a public nuisance pursuant to Chapter 91.
      (2)   Height of sign. No sign in the city shall exceed 16 feet in height
from ground level or the roadway surface, whichever is higher.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.103 RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PROCESSORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis family cannabaceae, whether
growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its resin. It does not include the stalks of the plant, fiber produced from
the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, or any other
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature
stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      MARIJUANA BUSINESS. Any business licensed by the State Liquor Control
Commission to engage in the business of producing, processing, wholesaling,
researching, testing, or selling marijuana or marijuana items.
      RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. Any business licensed by the State
Liquor Control Commission for processing, wholesaling, researching, testing, or
selling marijuana or marijuana items.
   (B)   In addition to all other requirements set forth in this subchapter,
recreational marijuana processors shall comply with the following additional
standards:
      (1)   All recreational marijuana processors shall hold, in good standing,
a license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   The facility must comply with all applicable laws and regulations
of the city code including, but not limited to, the development, land use,
zoning, building, fire, and business license codes;
      (3)   All doorways, windows, and other openings shall be located,
covered, or screened in such a manner to prevent a view into the interior from
any exterior public or semipublic area;
      (4)   Facilities must use an air filtration and ventilation system which
is certified by a state licensed mechanical engineer to ensure, to the greatest
extent feasible, that all objectionable odors associated with the marijuana
processing is confined to the licensed premises. For purposes of this division
(B)(4), the standard for judging objectionable odors shall be that of an
average, reasonable person with ordinary sensibilities after taking into
consideration the character of the neighborhood in which the odor is made and
the odor is detected;
      (5)   Facilities must maintain adequate outdoor lighting over each
exterior exit, however, such lighting shall be placed and directed in a manner
to avoid reflection or glare on adjacent properties;
      (6)   Heat and glare created by the recreational marijuana processing
must not be discernible at or beyond the property line;
      (7)   No unreasonable noise, as described in §
91.05, will be created or allowed to exceed the requirements as set forth in
said §
91.05;
      (8)   Written evidence must be provided to show that a plan showing and
describing the security measures to be utilized within and around the
facilities has been provided to the County Sheriff’s Department and Siuslaw
Valley Fire and Rescue;
      (9)   Written evidence to show that all applicable fees have been paid
and there are no governmental liens, fines, or violations existing against the
property proposed for use by the recreational marijuana processor;
      (10)   Written evidence to show the water source that will serve the
property proposed by the recreational marijuana processor;
      (11)   Recreational marijuana processors may not be located within 1,000
feet from the following facilities, measured in a straight line from the
closest property line on which the recreational marijuana processing will take
place to the closest edge of the property line on which the facility is
located. The distance limitations between facilities are based upon the
facilities surrounding the proposed recreational marijuana processor location
at the time of submission of a completed application for conditional use
permit:
         (a)   A public park;
         (b)   A campground or resort which serves children under 18 years of
age; or
         (c)   A school bus stop location which serves children under 18 years
of age, at the location of the stop at the time the conditional use permit is
issued.
      (12)   No more than one recreational marijuana business may be located on
the same property, parcel, address, or tax lot;
      (13)   No drive-up or drive through services shall be permitted; and
      (14)   Any other conditions deemed necessary by the Planning Commission
or the City Council to protect the public health and safety of the residents of
the city.
   (B)   Should the real property for which a conditional use permit for
recreational marijuana processors has been issued pursuant to this subchapter
no longer be used for the purpose of processing recreational marijuana, or
should said real property change ownership in any manner, the conditional use
permit shall be automatically terminated, effective immediately.
(Ord. 247, passed 7-11-2018)
OPEN SPACE (OS) OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.115 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city has determined as a matter of policy that significant
development restraints should be placed upon certain lands. These lands shall
be designated Open Space (OS). OS lands shall be further delineated according
to whether they are lakes (OS-L) or shorelands (OS-S), as defined in §
155.007, and by the City Comprehensive Plan. These designations, and their
attendant development restrictions, shall attach to lands within the city.
   (B)   The purpose of the OS designation is to prevent irreparable ecological
damage and construction upon land which will flood, not support structures, and
the like. Specific development restraints shall be accorded different sub-
designations.
   (C)   This section, which authorizes some shoreland structure construction
and maintenance upon issuance of a building permit, is intended to meet the
stated purpose while facilitating a mere-rapid approval process for such
construction and maintenance on waterfront property within the city that is
zoned R-1. Those uses not allowed outright with a building permit may be
allowed upon approval of a variance application.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.116 LAKES AND SHORELANDS (R-1 ZONE).
   The city has jurisdiction for all shoreland structures that are accessed
from properties within the city. Construction of any dock, boathouse, or any
water-dependent structure requires approval of all applicable local, state, and
federal agencies.
   (A)   Allowed uses.
      (1)   Shoreland structures that comply with the standards set forth in
division (B) below for placement, size, and construction allowed, provided that
a building permit is obtained for each structure.
      (2)   The number of shoreland structures allowed for each lot shall be
limited to:
         (a)   One water access point (stairs, landing, or path);
         (b)   One dock; and
         (c)   One boathouse or water-dependent recreational vehicle storage
structure.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Placement.
         (a)   As measured from the ordinary high water line (OHW), a pier and
gangway shall extend into the water not more than 150 feet perpendicular to the
shoreline or to a bottom depth of five feet at the ordinary low water (OLW),
whichever provides the shortest extension into the water. In the event of a
steep bottom grade, the structure is permitted to extend from the OLW line to
the extent that 24 feet of the structure may extend into the water beyond the
two-foot water level (at the OLW).
         (b)   The structure shall not be placed within ten feet of lot
sidelines or extensions of these lines into the water.
         (c)   Enclosed or covered open structures may extend into the water
beyond the OLW no more than 50 feet.
         (d)   Any structure approved for construction on the Siltcoos River,
starting a the Lake Boulevard bridge, shall have its long dimension parallel to
the shoreline in order to minimize channel flow restriction.
      (2)   Size.
         (a)   Docks and boathouses shall have a combined area of no more than
640 square feet. The area of the gangway and pilings are not included in the
area of use calculations.
         (b)   Piers, or docks, shall not exceed 200 square feet in area.
Gangways shall not exceed six feet in width.
         (c)   All structures shall be limited to one story in height, with a
maximum of 12 feet vertically from deck to ridgeline.
         (d)   Water access points (stairs, landings, or paths) in the
shorelands shall have a maximum width of eight feet and shall extend through
the shoreland by as direct a route as practical.
         (e)   Water-dependent recreational equipment storage structures shall
be no more than 200 square feet in area.
      (3)   Construction.
         (a)   The State Structural Specialty Code (OSSC), which is based on
the International Building Code (IBC), generally applies to landside structures
such as stairs and landings. However, there may components of the on-water or
in-water facility that are covered by the OSSC (for example, pilings or docks).
Upon signature of the Planning Official on an applicant’s waterway structure
registration Application, the application will be subject to review and
approval by the State Department of State Lands (DSL) and other state and
federal agencies.
         (b)   The design of all piers and gangways shall provide for:
            1.   Pile guide clearance to compensate for OHW or float level; and
            2.   Piers more than 30 inches aboveground or water shall have
handrails on at least one side 34 inches high. Piers constructed with more than
a 10% grade on the walkway shall have handrails on both sides. Elevated piers
or wharves used as mooring structures are not required to have handrails in the
areas intended for mooring.
         (c)   The design for gangways shall provide for:
            1.   Handrails on both sides of the gangway at the height of at
least 34 inches;
            2.   Rollers under gangway to allow for travel under varied water
levels; and
            3.   Non-skid or other appropriate treatment of the walking
surface.
         (d)   Pilings:
            1.   Shall use only materials approved by the State Department of
State Lands; and
            2.   Piling tops to be no shorter than two feet above ordinary high
water on Woahink Lake and no shorter than four feet above ordinary high water
on Siltcoos Lake.
         (e)   Dredging and filling within the shoreland area is not permitted
without the State Department of State Lands and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers authorization.
         (f)   All materials used in the construction of shoreland or water-
related structures shall be approved by the State Department of State Lands.
Proof of such approvals shall accompany all shoreland structure building permit
applications (DSL-approved lease or registration will be considered the minimum
requirement).
         (g)   Foam flotation elements shall be encapsulated per the State
Marine Board requirements. A copy of the State Marine Board flotation
encapsulation certification form shall be submitted to the city prior to final
inspection.
         (h)   Structures extending into the water and fixed relative to the
lake bottom, and which may be submerged at ordinary high water, shall have
visible markers extending at least four above OHW at intervals of eight feet or
less along the length of the submerged structure.
         (i)   High voltage exterior lighting shall be manually or motion
controlled and used only when the illuminated area is occupied. Low voltage
own-facing lighting on timers or light level control may be used to illuminate
docks for safety. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be equipped with glare
shields.
         (j)   Two adjacent property owners may agree to have shared docks and
shared dock access to more than one parcel.
      (4)   Access to structures and landings.
         (a)   Access to water-dependent and water-related structures shall be
by the shortest route considered safe due to grade or slope stability, and be
no more than eight feet wide in straight sections. In the event of routes with
sections greater than 16% grade, any change in direction of 45 degrees or
higher in the high grade section may be accomplished by the use of landings at
the direction change points.
         (b)   The landings shall be no more than 80 square feet in area.
Stairways, landings, and wharfs on grades of 16% or greater shall be engineered
by an engineer licensed in the state and approved by the city for safety and
slope stability.
         (c)   Landings (viewing areas) not used for water access are limited
to 200 square feet or less in area, and a maximum deck height of less than 30
inches above grade.
      (5)   Maintenance and repair.
         (a)   A city building permit shall be required for any repair to a
shoreland or water-related structure conforming to this section or allowed
under a conditional use permit that is in excess of 75% of the current value of
that structure, as determined by the Building Official.
         (b)   The city building permit shall be required for any non-identical
repair of a shoreland or water-related structure.
         (c)   An approved variance and a building permit shall be required for
any repair to a shoreland or water-related structure not conforming to the
requirements of this section not already approved by an approved variance that
is in excess of 50% of the current value of that structure, as determined by
the Building Official.
         (d)   The Building Official shall verify the percentage value of any
maintenance or repair prior to the issuance of a building permit or conditional
use permit.
      (6)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Public access in coastal shoreland areas shall be retained or
replaced when public property, rights-of-way, or public easements are sold,
exchanged, or transferred.
         (b)   Prior to an application for a building permit, shoreland
properties shall be surveyed to locate the line 50 feet horizontally upland
from the ordinary high water line. This survey shall meet the same standards as
a lot line, and permanent steel pins shall be every 50 feet and 50 feet past
each end of the proposed building site, or a minimum of five pins. Survey
documents shall be provided with the
application.
         (c)   A permit for a dock shall require one survey pin, with plastic
pipe, 50 feet upland from the ordinary high water line, at a center of eight-
foot access to said dock. No documents or deed filing is required.
         (d)   1.   A permit for vegetation removal shall require a survey to
locate the line 50 feet upland from the ordinary high water line.
            2.   This survey shall meet the same standards as a lot line, and
permanent steel pins will be marked with two-foot plastic pipe. The spacing of
the pins shall be every 50 feet, one at the center of the area and one at each
end, or a minimum of three pins. Survey documents shall be provided with the
application.
            3.   Any permit for a new area of vegetation removal shall require
a new survey.
         (e)   A variance procedure may be used for surveys of less than full
shoreland boundary length.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.117 LAKES AND SHORELANDS (CC ZONE).
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction for all shoreland structures that are
accessed from properties within the city.
   (B)   Construction of any dock, boathouse, or any water-dependent structure
requires approval of all applicable local, state, and federal agencies.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
FRAGILE LANDS (FL) OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.130 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The city has determined as a matter of policy that significant
development restraints be placed upon certain fragile lands designated Fragile
Lands (FL).
      (2)   FL lands shall be further delineated according to whether they are
excessive in slope (FL-S) or stabilized or active dunes (FL-D), as defined
herein and by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of the FL designation is to prevent irreparable
ecological damage and construction upon land where development can create
potential for wind and water erosion.
      (2)   In the interests of protecting the general health, welfare, and
safety of the citizens of the city, the different FL sub-designations shall be
defined and implemented in the following sections.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.131 EXCESSIVE SLOPES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, EXCESSIVE SLOPES are
those slopes 12% or steeper, as generally identified on the City Comprehensive
Plan’s geological constraints map.
   (B)   Allowed uses. All uses allowed in the underlying zone are allowed in
excessive slopes, except that:
      (1)   Development on slopes 12% to 16% shall be subject to site review
and approval by the City Engineer and the Planning Commission; and
      (2)   (a)   Development on slopes greater than 16% will be allowed only
after the applicant has supplied proof of safety of the proposed development.
         (b)   A licensed State Engineer’s report shall satisfy proof of safety
of the proposed development.
   (C)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses allowed in the underlying zone
are allowed.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.132 STABILIZED OR ACTIVE DUNES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, APPLICABLE DUNES are
those lands where development will destroy sand-stabilizing surface vegetation
or expose loose or cemented sand to wind or water erosion.
   (B)   Allowed uses.
      (1)   All uses allowed in the underlying zone are allowed in applicable
dunes, except that the city shall required the applicant to prepare a plan to
re-vegetate damaged areas and to negate erosion potential caused by the
proposed development.
      (2)   This shall be condition of approval for all development.
   (C)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses allowed in the underlying zone
are allowed.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
WETLAND OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.145 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Wetland Overlay Zone is to protect the value of
significant wetlands (defined in § 155.147).
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.146 GOAL 5 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The state-wide Planning Goal 5 requires cities to protect the
significant wetlands within their boundaries, and also defines alternative
rules that may be applied to satisfy the goal. The city has adopted the
standard Goal 5 process, as defined by O.A.R. 660-023-0020(1).
   (B)   Although Goal 5 requires program decisions for all wetlands that meet
the significance criteria, the city shall retain the non-significant wetlands
on its local wetlands inventory (LWI) map in order to alert property owners and
others that the State Department of State Lands and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers fill permits may still be required for actions that affect these
wetlands.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.147 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JURISDICTIONAL DELINEATION. A delineation of the wetland boundary that is
approved by the State Department of State Lands (DSL). A DELINEATION is a
precise map and documentation of actual wetland boundaries on a parcel, whereas
a determination may only be a rough map or a presence/absence finding.
   LOCALLY SIGNIFICANT WETLAND. A wetland that is determined to be significant
under the criteria of O.A.R. 141-086-0300 et seq. These criteria include those
wetlands that score a high rating for fish or wildlife habitat, hydrologic
control, or water quality improvement functions.
   LOCAL WETLANDS INVENTORY (LWI). Maps and reports adopted by the city
entitled “Dunes City Local Wetlands Inventory and Riparian Inventory (DCLWIRI)”
and any subsequent revisions as approved by the State Department of State
Lands. The LWI is a comprehensive survey of all wetlands one-half acre or
greater in size.
   STATE FRESHWATER WETLAND ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY (OFWAM). A wetland function
and quality assessment methodology developed by the State Department of State
Lands.
   WETLAND. An area inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and which, under normal
circumstances, does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions.
   WETLAND PROTECTION AREA. An area subject to the provisions of this chapter
that includes all wetlands determined to be locally significant.
   WETLAND RESOURCE MAP. The city-adopted map, which incorporates the DSL-
approved LWI map and identifies locally significant wetlands.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Specifications for wetland delineation or determination reports, see O.A.R.
141-090-0005 et seq.
§ 155.148 DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANT WETLANDS.
   (A)   The city determines which wetlands are locally significant in
accordance with rules adopted by the State Department of State Lands. Locally
significant wetlands are identified on the city wetland resource map.
   (B)   The city adopts the findings of the LWI. Any revision to the LWI shall
map any wetlands boundary changes or new wetland boundaries to an accuracy of
at least 25 feet. The city shall require that maps or data sets be provided for
the LWI that determine wetland boundaries within 25 feet. These maps or data
sets shall comprise the city wetland resource map.
   (C)   Any change to the DCLWIRI shall require a professional wetland
scientist to provide a finding of wetland significance for any new or changed
wetland.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.149 PROTECTION OF WETLAND AREA.
   (A)   Wetland protection areas consist of locally significant wetlands only.
   (B)   Unless otherwise stated, the city shall apply the provisions of this
section in conjunction and concurrently with the requirements of any
development permit being sought by an applicant.
   (C)   (1)   No delineation is required if the proposed development is
located 50 feet or more from a significant wetland identified on the LWI map or
a determination, but not an approved delineation.
      (2)   This is not a buffer or setback, it is an allowance for the LWI map
inaccuracy when the expense of a precise delineation may not be warranted.
(Note that compliance with state and federal wetland regulations for all
wetlands, mapped or unmapped, remains the legal responsibility of the
landowner.)
   (D)   Applications for plan approvals, development permits, building
permits, and plans for proposed public facilities on parcels containing a
wetland protection area, or a portion thereof, that are within 50 feet of the
wetland boundary, shall include the following:
      (1)   (a)   A delineation of the wetland boundary completed by a
professional wetland scientist, or similar expert, qualified to delineate
wetlands in accordance with the State Department of State Lands rules.
         (b)   If the proposed project is designed to avoid wetlands, a wetland
determination report may be provided in place of the delineation.
      (2)   A scale drawing that clearly depicts the wetland boundary, the
surface water source, existing trees and vegetation, property boundaries, and
proposed site alterations including proposed excavation, fill, structures, and
paved areas.
   (E)   The city shall report all development in wetlands, identified in the
city’s local wetland inventory and riparian inventory to the State Department
of State Lands.
   (F)   The requirements of the city’s erosion control regulations shall be
followed during construction.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Erosion control, see §§
154.20 through
154.29
§ 155.150 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR REVIEW.
   In considering a proposal under §
155.149(D), the city shall base its decision on the following criteria in
addition to the required criteria for any other permit or approval that is
being sought. Approvals shall be based on compliance with all of the following
criteria:
   (A)   Except as otherwise allowed in §
155.151, the proposed project does not include any grading, excavation, or
filling of a wetland or reduction of wetland area on a parcel that has been
identified as containing a wetland.
   (B)   Except as otherwise allowed in §
155.151, the proposed project will not include any development or filling of
land within 50 feet of the boundary of a wetland that has been identified only
on the LWI map or by a determination, but not an approved, jurisdictional
delineation.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.151 ALLOWED ACTIVITIES WITHIN WETLAND PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   (1)   Any use, sign, or structure, and the maintenance thereof, that
was lawfully established but that no longer conforms to the provisions of §
155.149 is allowed to continue within a wetland protection area.
      (2)   Such use, sign, or structure may continue at a similar level and
manner as existed on the date of adoption.
      (3)   The maintenance and alteration of pre-existing ornamental
landscaping is permitted within a wetland protection area so long as no
additional native vegetation is disturbed. The provisions of this division (A)
shall not be affected by any change in ownership of properties containing a
wetland protection area.
   (B)   The following activities, and maintenance thereof, are allowed within
a wetland protection area, provided that any applicable state or federal
permits are secured:
      (1)   Wetland restoration and rehabilitation activities, including native
vegetation;
      (2)   Cutting and removal of trees that pose a hazard to life or property
due to threat of falling;
      (3)   Removal of non-native vegetation, if replaced with native plant
species at similar coverage or density, so that natives are dominant;
      (4)   Maintenance of existing drainage ways, ditches, or other
structures, to maintain flow at original design capacity and mitigate upstream
flooding, provided that management practices avoid sedimentation and impact to
native vegetation, and any spoils are placed in uplands;
      (5)   Replacement of a permanent, legal, non-conforming structure in
existence on the date of adoption of this chapter with a structure on the same
building footprint, if it does not disturb additional area, and in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (6)   Expansion of a permanent, legal, non-conforming structure in
existence on the date of adoption of this chapter, if the expansion area is not
within and does not disturb the wetland protection area, and in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter;
      (7)   Emergency stream bank stabilization to remedy immediate threats to
life or property; and
      (8)   Maintenance and repair of existing roads and streets, including
repaving and repair of existing bridges and culverts, provided that such
practices avoid sedimentation and other discharges into the wetland or
waterway.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.152 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES WITHIN WETLAND PROTECTION AREA.
   The following activities are prohibited within significant wetland areas:
   (A)   Placement of structures or impervious surfaces, including fences,
decks, and the like;
   (B)   Excavation, grading, fill, stream alteration or diversion, or removal
of native vegetation, except for perimeter mowing for fire protection purposes
or the installation of a water line to a lake;
   (C)   Expansion of pre-existing, non-native ornamental vegetation, such as
lawns;
   (D)   Dumping, piling, or disposal of refuse, yard debris, or other
material; and
   (E)   Any use not specifically listed in §
155.151.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.153 NOTIFICATION AND COORDINATION WITH STATE AGENCIES.
   (A)   The city shall notify the State Department of State Lands in writing
of all applications to the city for development activities that may affect any
wetland identified in the DCLWIRI.
   (B)   This applies for both significant and non-significant wetlands.
   (C)   The Department provides a wetland land use notification form for this
purpose.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.154 MAP ERROR CORRECTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The city shall consider applications for map error corrections and
hardship variances to the wetland protection area provisions.
   (B)   Using a Type I process, the city will correct the location of the
wetland protection overlay zone when the applicant has shown that a mapping
error has occurred and the error has been verified by the Department of State
Lands (DSL). Delineations verified by DSL shall be used to automatically update
and replace DCLWIRI mapping. No formal variance application or Comprehensive
Plan amendment is
needed for map corrections where DSL-approved delineations are provided.
   (C)   The Type III process and the procedures of §§
155.465 through
155.470 shall be followed for consideration of a hardship variance, except that
the variance criteria of this division (C) shall apply in lieu of the variance
criteria at §§
155.465 through
155.470. The City Council will grant a variance to the provisions of this
section only when the applicant has shown that all of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   Through application of the Wetland Overlay Zone protections, the
property has been rendered not buildable;
      (2)   The applicant has exhausted all other options available under this
subchapter relieve the hardship;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum variance necessary to afford
relief;
      (4)   No significant adverse impacts on water quality, erosion, or slope
stability will result from approval of this hardship variance, or these impacts
have been mitigated to the greatest extent possible; and
      (5)   Loss of vegetative cover shall be minimized.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
RIPARIAN OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.165 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Riparian Overlay Zone is to protect the values of
significant riparian corridors (defined in § 155.167) which occur within the
boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.166 GOAL 5 REQUIREMENTS.
   The state-wide Planning Goal 5 requires cities to protect significant
riparian corridors within their boundaries and also defines alternative rules
that may be applied to satisfy the goal. The city has adopted the standard Goal
5 process, as defined by O.A.R. 660-023-0020(1).
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.167 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FISH HABITAT. Those areas upon which fish depend in order to meet their
requirements for spawning, rearing, food supply, and migration.
   LOCALLY SIGNIFICANT RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. Any boundary area of lake or stream
that is fish bearing.
   RIPARIAN AREA. The area adjacent to a river, lake, reservoir, estuary,
pothole, spring, bog, wet meadow, muskeg, or ephemeral, intermittent or
perennial stream consisting of the area of transition from an aquatic ecosystem
to a terrestrial ecosystem.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. A Goal 5 resource that includes the water areas, fish
habitat, adjacent riparian areas, and wetlands within the riparian area
boundary. Along all lakes, and fish-bearing streams with average annual stream
flow less than 1,000 cubic feet per second (CFS), the RIPARIAN CORRIDOR
boundary shall be 50 feet from the top of each bank.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR BOUNDARY. An imaginary line that is a certain distance
upland from the top bank. See also §
155.168.
   STREAM. A channel such as a river or creek that carries flowing surface
water, including perennial streams and intermittent streams, with defined
channels and excluding human-made irrigation and drainage channels.
   STRUCTURE. A building or other major improvement that is built, constructed,
or installed, not including minor improvements, such as fences, utility poles,
flagpoles, or irrigation system components, that are not customarily regulated
through zoning ordinances.
   TOP OF BANK.
      (1)   The same meaning as “bank-full stage” defined in O.A.R. 141-085-
0510(5) as “the two-year recurrence interval flood elevation.”
      (2)   TOP OF BANK means the distinct break in slope between the stream
bank or shoreline and the stream bottom or marine beach or bed, excluding areas
of sloughing. For steep banks that extend into the water, the toe may be
submerged below the ordinary high water line. For artificial structures, such
as jetties or bulkheads, the toe refers to the base of the structure, where it
meets the streambed or marine beach or bed.
   WATER AREA. The area between the banks of a lake, pond, river, and perennial
or fish-bearing intermittent stream, excluding human-made farm ponds.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Riparian corridor boundaries, see O.A.R. 660-023-0090(1)(d) and O.A.R. 660-
023-0090(5)
   Streams, see O.A.R. 660-023-0090(1)(e)
   Structures, see O.A.R. 660-023-0090(1)(f)
   Water areas, see O.A.R. 660-023-0900(1)(h)
§ 155.168 DETERMINATION OF LOCAL SIGNIFICANT RIPARIAN CORRIDORS.
   (A)   For inventory resources to be protected as a significant Goal 5
resources, the city shall determine that the information used is adequate in
accordance with O.A.R. 660-023-0030(3). Upon written objection to the adequacy
of the inclusion in the city’s local wetlands inventory and riparian inventory,
the adequacy shall be determined by the Planning Commission and may be appealed
to the City Council.
   (B)   The city shall determine which riparian corridors are locally
significant in accordance with rules adopted by the State Department of Land
Conservation and Development in O.A.R. 660-023-0090(8) and O.A.R. 660-023-0030
(4). Only significant riparian corridors shall be listed in the DCLWIRI.
   (C)   Significant riparian corridors are identified on the DCLWIRI map.
These riparian corridors shall be mapped to an accuracy of at least 25 feet and
shall be based upon the DCLWIRI.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.169 PROTECTION OF RIPARIAN CORRIDORS.
   (A)   Locally significant riparian corridors, as listed in the DCLWIRI,
shall determine its riparian corridor boundary at 50 feet from the top of bank.
   (B)   Where the riparian corridor includes all or portions of a locally
significant wetland, the boundary shall be measured from the upland edge of the
wetland.
   (C)   With the exception of the following instances listed below, and only
when these instances are designed to minimize intrusion into the riparian
corridor, grading involving cutting and filling, and placement of structures or
impervious surfaces shall not be allowed. Exceptions:
      (1)   Streets and paths;
      (2)   Utilities and pumps;
      (3)   Water-dependent and water-related uses, including one access path
not to exceed eight feet in width; and
      (4)   Replacement of less than 75% of an existing structures in the same
position with structures that do not disturb additional areas within the
riparian corridor.
   (D)   Upon an approved variance application, the setback may be allowed to
average 50 feet, provided that the design of the development minimizes impact
to the riparian corridor.
   (E)   (1)   For existing parcels that, through application of the
requirements of this section, have no usable building site, a variance may be
granted to allow a building site on the parcel.
      (2)   Provided, that the design of the development minimizes impact to
the riparian corridor.
   (F)   Within the riparian corridor, riparian vegetation shall not be removed
except:
      (1)   Removal of non-native vegetation and replacement with native plant
species shall be allowed; and
      (2)   (a)   Riparian vegetation may be removed if necessary for the
development of water-dependent or water-related uses, or as specified in
division (C) above.
         (b)   Provided, such removal is minimized to reduce impact to the
riparian corridor and to protect water quality.
   (G)   Permitted vegetation removal and pruning within the riparian corridor
shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 154.
   (H)   Erosion control measures shall be approved by appropriate regulatory
agencies.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.170 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES WITH RIPARIAN CORRIDORS.
   The following activities are prohibited with a riparian corridor, except as
may be allowed by §
155.169:
   (A)   Placement of structures or impervious surfaces, including fences,
decks, and the like;
   (B)   Excavation, grading, fill, stream alteration or diversion, or removal
of native vegetation, except for perimeter mowing for fire protection purposes
or the installation of a water line to a lake;
   (C)   Expansion of pre-existing, non-native ornamental vegetation such as
lawns;
   (D)   Dumping, piling, or disposal of refuse, yard debris, or other
material; and
   (E)   Application of chemicals such as herbicides, pesticides, and
fertilizers unless applied in accordance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.171 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council shall be the approving authority for applications for
variances to the riparian corridor area provisions. The procedures of §§
155.465 through
155.470 shall be followed for approval of a variance, except that the variance
criteria of this section shall apply subject to the approval of the Department
of Stand Lands (DSL) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   (B)   Using a Type I process, the city will correct the location of the
wetland protection overlay zone when the applicant has shown that a mapping
error has occurred and the error has been verified by. Delineations verified by
DSL shall be used to automatically update and replace DCLWIRI mapping. No
formal variance application or comprehensive plan amendment is needed for map
corrections where DSL-approved delineations are provided.
   (C)   (1)   The Type III process and the procedures of §§
155.465 through
155.470 shall be followed for consideration of a hardship variance, except that
the variance criteria of this section shall apply in lieu of the variance
criteria at §§
155.465 through
155.470.
      (2)   The City Council will grant a variance to the provisions of this
section only when the applicant has shown that all of the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   Through application of any provisions of this subchapter, the
property has been rendered not buildable;
         (b)   The applicant has exhausted all other options available under
this subchapter to relieve the hardship;
         (c)   The proposed variance is the minimum variance necessary to
afford relief;
         (d)   No significant adverse impacts on water quality, erosion, or
slope stability will result from approval of this hardship variance, or these
impacts have been mitigated to the greatest extent possible; and
         (e)   Loss of vegetative cover shall be minimized.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
DESIGN STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.185 DESIGN STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The city’s development design standards are contained in both §§
155.050 through
155.053 and this section. See §§
155.280 through
155.286 for all processes used for land use decisions.
   (B)   All developments within the city must comply with the provisions set
forth in §§
155.200,
155.201,
155.215 through
155.217,
155.230 through
155.237, and
155.250 through
155.254.
   (C)   Each land use zone provides design standards that are specifically
tailored to the zone to address the impacts or characteristics of certain land
uses.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
§ 155.200 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that developments provide safe
and efficient access and circulation for pedestrians and vehicles.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.201 VEHICULAR ACCESS AND CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this section is to manage vehicle
access to development through a connected street system while preserving the
flow of traffic in terms of safety, street capacity, and efficiency. Access
shall be managed to maintain an adequate “level of service” and to maintain the
“functional classification” of streets, and will conform to the City Engineer’s
specifications.
      (1)   Level of service (LOS). A concept that is used to assess how well a
roadway system serves its current or projected needs. It measures traffic flow
quality as experienced by motor vehicle drivers and passengers.
      (2)   Functional classification.
         (a)   A street classification system that describes streets according
to their purpose and capacity.
         (b)   The roadway classification system for the city includes three
levels of roads: major collector, minor collector, and local roads.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to all streets within the city and
to all properties that abut these streets.
   (C)   Access permit required. Access to a public street requires an access
permit in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   (a)   Permits for access to city streets shall be subject to review
and approval by the Planning Commission based on the standards contained in
this section, and the provisions of §
155.231.
         (b)   The Planning Official may request comments from the city’s
Public Works Maintenance Supervisor or an application for an access permit.
      (2)   (a)   Access to state highways shall be subject to review and
approval by the State Department of Transportation (ODOT), except when ODOT has
delegated this responsibility to the city or the county.
         (b)   In that case, the city or county shall determine whether access
is granted based on its adopted standards.
   (D)   Traffic study requirements.
      (1)   The city, after review by the City Engineer, or other road
authority with jurisdiction, may require a traffic impact study (TIS) as part
of an application for development, a change in use, or a change in access. A
TIS shall be required when a land use application involves one or more of the
following actions:
         (a)   A change in zoning or a plan amendment designation;
         (b)   Any proposed development or land use action that a road
authority states may have operational or safety concerns along its facility
(ies);
         (c)   An increase in site traffic volume generation by 300 average
daily trips (ADT) or more;
         (d)   An increase in peak hour volume of a particular movement to and
from the state highway by 20% or more;
         (e)   An increase in use of adjacent streets by vehicles exceeding the
20,000 pound gross vehicle weights by ten vehicles or more per day;
         (f)   The location of the access driveway does not meet minimum sight
distance requirements, or is located where vehicles entering or leaving the
property are restricted, or such vehicles queue or hesitate on the state
highway, creating a safety hazard; or
         (g)   A change in internal traffic patterns that may cause safety
problems, such as back up onto a street or greater potential for traffic
accidents.
      (2)   A traffic impact study must be prepared by an engineer currently
licensed by the state, in consultation with the State Department of
Transportation’s (ODOT) regional development review planner and O.A.R. Chapter
734, Division 51, and applicable O.A.R. statutes.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. The city may require the closing or
consolidation of existing curb cuts or other vehicle access points, recording
of reciprocal access easements (that is, for shared driveways), development of
a frontage street, installation of traffic control devices, and/or other
mitigation as a condition of granting an access permit.
   (F)   Access options.
      (1)   General. When vehicle access is required for development (that is,
for off-street parking, delivery service, drive-through facilities, and the
like), access shall be provided by one of the following methods (a minimum of
ten feet per lane is required). These methods are “options” to the developer/
subdivider, unless one method is specifically required by §§
155.050 through
155.053.
         (a)   Option 1. Access is from an existing or proposed alley or mid
block lane. If a property has access to an alley, direct access to a public
street is not permitted.
         (b)   Option 2.
            1.   Access is from a private street or driveway connected to an
adjoining property that has direct access to a public street (that is, shared
driveways).
            2.   An access easement covering the driveway shall be recorded in
this case to assure access to the closest public street for all users of the
private street/drive.
         (c)   Option 3.
            1.   Access is from a public street adjacent to the development
parcel. The owner/developer may be required to close or consolidate an existing
access point as a condition of approving a new access.
            2.   Street accesses shall comply with the access spacing standards
in division (G) below.
   (2)   Subdivisions fronting onto an arterial street. New residential land
divisions fronting onto an arterial street shall be required to provide alleys
(local or collector) and streets for access to individual lots.
   (3)   Double-frontage lots. When a lot has frontage onto two or more
streets, access shall be provided first from the street with the lowest
classification.
   (4)   Flag lots. In all land divisions, flag lots are only allowed through a
variance process. The Planning Commission and City Council may approve flag
lots at their discretion.
   (G)   Access spacing. Driveway accesses shall be separated from other
driveways and street intersections in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Local streets. A minimum of 50 feet separation (as measured from
the near sides of the street) shall be required on local streets, except as
provided in division (G)(3) below.
      (2)   Arterial and collector streets. Access spacing on collector and
arterial streets, and at controlled intersections (that is, with four-way stop
signs or traffic signal) shall be determined based on the policies and
standards provided by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Special provisions for all streets. Direct street access may be
restricted for some land uses, in conformance with the provisions of §§
155.050 through
155.053.
   (H)   Number of access points. For single-family, two-family, and three-
family housing types, two street access points are permitted per lot if they
maintain a 50-foot separation. The number of street access points for multi-
family, commercial, industrial, and public/institutional developments shall be
minimized to protect the function, safety and operation of the street(s) and
sidewalk(s) for all users.
   (I)   Shared driveways.
      (1)   Shared driveways and frontage streets. Shared driveways are
allowed.
      (2)   Access easements. Access easements must be recorded as a condition
of final plat approval.
   (J)   Street access.
      (1)   A lot capable of future division and greater than five acres shall
be created only if it fronts a street for at least 60 feet.
      (2)   A driveway shall serve a maximum of four tax lots.
      (3)   In the Community Commercial Zone, access to and from off-street
parking areas shall be designed to prevent backing onto a public street.
      (4)   Existing non-conforming accesses and parking lots shall be brought
into conformance when expanded or redeveloped more than 75%.
   (K)   Driveway standards and fire access. To construct or modify a driveway
on a lot where any portion of any existing or proposed structure is 150 feet or
more away from a public street, a fire-access street approval issued by the
Siuslaw Valley Fire Marshal is required prior to issuance of a building permit
or at the time of an application for a tentative plan.
      (1)   Pursuant to Chapter 90, all driveways shall meet the following
standards as a minimum:
         (a)   Single driveways shall have at least a 12-foot running surface
width;
         (b)   A driveway on a two-, three-, or four-lot shared easement shall
have at least a 30-foot width and be constructed with no less than a 12-foot
asphalt or concrete running surface with four feet of rocked shoulders. The
easement shall be at least 30 feet wide plus any additional width needed to
support the driveway surface and any required fill;
         (c)   Each driveway accessing a street shall have at the intersection
with the street running surface, an asphalt or concrete pad at least eight feet
in length and as wide as the running surface of the driveway plus an approach
radius of ten feet on each side; and
         (d)   To ensure proper stormwater management, any driveway with a
slope in excess of 10% shall be designed by an engineer licensed by the state.
      (2)   If any lot or parcel that shares a driveway meets the requirements
for further division and exceeds five acres, the driveway easement shall be a
minimum of 50 feet in width.
   (L)   Vertical clearances. Driveways, private streets, aisles, turn-around
areas, and ramps shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 14 feet for their
entire length and width.
   (M)   Vision clearance.
      (1)   (a)   A vision clearance area must be maintained on the corners of
all property adjacent to the intersection of two streets, an alley and street
or a driveway providing access to a street.
            1.   The clear vision area is a triangle established across the
corner of property adjacent to intersections of public or private streets or
alleys and at intersections of driveways and streets.
            2.   The two legs of the clear vision triangle are each measured
from the point of intersection with the roadway.
            3.   Measurements along a driveway are taken at the edge of the
roadway.
         (b)   1.   No signs, structures, vegetation, or other obstructions to
vision in excess of three and one-half feet in height are allowed in the vision
clearance area except street signs, posts or poles (for example, power, signal,
or luminaire poles).
            2.   Driveway approaches and driveways are not permitted within the
clear vision area.
      (2)   Minimum vision clearance setbacks (see also §§ 155.500 through
155.504) are as follows. These measurements define the clear vision areas.
 
Intersections at a Street Minimum Distance of Triangle Side
Alley                     10 ft.
Driveway                  10 ft.
Street                    25 ft.
 
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
VEHICLE AND BICYCLE PARKING
§ 155.215 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards for development of
vehicle and bicycle parking.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.216 VEHICLE PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required parking.
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                   Parking Spaces Required
                                      A maximum of five bedrooms for rent is
Bed and breakfast                     allowed and one off-street parking space
                                      is required for each bedroom rented
Business, professional and government One for every 250 sq. ft. of gross floor
offices                               area, plus one space per employee
                                      One space for every four fixed seats,
                                      every eight ft. of bench length, or every
Churches, clubs, lodges, and the like 28 sq. ft. in the main auditorium or
                                      place of worship where no permanent seats
                                      or benches are maintained
                                      Six and one-half spaces per practitioner,
Medical offices and clinics           one for every 150 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                      area, plus one space per employee
Motels                                One space per lodging unit, plus one
                                      space per employee
Restaurants                           One space per 200 sq. ft. of floor area,
                                      plus one space per employee
Retail, commercial establishments     One for every 300 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                      area, plus one space per employee
Single- or multi-family               Two off-street parking spaces per
                                      dwelling unit
 
   (B)   Parking requirements for uses not specified. The parking space
requirements for buildings and uses not set forth herein shall be determined by
the Planning Commission and such determination shall be based upon the
requirements for the most comparable building or use specified herein.
   (C)   Common facilities for mixed uses.
      (1)   Common facilities. In the case of mixed uses, the total
requirements for off-street parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements
for the various uses.
      (2)   Joint use of parking facilities. The Planning Commission may
authorize the joint use of parking facilities required by the mixed uses,
provided that:
         (a)   The applicant shows that there is no substantial conflict in the
principal operating hours of the building or use for which the joint use of
parking facilities are proposed;
         (b)   The parking facility for which joint use is proposed is no
further than 400 feet from the building or use required to have provided
parking; and
         (c)   1.   The parties concerned in the joint use of off-street
parking facilities shall show evidence of an agreement for such joint use by a
legal instrument approved by the City Attorney as to form and content.
            2.   Such instrument, when approved as conforming to the provisions
of this section, shall be recorded in the office of the City Recorder.
   (D)   Parking tables and diagrams.
      (1)   The parking area layout table in division (D)(2) below provides the
minimum dimensions of public or private parking areas based on the following
diagrams.
      (2)   Parking table.
Parking Area Layout Table
Standard Parking   Curb   Stall Depth   Aisle Width     Bay Width       Stripe
Space    Angle <° Length Single Single One-Way Two-Way One-Way Two-Way Length
                          D1     D2     A1      A2      B1      B2
Parking Area Layout Table
         Parking   Curb   Stall Depth   Aisle Width     Bay Width       Stripe
         Angle <° Length Single Single One-Way Two-Way One-Way Two-Way Length
                          D1     D2     A1      A2      B1      B2
Standard 90°      8’-618’  36’  23’   23’   59’   59’   18’
Space    60°      10’  20’  40’  17’   18’   57’   58’   23’
         45°      12’  18’-637’  13’   18’   50’   55’   26’-6”
         30°      17’  16’-633’  12’   18’   45’   51’   32-8”
         0°       22’  8’-617’  12’   18’   29’   35’   8’-6”
Notes to Table:
*   See division (G) for ADA space requirements
 
   (E)   Off-street loading.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (D) is to provide standards
for a minimum number of off-street loading spaces that will ensure adequate
loading areas for large uses and developments, and to ensure that the
appearance of loading areas is consistent with that of parking areas.
      (2)   Commercial, non-residential.
         (a)   Commercial or other non-residential buildings erected or
established which abut upon an alley or street shall have one permanently
maintained loading space for commercial vehicles of not less than ten feet in
width and 22 feet in length for each 2,000 square feet of lot area, or fraction
thereof, upon which the building is located.
         (b)   Provided, that not more than two such loading spaces shall be
required.
      (3)   Placement, setbacks, and landscaping.
         (a)   Loading areas shall conform to the setback standards in §§
150.050 through
155.053.
         (b)   Where parking areas are prohibited between a building and the
street, loading areas are also prohibited.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may approve a loading area adjacent to
or within the street right-of-way through site design review or a conditional
use permit review, as applicable, where it finds that loading and unloading
operations are short in duration (that is, less than one hour), do not obstruct
traffic during peak traffic hours, or interfere with emergency response
services.
   (G)   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      (1)   Parking shall be provided consistent with ADA requirements
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The minimum number of spaces for automobiles and van-accessible
spaces;
         (b)   Location of spaces relative to building entrances and accessible
routes between parking areas and building entrances; and
         (c)   Identification signs, lighting, and other design and
construction requirements.
      (2)   The following diagram illustrates the requirements for accessible
parking in regards to the standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.217 BICYCLE PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   Bicycle parking spaces shall be provided with new development and,
where a change of use occurs, at a minimum, shall follow the standards in the
table below.
      (2)   Where an application is subject to conditional use permit approval
or the applicant has requested a reduction to an automobile parking standard,
the Planning Commission may require bicycle parking spaces in addition to those
in the table below.
 
Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Use                                    Minimum Number of Spaces
                                       Two bike spaces per primary use or one
Commercial                             per five vehicle spaces, whichever is
                                       greater
Community Service                      Two bike spaces
Multi-family residential (not required
for parcels with fewer than four       Two bike spaces per four dwelling units
dwelling units)
                                       Two bike spaces per primary use or one
Other uses                             per ten vehicles spaces, whichever is
                                       greater
 
   (B)   Design. Bicycle parking shall consist of staple-design steel racks or
other city-approved racks, lockers, or storage lids providing a safe and secure
means of storing a bicycle.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to single-family and duplex housing or
home occupations.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may exempt other uses upon finding that,
due to the nature of the use or its location, it is unlikely to have any
patrons or employees arriving by bicycle.
   (D)   Hazards. Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians or vehicles, and shall be located so as to not conflict with the
vision clearance standards of §§
155.201(M) and 155.504.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
PUBLIC FACILITIES STANDARDS
§ 155.230 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide planning and design
standards for public and private transportation facilities and utilities.
Streets are the most common public spaces, touching virtually every parcel of
land.
   (B)   Therefore, one of the primary purposes of this subchapter is to
provide standards for attractive and safe streets that accommodate vehicle
traffic from planned growth, and provide a range of transportation options,
including options for driving, walking, and bicycling.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.231 TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Development standards. No development shall occur unless the
development has frontage or approved access to a public street, in conformance
with the provisions of §§
155.200 and
155.201, and the following standards are met.
      (1)   Streets within or adjacent to a development shall be improved in
accordance with the City Engineer’s current standards. These standards may be
amended by City Council resolution.
      (2)   Development of new streets, and additional street width or
improvements planned as a portion of an existing street, shall be improved in
accordance with this section, and public streets shall be dedicated to the
city.
      (3)   The city may accept a future improvement guarantee, performance
bond, or other agreement in lieu of street improvements.
   (B)   Variances. Variances to the transportation design standards in this
subchapter may be granted by means of a variance, as governed by §§
155.465 through
155.470.
   (C)   Creation of rights-of-way for streets and related purposes. Streets
shall be created through the approval and recording of a final subdivision or
partition plat. The city may approve the creation of a street by acceptance of
a deed. All other dedications shall be accepted by City Council resolution and
recorded before any improvements are performed by the city.
   (D)   Creation of access easements. The city may approve an access easement
established by deed when the easement is necessary to provide for access and
circulation in conformance with §§
155.200 and
155.201.
   (E)   Street location, width, and grade. Except as noted in division (F)
below, the location, width, and grade of all streets shall conform to the City
Engineer’s specifications.
   (F)   Minimum rights-of-way and street sections. Street rights-of-way and
improvements shall be the widths in the table below. A variance shall be
required in conformance with this section to vary the standards in the table
below.
Street Right-of-Way and Paving Widths
Type of Street Right-of-Way Width (ft.) Paving Width (ft.)
Street Right-of-Way and Paving Widths
Type of Street                     Right-of-Way Width (ft.) Paving Width (ft.)
All streets not specifically       60**                     40**
provided for above
Alleys, public or private          20**                     12**
Arterials                          60-120**                 24-48**
Collector streets and all business 60-80**                  24-44**
streets other than arterials
Cul-de-sacs                        92***                    70***
Local streets in single-family     50                       22
density
Notes to Table:
**   The city may required a width within the limits shown based upon adjacent
physical conditions, safety of the public, and the traffic needs of the
community, and in accordance with specifications of the City Engineer
***   Measured by diameter of circle constituting circular end
 
   (G)   Future street plan and extension of streets.
      (1)   (a)   A future street plan shall be filed by the applicant in
conjunction with an application for a partition, subdivision, or PUD in order
to facilitate orderly development of the street system.
         (b)   1.   The plan shall show the pattern of existing and proposed
future streets from the boundaries of the proposed land division, and shall
include other parcels within 600 feet surrounding and adjacent to the proposed
land division.
            2.   The street plan is not binding; rather, it is intended to show
potential future street extensions with future development.
      (2)   Streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the parcel or
tract to be developed when the Planning Commission determines that the
extension is necessary to give street access to, or permit a satisfactory
future division of, adjoining land. The point where the streets temporarily end
shall conform to divisions (G)(2)(a) through (G)(2)(c) below:
         (a)   These extended streets or street stubs to adjoining properties
are not considered to be cul-de-sacs since they are intended to continue as
through streets when the adjoining property is developed.
         (b)   A barricade (for example, fence, bollards, boulders, or similar
vehicle barrier) shall be constructed at the end of the street by the
subdivider and shall not be removed until authorized by the city or other
applicable agency with jurisdiction over the street.
         (c)   Temporary turnarounds (for example, hammerhead or circular
configuration) shall be constructed for stub streets over 150 feet in length.
   (H)   Street alignment and connections. Street alignment and connections
shall be constructed to the specifications of the City Engineer.
   (I)   Sidewalks, planter strips, bicycle lanes. Sidewalks, planter strips,
and bicycle lanes shall be constructed to the specifications of the City
Engineer.
   (J)   Intersection angles. Intersection angles shall be constructed to the
specifications of the City Engineer.
   (K)   Existing rights-of-way. Whenever existing rights-of-way adjacent to or
within a tract are of less than standard width, additional rights-of-way shall
be provided at the time of subdivision or development.
   (L)   Dead-end streets. Dead-end streets shall be constructed to the
specifications of the City Engineer.
   (M)   Curbs, curb cuts, ramps, and driveway approaches. Concrete curbs, curb
cuts, wheelchair and bicycle ramps, and driveway approaches shall be
constructed to the specifications of the City Engineer.
   (N)   Development adjoining arterial streets. Development adjoining arterial
streets shall be constructed to the specifications of the City Engineer.
   (O)   Alleys, public or private. Alleys, public or private, shall be
constructed to the specifications of the City Engineer.
   (P)   Street names. No street name shall be used without prior approval by
the county.
   (Q)   Survey monuments. Upon completion of a street improvement and prior to
acceptance by the city, it shall be the responsibility of the developer’s
registered professional land surveyor to provide certification to the city that
all boundary and interior monuments have been reestablished and protected.
   (R)   Street signs. 
      (1)   The city, county, or state with jurisdiction shall install all
signs for traffic control and street names.
      (2)   The cost of signs required for new development shall be the
responsibility of the developer.
      (3)   Street name signs shall be installed at all street intersections.
   (S)   Mailboxes. Placement of mailboxes shall be approved by the United
States Postal Service.
   (T)   Street light standards. Street lights shall be installed to the
specifications of the City Engineer.
   (U)   Standards for asphalt or concrete pavement. Standards for asphalt or
concrete pavements shall be set by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.232 PUBLIC USE AREAS.
   City parks, playgrounds, or other public use areas shown in a plan adopted
by the city is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the city may
require dedication of this area on the final plat.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.233 SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SERVICE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Water supply. All lots shall be served by a state-approved water
supply.
   (B)   Sewer. All lots shall be served by a sewage system that conforms to
City, County, and State Department of Environmental Quality standards.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.234 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground utilities. All utility lines including, but not limited
to, those required for electric, communication, lighting, and cable television
services and related facilities shall be placed underground, except for
surface-mounted transformers, surface-mounted connection boxes, and meter
cabinets temporary utility service facilities during construction, and high
capacity electric lines operating at 50,000 volts or above, which may be placed
aboveground. The following additional standards apply to all new partitions,
subdivisions, PUDs, and commercial development in order to facilitate
underground placement of utilities.
      (1)   The developer shall make all necessary arrangements with the
serving utility to provide the underground services. Aboveground equipment
shall not obstrnct vision clearance areas for vehicular traffic. (See §
155.201(M).)
      (2)   The city reserves the right to approve the location of all surface-
mounted facilities.
      (3)   All underground utilities, including sanitary sewers and storm
drains installed in streets by the developer, shall be constructed prior to the
surfacing of the streets.
      (4)   Stubs for service connections shall be long enough to avoid
disturbing the street improvements when service connections are made.
      (5)   All electric meters and water meters serving one lot shall be
located within the boundaries of the lot served. Exceptions to this rule will
be processed according to the provisions of §§
155.465 through
155.470. All water meters shall be located in an easily accessible and visible
location between the pump and the water treatment system on the outside of any
structures pursuant to §
51.08. Any electric meters or water meters that the developer may wish to
locate and install in a city right-of-way will be avoided or be subject to
review and approval according to the provisions of §§
155.465 through
155.470.
   (B)   Easements. Easements shall be provided for all utility facilities.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.235 PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements shall be dedicated on a final plat, or provided for
in the deed restrictions.
   (B)   The city’s standard width for utility easements shall be ten feet,
unless otherwise specified by the utility company or City Engineer.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.236 CONSTRUCTION PLAN APPROVAL.
   No public improvements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, streets, sidewalks, curbs, lighting, parks, or other requirements
shall be undertaken except after the plans have been approved by the city,
permit fee paid, and permit issued.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.237 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Conformance required. Improvements installed by the developer either
as a requirement of these regulations or at his or her own option, shall
conform to the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Installation standards. Installation standard(s) may be provided by
the City Engineer during the pre-application conference.
   (C)   Commencement. Work shall not begin until the city has issued the
required permits.
   (D)   City inspection. Improvements shall be inspected during construction
to the satisfaction of the city. Modifications requested by the developer shall
be subject to land use review under §§
155.370 through
155.372. Any monuments that are disturbed before all improvements are completed
by the subdivider shall be replaced by a surveyor licensed by the state prior
to final acceptance of the improvements.
   (E)   Engineer’s certification and as-built plans.
      (1)   An engineer registered in the state shall provide written
certification in a form required by the city. All improvements, workmanship,
and materials shall conform to approved plans and conditions of approval.
      (2)   These conditions shall be met prior to city acceptance of the
public improvements, or any portion thereof, for operation and maintenance. The
developer’s engineer shall also provide sets of “as-built” plans.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
SOLAR ACCESS
§ 155.250 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city encourages the implementation and use of solar power. The
protection of land for solar access will be with a solar energy easement that
runs with the property.
   (B)   No person conveying or contracting to convey fee title to real
property shall include in an instrument for such purpose a provision
prohibiting the use of solar energy systems by any person on that property.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.251 GENERAL.
   (A)   Within the jurisdiction of the city, provision for solar access is
made by solar energy easements. Such easements:
      (1)   Will protect the line of sight between a solar collector and sun
from blockage or impairment during daylight hours at any time of year;
      (2)   Will specifically define the criteria for solar access for each
easement; and
      (3)   Will be recorded with the county as an easement to the solar
collector location relative to affected lots.
   (B)   For developed property, or lot line adjustments, this will be the sole
responsibility of the land owners involved.
   (C)   (1)   For partitions or subdivisions, this will be the responsibility
of the developer and will be defined by a solar access plan provided to the
city at the time of the application for the partition or subdivision.
      (2)   Such plan will at least show the easement or easements layout on
the preliminary and final plat maps.
   (D)   The city will not grant any solar energy easement over public
property.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.252 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSTRUMENT. A deed, contract, covenant, condition, permit, or order that
creates an access right to sunlight.
   SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. Any easement, covenant, or conditions designed to
ensure the passage of incident solar radiation, light, air, or heat across the
real property of another.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. Any device, structure, mechanism, or series of
mechanisms which uses solar radiation as a source for heating, cooling, or
electrical energy.
   SOLAR ENVELOPE. A three-dimensional space over a lot representing height
restrictions for structures and vegetation on the lot designed to protect
access to sunlight for neighboring lots.
   SUN CHART.
      (1)   A representation showing the plotted position of the sun.
      (2)   The CHART shall display the path of the sun during each hour of the
day and each month of the year at the nearest degree of latitude to the
property.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.253 SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT APPURTENANT; TERMINATION.
   (A)   A solar energy easement shall be appurtenant to and run with the real
property benefitted and burdened by such an easement.
   (B)   A solar energy easement shall terminate:
      (1)   Upon the conditions stated therein;
      (2)   By judgment of a court based upon abandonment or changed
conditions; or
      (3)   At any time by agreement of all owners of property benefitted and
burdened by the easement.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.254 REQUIREMENTS FOR EASEMENT CREATION BY INSTRUMENT; RECORDATION.
   (A)   Any instrument creating a solar energy easement or any other access
right to sunlight shall contain:
      (1)   A legal description of the real property benefitted and burdened by
the easement; and
      (2)   A description of the solar energy easement sufficient to determine
the space over the burdened property which must remain unobstructed by means
that shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A sun chart showing the plotted skyline, including vegetation
and structures from the perspective of the center of the lower edge of the
collector surface, and a drawing showing the size and location of the collector
surface being protected and its orientation with respect to the true south; or
         (b)   A description of the solar envelope sufficient to determine the
space over the burdened property that must remain unobstructed.
   (B)   (1)   The instrument creating a solar energy easement or any other
access right to sunlight shall be recordable under O.R.S. 93.710.
      (2)   The instrument shall be recorded in the chains of title of the
benefitted and burdened properties as a transfer of the easement or access
right from the owner of the burdened property to the owner of the benefitted
property.
   (C)   An instrument creating a solar energy easement shall be indexed when
recorded by the name of the city and the names of all parties with any interest
in the real property benefitted or burdened by the easement.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION OF LAND USE, DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 155.265 ADMINISTRATION OF LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Sections 155.280 through 155.286, 155.300 through 155.311, 155.325 through
155.330, 155.345 through 155.355, 155.370 through 155.372, 155.385 through
155.389, 155.400, 155.401, 155.415 through 155.417, and 155.430 through 155.438
provides the application requirements and procedures for obtaining permits
required by this chapter. Refer to the table in §
155.281(B) to determine which procedures apply to a particular type of land use
permit application.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
TYPES OF APPLICATIONS AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 155.280 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standard decision-making
procedures that enable the city, the applicant, and the public to reasonably
review applications and participate in the local decision-making process in a
timely and effective way.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.281 DESCRIPTION OF PERMIT/DECISION MAKING PROCEDURES.
   All land use and development applications, except permits required in
Chapters
151,
153, and
154 are decided by using the procedures contained in this subchapter. General
provisions for all permits are contained in §
155.282. Specific procedures for certain types of permits are contained §§
155.283 through
155.286. The procedure “type” assigned to each permit governs the decision-
making process for that permit.
   (A)   Procedure types. There are four types of permit/decision-making
procedures: Type I, II, III, and IV. These procedures are described in
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) below. The table in division (B) below list
most of the city’s land use and development applications and their required
permit procedures.
      (1)   Type I procedure (ministerial).
         (a)   Type I decisions are made by the Planning Official, or his or
her designee, without public notice and without a public hearing.
         (b)   The Type I decisions apply clear and objective approval criteria
to an application. Instead of Type I procedures, the Planning Official may
refer any application for a Type I decision to the Planning Commission for
review using the Type II process.
      (2)   Type II procedure (quasi-judicial). Type II decisions are made by
the Planning Commission after public notice and an opportunity to submit
written testimony without a public hearing, An appeal of a Type II decision is
heard by the City Council with a public hearing. Type II decisions generally
apply discretionary approval criteria to an application for development.
      (3)   Type III procedure (quasi-judicial). Type III decisions are
considered initially for a recommendation by the Planning Commission with a
final decision made by the City Council. Both bodies provide public notice and
a hearing. Type III decisions generally apply discretionary approval criteria
to an application for development.
      (4)   Type IV procedure (legislative).
         (a)   Type IV decisions are considered initially for a recommendation
by the Planning Commission with final decisions made by the City Council.
         (b)   Both bodies provide public notice and a hearing.
         (c)   Type IV decisions generally involve the creation, revision, or
large-scale implementation of public policy (for example, adoption of land use
regulations, zone changes, and Comprehensive Plan amendments that apply to a
large number of properties or entire zones).
   (B)   Development/use permit procedures table.
Summary of Development/Use Permit by Type of Review Procedure*
Summary of Development/Use Permit by Type of Review Procedure*
Access permit                                   Type II       §
                                                              155.201
                                                              §§
Code amendments                                 Type III/IV   155.400,
                                                              155.401
                                                              §§
Conditional use permit                          Type III      155.325 through
                                                              155.330
Conditional use permit: review/renewal          Type I/II/III 155.328
Determination of zone boundaries                Type II       §
                                                              155.052
Home occupation permit                          Type I        §
                                                              155.416
                                                              §§
Land use zone map amendments                    Type III/IV   155.385 through
                                                              155.389
Partition: final plat                           Type II       §
                                                              155.286
Partition: tentative plan                       Type II       §
                                                              155.301
PUD: final plat                                 Type II       §
                                                              155.351
PUD: tentative plan                             Type III      §
                                                              155.350
                                                              §§
Sign permit                                     Type I        155.079 and
                                                              155.102
Subdivision: final plat                         Type II       §
                                                              155.306
Subdivision: tentative plan                     Type II       §
                                                              155.301
Temporary use permits                           Type I/II     §
                                                              155.415
Recreational vehicle (RV) parks: final plan     Type II       §
                                                              155.436
Recreational vehicle (RV) parks: tentative plan Type III      §
                                                              155.433
Recreational and vacation of plats              Type II       §
                                                              155.310
Residential care facility: plan review          Type I        §
                                                              155.067
                                                              §§
Variances                                       Type III      155.465 through
                                                              155.470
Notes to Table:
*   The sections referenced in this table describe the type of land uses and
development activity that require permits under this chapter. The applicant may
be required to obtain building permits and other approvals or permits not
regulated by this chapter. The city’s failure to notify the applicant of any
other requirements of other city code provisions or other agencies shall not
invalidate a permit or decision made by the city under this chapter.
 
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.282 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   One hundred twenty day rule. The city shall take final action on Type
II and Type III applications within 120 days from the date the application is
deemed complete unless additional time is allowed consistent with state law.
   (B)   Time computation. In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed by this chapter, the day of the act or event from which the designated
period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period
so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday or legal holiday,
including Sunday, in which event, the period runs until the end of the next day
which is not a Saturday or legal holiday.
   (C)   Pre-application conferences.
      (1)   Participants. When a pre-application conference is required or
otherwise applied for, the applicant shall meet with the City Planning
Official, or his or her designee(s), and other parties as appropriate.
      (2)   Information provided by the applicant. The applicant is required to
submit the following information at least ten days prior to the date of such
meeting:
         (a)   A written statement setting forth:
            1.   The name and address of the applicant;
            2.   A statement of the applicant’s legal interest in the property
(owner, contract purchaser, lessee, renter, and the like), a description of
that interest, and, in case the applicant is not the owner, that the owner
knows of the application;
            3.   The map and tax lot number(s) of the property; and
            4.   A statement explaining the intended request.
         (b)   Any other materials or information the applicant wishes to
submit. For example, these materials might consist of a schematic development
plan of the proposed development, showing:
            1.   The general location of the proposed development;
            2.   Existing physical and natural features, such as watercourses,
rock outcroppings, and marshes;
            3.   The location of existing drainage ways and utilities;
            4.   The location and names of public streets, parks, and utility
rights-of-way within or adjacent to the proposed development;
            5.   The general location and dimensions of proposed streets,
driveways, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, trails, off-street parking, and loading
areas;
            6.   The general location and approximate dimensions of proposed
structures;
            7.   Proposed landscaping features;
            8.   Approximate contours;
            9.   Sketches showing the scale, character, and relationship of
buildings, streets, and open space;
            10.   The approximate location and type of proposed drainage,
water, and sewerage facilities; and
            11.   Site evaluation for solar access potential.
      (3)   Information provided by the city. At such conference, the City
Planning Official or designee will:
         (a)   Cite the zoning map designations applicable to the proposal;
         (b)   Cite the ordinance provisions, including substantive and
procedural requirements that are applicable to the proposal, based on the
information provided by the applicant;
         (c)   Provide available technical data and assistance that will aid
the applicant;
         (d)   Identify other governmental policies and regulations that relate
to the application; and
         (e)   Reasonably identify other opportunities or constraints
concerning the application.
      (4)   Disclaimer. Failure of the City Planning Official, or his or her
designee, to provide any of the information required by division (C)(3) above
shall not constitute a waiver of any of the standards, criteria, or
requirements for the application.
      (5)   Changes in the law. Due to possible changes in federal, state,
regional, and local law, the applicant is responsible for ensuring that the
application complies with all applicable laws on the day the application is
deemed complete.
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Initiation of applications.
         (a)   Applications for approval under this chapter may be initiated
by:
            1.   The City Council;
            2.   The Planning Commission;
            3.   The Planning Official; and
            4.   Except for Type IV application categories, a record owner of
property (person(s) whose name is on the most recently recorded deed) or
contract purchaser with written permission from the record owner. Such persons
are encouraged to appear before the Planning Commission or the City Council to
request initiation of Type IV applications.
         (b)   Any person authorized to submit an application for approval may
designate a representative, authorized in writing, to make the application on
his or her behalf.
      (2)   Check for acceptance and completeness. In reviewing an application
for completeness, the following procedure shall be used:
         (a)   Essential items. When the city receives an application from a
record owner of property or contract purchaser (as described in division (D)(1)
(a) above), the Planning Official shall immediately determine whether the
following essential items are present. If the following items are not present,
the application shall not be accepted and shall be immediately returned to the
applicant:
            1.   The required form;
            2.   The required fee; and/or
            3.   The signature of a record owner of property or contract
purchaser (as described in division (D)(1)(a) above) on the required form,
including written authorization designating a representative to make the
application on the applicant’s behalf.
         (b)   Completeness.
            1.   After the application is accepted, the Planning Official shall
review the application for completeness in accordance with the application
submittal requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the Planning Official determines that the application
contains sufficient information for review, the city shall advise the applicant
in writing that the application is deemed complete and begin the application
review process.
            3.   If the application is incomplete, the Planning Official shall
notify the applicant in writing of exactly what information is missing within
30 days of receipt of the application. In this case, the city will begin review
of the application:
               a.   Upon receipt of all of the missing information requested by
the city;
               b.   Upon receipt of some of the missing information and a
written statement from the applicant indicating that none of the other missing
information will be provided, and requesting that the application be processed
without it, forcing the application to be deemed complete; or
               c.   Upon receipt of a written statement from the applicant
indicating that none of the missing information will be provided and requesting
that the application be processed without it, forcing the application to be
deemed complete.
            4.   On the one hundred eighty-first day after being accepted by
the city, the application will be void if the applicant has been notified of
missing information and has no complied with divisions (D)(2)(b)3.a. through
(D)(2)(b)3.c. above.
            5.   Approval or denial of the application shall be based upon the
standards and criteria that were applicable at the time the application was
first accepted.
   (E)   Planning Official’s duties. The Planning Official shall maintain and
preserve the file for each application for the time period required by law. The
file shall include, as applicable, a list of persons given notice and a copy of
the notice given; the affidavits of notice; the application and all supporting
information; the staff report; the final decision, including the findings,
conclusions, and conditions, if any; all correspondence; minutes of any meeting
at which the application was considered; and any other exhibit, information, or
documentation which was considered by the decision-maker(s) on the application.
   (F)   Corrected decision. Notice of a corrected decision shall be given
using the same mailing and distribution list as for the original decision
notice.
   (G)   Re-submittal of application following denial. An application which has
been denied and is no longer subject to appeal may not be re-submitted as the
same or a substantially similar proposal for the same land for a period of at
least 12 months from the date of the final city action is made denying the
application.
   (H)   Americans with Disabilities Act. All public meeting notices shall
comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.283 TYPE I PROCEDURE (MINISTERIAL).
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Type I applications shall be made on forms
provided by the Planning Official.
      (2)   Application requirements. Type I applications shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form, §
155.282(D), and any provisions of this chapter that pertain specifically to the
type of application submitted;
         (b)   Address the criteria in sufficient detail for review and action;
and
         (c)   Be accompanied by the required fee.
   (B)   Ministerial decision requirements. The Planning Official will issue a
decision addressing all of the approval criteria. Based on the criteria and the
facts contained with the record, the Planning Official shall approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the requested permit or action. In the alternative,
the Planning Official may refer the application to the Planning Commission for
its review and action using Type II procedures. A written record of the
decision shall be provided to the applicant and kept on file at the City Hall.
   (C)   Final decision. The Planning Official’s decision shall become final 14
calendar days after the date it is mailed or otherwise provided to the
applicant in writing, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.284 TYPE II PROCEDURE (QUASI-JUDICIAL).
   (A)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference shall be
required for all Type II applications.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application forms. Type II application shall be made on forms
provided by the Planning Official.
      (2)   Submittal information. The application shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form, §
155.282(D), and any provisions of this chapter that pertain specifically to the
type of application submitted;
         (b)   Be filed with a narrative statement that explains how the
application satisfies each of the relevant criteria in sufficient detail for
review and action;
         (c)   Be accompanied by the required fee; and
         (d)   Include an impact statement for achieving compliance with all of
the city codes relating to transportation systems, wetlands, riparian areas and
shorelands. (See §§
155.145 through
155.154,
155.165 through
155.171,
155.117, and
155.231.)
   (C)   Notice of application.
      (1)   Before a Type II decision is made, the city shall mail notice to:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   All owners of record of real property within 300 feet of the
subject site; and
         (c)   Any government agency that has entered into an intergovernmental
agreement with the city that includes provisions for such notice, or that is
otherwise entitled to such notice.
      (2)   The notice of a pending Type II decision shall:
         (a)   Provide a 14-day period for submitting written comments before a
decision is made on the application;
         (b)   List the relevant approval criteria by commonly used citation;
         (c)   State the place, date, and time the comments are due;
         (d)   Include the name and telephone number of a city contact person
regarding the decision;
         (e)   Identify the specific permits or approvals requested;
         (f)   Describe the street address or other geographic description of
the property proposed for development;
         (g)   State that issues which may provide the basis for an appeal
shall be raised in writing prior to the expiration of the comment period and
that issues must be raised with sufficient specificity to enable the Planning
Commission to respond;
         (h)   Briefly summarize the decision-making process; and
         (i)   State that copies of all evidence relied upon by the applicant
are available for review, and that copies can be obtained at cost.
   (D)   Americans with Disabilities Act. All public meeting notices shall
comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (E)   Planning Commission decision. The Planning Commission shall convene to
consider the application and written testimony received during the 14-day
period described in the mailed notice. The Planning Commission shall deliberate
and issue a written decision addressing all of the relevant approval criteria.
Based upon the criteria, and the facts contained within the record, the
Planning Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
requested permit or action.
   (F)   Notice of Planning Commission decision.
      (1)   Within five business days after the Planning Commission decision is
signed, a notice of decision shall be sent by mail to:
         (a)   All owners of record of real property within 300 feet of the
subject property;
         (b)   The applicant; and
         (c)   Any person who submitted comments for the Planning Commission’s
consideration.
      (2)   The Type II notice of decision shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the applicant’s proposal and the use or uses
which could be authorized;
         (b)   The street address or other geographic description of the
property proposed for development:
         (c)   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or on behalf of the applicant, the applicable criteria,
and the city’s decision are available for inspection at no cost, and copies
will be provided at cost;
         (d)   The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed;
         (e)   A statement that all persons entitled to notice or who are
otherwise adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision may appeal the
decision as provided in division (H) below, and may not appeal directly to the
State Land Use Board of Appeals; and
         (f)   A statement briefly explaining how an appeal can be filed, the
deadline for filing an appeal, the name of a city representative to contact,
and telephone number and where further information can be obtained concerning
the appeal process.
   (G)   Final decision and effective date. The Planning Commission’s decision
is final for purposes of appeal when it is mailed by the city. It is effective
on the day after the local appeal period expires with no valid appeal filed.
   (H)   Appeal of a Type II Planning Commission decision. The Planning
Commission’s decision may be appealed to the City Council as follows:
      (1)   Who may appeal. The following people have legal standing to appeal
the Planning Commission’s decision:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   Any person who was mailed written notice of the Planning
Commission’s decision;
         (c)   Any person who is adversely affected or aggrieved by the
Planning Commission’s decision; or
         (d)   Any other person who participated in the proceeding by
submitting written comments.
      (2)   Notice of appeal.
         (a)   Time for filing. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the city
by 5:00 p.m. on the fourteenth day after the notice of decision was mailed.
         (b)   Content of notice of appeal. The notice of appeal shall contain:
            1.   The appeal form provided by the city;
            2.   An identification of the Planning Commission decision being
appealed, including the date of the decision;
            3.   A statement demonstrating the person filing the notice of
appeal has standing to appeal; and
            4.   The filing fee.
      (3)   Notice of City Council hearing.
         (a)   Notice. The city shall give notice of the City Council hearing
in the following manner:
            1.   At least 20 days before the hearing date, notice shall be
mailed to:
               a.   The applicant and all owners of record of the property
which is the subject of the application;
               b.   All property owners of record within 300 feet of the site;
               c.   The appellant and persons who provided testimony during the
Planning Commission’s proceedings; and
               d.   For a zoning change affecting a manufactured home or mobile
home park, all mailing addresses within the park, in accordance with O.R.S.
227.175(8).
            2.   At least 14 days before the first hearing, notice of the City
Council hearing shall be printed in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city; and
            3.   At least 14 days before the hearing, the applicant shall post
notice of the hearing on the property.
         (b)   Content of notice.
            1.   Notice to be mailed per division (H)(3)(a) above shall contain
the following information:
               a.   The nature of the application and the proposed land use or
uses which could be authorized for the property;
               b.   The criteria from the development code that apply to the
application;
               c.   The street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
               d.   The date, time, and location of the public hearing;
               e.   A statement that the failure to raise an issue in person,
or by letter, or failure to provide statements or evidence sufficient to afford
the decision-maker an opportunity to respond to the issue, means that an appeal
based on that issue cannot be filed with the State Land Use Board of Appeals;
               f.   The name of a city representative to contact and the
telephone number where additional information on the application may be
obtained;
               g.   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents
and evidence submitted by or for the applicant, and the applicable criteria and
standards can be reviewed at City Hall at no cost, and that copies will be
provided at reasonable cost;
               h.   A statement that a copy of the city’s staff report will be
available for review at no cost at least seven days before the hearing, and
that a copy will be provided on request at reasonable cost; and
               i.   A general explanation of the requirements to submit
testimony, and the procedure for conducting public hearings.
            2.   All public meeting notices shall comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
      (4)   City Council standard of review and conduct of the public hearing.
The City Council shall determine whether the application is consistent with the
applicable criteria or can be made consistent through the imposition of
reasonable conditions. The City Council shall accept new evidence with respect
to all applicable criteria. The City Council shall conduct its public hearing
as the first evidentiary hearing, consistent with the provisions at §
155.285(D).
      (5)   City Council decision. The City Council shall issue a final written
decision containing findings and conclusions, which either approves, approves
with specific conditions, or denies the application.
      (6)   Notice of City Council decision.
         (a)   Written notice of the City Council decision shall be mailed to
the applicant and to all participants of record within five business days after
the City Council’s decision. Failure of any person to receive mailed notice
shall not invalidate the decision.
         (b)   The notice shall include an explanation of appeal procedures.
      (7)   Final decision and effective date. The decision of the City Council
on any Type II application is effective and final for purposes of appeal on the
date the notice of decision is mailed by the city.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.285 TYPE III PROCEDURE (QUASI-JUDICIAL).
   (A)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference shall be
required for all Type III applications.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Type III applications shall be made on forms provided by the
Planning Official.
      (2)   Type III applications shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form, §
155.282(D), and any provisions of this chapter that pertain specifically to the
type of application submitted;
         (b)   Be file with a narrative statement that explains how the
application satisfies each and all of the relevant criteria in sufficient
detail for review and action;
         (c)   Be accompanied by the required fee; and
         (d)   Include an impact statement for achieving compliance with all
city code provisions relation to transportation systems, wetlands, riparian
areas, and shorelands. (See §§
155.145 through
155.154,
155.165 through
155.171,
155.117, and
155.231.)
   (C)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   A minimum of two hearings, one before the Planning Commission and
one before the City Council, is required for all Type III applications
submitted to the city.
      (2)   The Planning Official shall give notice of a Type III application
hearing in the following manner: At least 20 days before the hearing date,
notice shall be mailed to:
         (a)   The applicant and all owners or contract purchasers of record of
the property which is the subject of the application;
         (b)   All property owners of record within 300 feet of the property
which is the subject of the application;
         (c)   Any governmental agency which has entered into an
intergovernmental agreement with the city that includes provision for such
notice, or who is otherwise entitled to such notice;
         (d)   Any person who submits a written request to receive notice; and
         (e)   For a zoning change affecting a mobile home or manufactured home
park, all mailing addresses within the park.
      (3)   Notice of a Type III hearing to be mailed per division (C)(2) above
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The nature of the application and the proposed land use or uses,
which could be authorized for the property;
         (b)   The applicable criteria and standards from the development codes
(s) that apply to the application;
         (c)   The street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
         (d)   The date, time, and location of the public hearing;
         (e)   A statement that the failure to raise an issue in person, or by
letter at the hearing, or failure to provide statements or evidence sufficient
to afford the decision-maker an opportunity to respond to the issue, means that
an appeal based on that issue cannot be filed with the State Land Use Board of
Appeals;
         (f)   The name of a city representative to contact and the telephone
number where additional information on the application may be obtained;
         (g)   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or for the applicant, and the applicable criteria and
standards can be reviewed at the City Hall at no cost and that copies shall be
provided at a reasonable cost;
         (h)   A statement that a copy of the city’s staff report will be
available for review at City Hall at no cost at least seven days before the
hearing, and that a copy will be provided on request at reasonable cost; and
         (i)   A general explanation of the requirements to submit testimony,
and the procedure for conducting public hearings.
      (4)   All public meeting notices shall comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
      (5)   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate
the action.
   (D)   Conduct of the quasi-judicial public hearing.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in the rules of procedure adopted by the
City Council:
         (a)   The presiding officer of the Planning Commission and of the City
Council shall have the authority to:
            1.   Regulate the course, sequence, and decorum of the hearing;
            2.   Direct procedural requirements or similar matters; and
            3.   Impose reasonable time limits for oral presentations.
         (b)   No person shall address the Commission or the Council without:
            1.   Receiving recognition from the presiding officer; and
            2.   Stating their full name and city of residence and providing a
mailing address.
         (c)   Disruptive conduct such as applause, cheering, or display of
signs shall be cause for expulsion of a person or persons from the hearing,
termination or continuation of the hearing, or other appropriate action
determined by the presiding officer.
      (2)   At the commencement of the hearing, the presiding officer shall
state:
         (a)   The applicable approval criteria and standards that apply to the
application;
         (b)   Testimony and evidence must be directed toward the approval
criteria described in the staff report, or other criteria in the Comprehensive
Plan or land use regulations, which the person testifying believes to apply to
the decision;
         (c)   Failure to raise an issue with sufficient detail to give the
City Council or Planning Commission and the parties involved an opportunity to
respond to the issue precludes appeals on that issue; and
         (d)   If the hearing is the first evidentiary hearing, that before the
conclusion of the public hearing any participant may ask the City Council or
Planning Commission for an opportunity to present additional relevant evidence
or testimony that is within the scope of the hearing. The City Council or
Planning Commission shall grant the request by scheduling a date to finish the
hearing (a “continuance”) per division (D)(3) below, or by leaving the record
open for additional written evidence or testimony per division (D)(4) below.
      (3)   If the City Council or Planning Commission grants a continuance,
the completion of the hearing shall be continued to a date, time, and place at
least seven days after the date of the first evidentiary hearing. An
opportunity shall be provided at the second hearing for persons to present and
respond to new written evidence and oral testimony. If new written evidence is
submitted at the second hearing, any person may request, before the conclusion
of the second hearing, that the record be left open for at least seven days so
that they can submit additional written evidence or testimony in response to
the new written evidence.
      (4)   If the City Council or Planning Commission leaves the record open
for additional written evidence or testimony, the record shall be left open for
at least seven days after the hearing. Any participant may ask the city in
writing for an opportunity to respond to new evidence submitted during the
period the record was left open. If such a request is filed, the City Council
or Planning Commission shall reopen the record.
         (a)   When the City Council or Planning Commission reopens the record
to admit new evidence or testimony, any person may raise new issues that relate
to that new evidence or testimony.
         (b)   An extension of the hearing or record granted pursuant to
division (E) below is subject to the limitations of O.R.S. 227.178 (120-day
rule), unless the continuance or extension is requested or agreed to by the
applicant.
         (c)   1.   If requested by the applicant, the city shall allow the
applicant at least seven days after the record is closed to all other persons
to submit final written arguments in support of the application, unless the
applicant expressly waives this right.
            2.   The applicant’s final submittal shall be part of the record,
but shall not include any new evidence.
      (5)   (a)   The record shall contain all testimony and evidence that is
submitted to the city, the Planning Commission, and the City Council and not
rejected.
         (b)   The City Council or Planning Commission may take official notice
of judicially cognizable facts under the applicable law. If the review
authority takes official notice, it must announce its intention and allow
persons participating in the hearing to present evidence concerning the noticed
facts.
      (6)   Participants in a quasi-judicial hearing are entitled to an
impartial review authority as free from potential or actual conflicts of
interest and pre-hearing ex parte contacts (see division (D)(7) below) as
reasonably possible. However, the public has a countervailing right of free
access to public officials, therefore:
         (a)   A member of the Planning Commission or City Council shall not
participate in any proceeding which they, or any of the following, has a direct
or substantial financial interest: their spouse, brother, sister, child,
parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, partner, or any business in which they
are then serving or have served within the previous two years, or any business
with which they are negotiating for or have an arrangement or understanding
concerning prospective partnership or employment. Any actual or potential
conflict of interest shall be disclosed at the beginning of a public hearing
where an action is being taken;
         (b)   When met with a potential conflict of interest, the Planning
Commission or City Council member shall announce publicly the nature of the
potential conflict;
         (c)   When met with an actual conflict of interest, announce publicly
the nature of the actual conflict and:
            1.   Except as provided in division (D)(6)(c)2. below, refrain from
participating as a Planning Commissioner or City Council member in any
discussion or debate on the issue out of which the actual conflict arises or
from voting on the issue; and
            2.   If any Planning Commissioner’s or City Council member’s vote
is necessary to meet a requirement of a minimum number of votes to take
official action, be eligible to vote, but not to participate as a Planning
Commissioner or City Council member in any discussion or debate on the issue
out of which the actual conflict arises.
         (d)   1.   At the beginning of the public hearing, Planning Commission
and City Council members shall disclose the substance of any pre-hearing ex
parte contacts (defined in division (D)(7) below) concerning the issue under
consideration; and
            2.   He or she shall state whether the contact has impaired their
impartiality or their ability to vote on the matter, and shall participate or
abstain accordingly.
         (e)   At the beginning of the public hearing, Planning Commission and
City Council members shall disclose the substance of any pre-hearing ex parte
contacts (defined in division (D)(7) below) concerning the application or
appeal-issue under consideration. He or she shall state whether the contact has
impaired their impartiality or their ability to vote on the matter and shall
participate or abstain accordingly; and
         (f)   Disqualification of a member of the Planning Commission or City
Council due to contacts or conflict may be ordered by a motion by the members
present and voting. The person who is the subject of the motion may not vote on
the motion to disqualify.
      (7)   Ex parte communications.
         (a)   Members of the City Council and Planning Commission shall not:
            1.   Communicate, directly or indirectly, with any applicant,
appellant, other party to the proceedings, or representative of a party, about
any issue involved in a hearing, except upon giving notice, per division (D)(6)
above; or
            2.   Take official notice of any communication, report, or other
materials outside the record prepared by the proponents or opponents in
connection with the particular case, unless all participants are given the
opportunity to respond to the noticed materials.
         (b)   No decision or action of the City Council or Planning Commission
shall be invalid due to ex parte contacts or bias resulting from ex parte
contacts, if the person receiving contact:
            1.   Places in the record the substance of any written or oral ex
parte communications concerning the decision or action; and
            2.   Makes a public announcement of the content of the
communication and of all participants’ right to dispute the substance of the
communication made. This announcement shall be made at the first hearing
following the communication during which action shall be considered or taken on
the subject of the communication.
         (c)   A communication between city staff and the City Council or
Planning Commission is not considered an ex parte contact.
      (8)   Presenting and receiving evidence.
         (a)   The City Council and Planning Commission may set reasonable time
limits for oral presentations and may limit or exclude cumulative, repetitious,
irrelevant, or personally derogatory testimony or evidence.
         (b)   No oral testimony shall be accepted after the close of the
public hearing. Written testimony may be received after the close of the public
hearing only as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) above.
         (c)   Members of the City Council and Planning Commission may visit
the property and the surrounding area, and may use information obtained during
the site visit to support their decision, if the information relied upon is
disclosed at the hearing and an opportunity is provided to dispute the
evidence. In the alternative, a member of the City Council or Planning
Commission may visit the property to familiarize himself or herself with the
site and surrounding area, but not to independently gather evidence. In the
second situation, at the beginning of the hearing, he or she shall disclose the
circumstances of the site visit and shall allow all participants to ask about
the site visit.
   (E)   The Planning Commission recommendation process.
      (1)   Approval or denial of a Type III application shall be based on
standards and criteria in the Development Code.
      (2)   After the Planning Commission’s record has closed, the Planning
Commission shall convene to consider the application and written testimony
received. The Planning Commission shall deliberate and issue a written
recommendation addressing all of the relevant approval criteria. Based upon the
criteria and the facts contained within the record, the Planning Commission
shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the requested
permit or action.
   (F)   The City Council decision process.
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the City Council hearing on the
application, the Planning Official shall mail notice of the City Council
hearing as described in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) above.
      (2)   The City Council shall hold a public hearing as described in
division (D) above.
      (3)   After the City Council’s record has been closed, the City Council
shall convene to consider the application, the written testimony received, and
the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The City Council shall issue a final
written order containing the findings and conclusions which approves, approves
with specific conditions, or denies the requested permit or action.
      (4)   Written notice of a Type III decision shall be mailed to the
applicant and to all participants of record within ten business days after the
City Council’s decision. Failure of any person to receive mailed notice shall
not invalidate the decision, provided that a good faith attempt was made to
mail notice. The notice of decision shall include an explanation of appeal
rights and briefly summarize the decision-making process for the decision being
made.
      (5)   The decision of the City Council on any Type III application is
final for purposes of appeal on the date it is mailed by the city. The decision
is effective on the day after the appeal period expires.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.286 TYPE IV PROCEDURE (LEGISLATIVE).
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Except when initiated by the City Council, Type IV applications
shall be made on forms provided by the Planning Official.
      (2)   Except when initiated by the City Council, the application shall
contain:
         (a)   The information requested on the application form;
         (b)   A map and/or plan addressing the appropriate criteria and
standards in sufficient detail for review and decision (as applicable);
         (c)   The required fee; and
         (d)   Two copies of a letter or narrative statement that explains how
the application satisfies each and all of the relevant approval criteria and
standards.
   (B)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   A minimum of two hearings, one before the Planning Commission and
one before the City Council, are required for all Type IV applications.
      (2)   The Planning Official shall give notice of public hearings for the
request in the following manner:
         (a)   At least 20 days, but not more than 40 days, before the date of
the first hearing on an ordinance that proposes to amend the Comprehensive Plan
or any element thereof, or to adopt an ordinance that proposes to rezone
property, a notice shall be mailed to:
            1.   Each owner whose property would be rezoned in order to
implement the ordinance (for example, owners of property subject to a
Comprehensive Plan amendment shall be notified if a rezone would be required to
implement the proposed Comprehensive Plan amendment);
            2.   Any affected governmental agency;
            3.   Recognized neighborhood groups or associations affected by the
ordinance;
            4.   Any person who requests notice in writing; and
            5.   If an application would change the zone of property that
includes all or part of a mobile home or manufactured dwelling park, all
mailing addresses within the mobile home or manufactured dwelling park.
         (b)   At least 14 days before the scheduled Planning Commission public
hearing date, and 14 days before the City Council hearing date, notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
         (c)   The Planning Official shall:
            1.   For each mailing of notice provided in division (B)(2)(a)
above, file an affidavit of mailing in the record; and
            2.   For each published notice provided in division (B)(2)(a)
above, file an affidavit of publication in the record.
         (d)   The Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD) shall
be notified in writing of proposed Comprehensive Plan and Development Code
Amendments at least 35 days before the first public hearing at which public
testimony or new evidence will be received.
      (3)   The mailed and published notices shall include the following
information:
         (a)   The number and title of the file containing the application, and
the address and telephone number of the Planning Official’s office where
additional information about the application can be obtained;
         (b)   The identification of the tax map and lot and the street address
if applicable and available on the proposal;
         (c)   A description of the proposal in enough detail for people to
determine the nature of the change proposed;
         (d)   The time(s), place(s), and date(s) of the public hearing(s); a
statement that public oral or written testimony is invited; a statement that
the hearing will be held under this subchapter and rules of procedure adopted
by the Council and available at City Hall (see division (C) below); and written
testimony shall be submitted to the city at least 14 days prior to the hearing;
and
         (e)   Each mailed notice required by division (B)(2)(a) above shall
contain the following statement: “Notice to mortgagee, lien holder, vendor, or
seller: The Dunes City Development Code requires that if you receive this
notice it shall be promptly forwarded to the purchaser.”
      (4)   All public meeting notices shall comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
      (5)   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate
the action, providing:
         (a)   Personal notice is deemed given when the notice is deposited
with the United States Postal Service; and
         (b)   Published notice is deemed given on the date it is published.
   (C)   Hearing process and procedure.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in the rules of procedure adopted by the
City Council:
         (a)   The presiding officer of the Planning Commission and of the City
Council shall have the authority to:
            1.   Regulate the course, sequence, and decorum of the hearing;
            2.   Direct procedural requirements or similar matters; and
            3.   Impose reasonable time limits for oral presentations.
         (b)   No person shall address the Planning Commission or the City
Council without:
            1.   Receiving recognition from the presiding officer; and
            2.   Stating his or her full name and city of residence, and
providing his or her mailing address.
         (c)   Disruptive conduct, such as applause, cheering, or display of
signs, shall be cause for expulsion of a person or persons from the hearing,
termination or continuation of the hearing, or other appropriate action
determined by the presiding officer.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in the rules of procedures adopted by the
Council, the presiding officer of the Planning Commission and of the City
Council shall conduct the hearing as follows:
         (a)   The presiding officer shall begin the hearing with a statement
of the nature of the matter before the body, a general summary of the
procedures, a summary of the standards for decision-making, and whether the
decision which will be made is a recommendation to the City Council or the
final decision of the City Council;
         (b)   The Planning Official’s report and other applicable staff
reports shall be presented;
         (c)   The public shall be invited to testify;
         (d)   The public hearing may be continued to allow additional
testimony or it may be closed; and
         (e)   The body’s deliberation may include questions to the staff,
comments from the staff, and inquiries directed to any person present.
   (D)   Continuation of the public hearing. The Planning Commission or the
City Council may continue any hearing, and no additional notice of hearing
shall be required if the matter is continued to a specified place, date, and
time.
   (E)   Decision-making considerations.
      (1)   The recommendation by the Planning Commission and the decision by
the City Council shall be based on consideration of the following factors:
         (a)   The State-Wide Planning Goals and Guidelines adopted under
O.R.S. Chapter 197 (for Comprehensive Plan amendments only);
         (b)   Comments from any applicable federal or state agencies regarding
applicable statutes or regulations;
         (c)   Any applicable intergovernmental agreements; and
         (d)   Any applicable Comprehensive Plan policies and provisions of
this code that implement the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Compliance with §§
155.385 through
155.389 shall be required for Comprehensive Plan amendment and Master
Transportation Plan amendment.
   (F)   Approval process and authority.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall, after notice and a public hearing,
vote on and prepare a recommendation to the City Council to approve, approve
with modifications, approve with conditions, deny the proposed change, or adopt
an alternative.
      (2)   Any member of the Planning Commission who votes in opposition to
the Planning Commission’s majority recommendation may file a written statement
of opposition with the Planning Official within 14 days of the decision. The
Planning Official shall provide a copy to each City Council member and place a
copy in the record.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission fails to adopt a recommendation to
approve, approve with modifications, approve with conditions, deny the proposed
change, or adopt an alternative proposal within 30 days of its first public
hearing on the proposed change, the Planning Official shall:
         (a)   Report the failure, together with the proposed change, to the
City Council; and
         (b)   Provide notice and put the matter on the City Council’s agenda,
a public hearing to be held, and a decision to be made by the City Council. The
Planning Commission shall take no further action.
      (4)   The City Council shall:
         (a)   After the City Council’s record has closed, the City Council
shall convene to consider the application, the written testimony received, and
the Planning Commission’s recommendation;
         (b)   If the City Council takes action on the application, it shall
issue a final written decision containing the findings and conclusions to
approve, approve with modifications, approve with conditions, deny, or adopt an
alternative to an application for legislative change, or remand the application
to the Planning Commission for rehearing and reconsideration on all or part of
the application;
         (c)   The City Council will consider the recommendations of the
Planning Commission, however, it is not bound by the Commission’s
recommendation; and
         (d)   Act by ordinance, which shall be signed by the Mayor after the
City Council’s adoption of the ordinance.
   (G)   Vote required for a legislative change.
      (1)   A vote by a majority of the qualified voting members of the
Planning Commission present is required for a recommendation.
      (2)   A vote by a majority of the qualified members of the City Council
present is required to decide any motion made on the proposal.
   (H)   Notice of decision. Notice of a Type IV decision shall be mailed to
the applicant, all participants of record, and the Department of Land
Conservation and Development within five business days after the City Council
decision. The city shall also provide notice to all persons as required by
other applicable laws.
   (I)   Final decision and effective date. A Type IV decision, if approved,
shall take effect and shall become final as specified in the City Council’s
final action, or if not specified, upon mailing of the notice of decision to
the applicant.
   (J)   Record of the public hearing.
      (1)   A verbatim record of the proceeding shall be made by electronic
means. It is not necessary to transcribe the electronic record. The minutes and
other evidence presented, as a part of the hearing, shall be part of the
record;
      (2)   All exhibits received and displayed shall be marked to provide
identification and shall be part of the record;
      (3)   The official record shall include:
         (a)   All materials considered by the Planning Commission;
         (b)   All materials submitted by the Planning Official to the Planning
Commission regarding the application;
         (c)   The verbatim record made by the stenographic, mechanical, or
electronic means, the minutes of the hearing, and other documents considered;
         (d)   The final ordinance;
         (e)   All correspondence; and
         (f)   A copy of the notices, which were given as required by this
subchapter.
   (K)   City initiated changes. Land use code, Master Transportation Plan, and
Comprehensive Plan changes initiated by the city shall follow normal city code
change procedures.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
LAND DIVISIONS AND PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 155.300 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Provide rules, regulations, and standards governing the approval of
subdivisions, partitions, and property (or lot) line adjustments.
      (1)   Subdivisions involve are the creation of four or more lots from one
parent lot, parcel, or tract within one calendar year;
      (2)   Partitions involve are the creation of three or fewer lots from one
parent lot, parcel, or tract within one calendar year; and
      (3)   Property line adjustments are modifications to lot lines or parcel
boundaries that do not result in the creation of new lots, including
consolidation of lots.
   (B)   Carry out the city’s development pattern, as envisioned by the
Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Encourage efficient use of land resources, full utilization of urban
services, and transportation options;
   (D)   Promote the public health, safety, and general welfare through orderly
and efficient urbanization;
   (E)   Lessen or avoid traffic congestion, and secure safety from fire,
flood, pollution, and other dangers;
   (F)   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land, and
facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water supply, sewage, fire
protection, pollution (land, water, sky) control, surface water management, and
protection against natural hazards; and
   (G)   Encourage the conservation of energy resources.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.301 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision and partition approval through two-step process.
Applications for subdivision or partition approval shall be processed through a
two-step process: the tentative plan evaluation and a final plat evaluation.
      (1)   The tentative plan shall be approved before the final plat can be
submitted for approval consideration; and
      (2)   The final plat shall comply with all conditions of approval of the
tentative plan.
   (B)   Compliance with O.R.S. Chapter 92. All subdivision and partition
proposals shall be in conformance to state regulations set forth in O.R.S.
Chapter 92, Subdivisions and Partitions.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.302 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Review of tentative plan. Review of a tentative plan for a subdivision
or partition shall be processed using the Type II procedure at §
155.284. All tentative plans shall be reviewed using approval criteria
contained in §
155.304.
   (B)   Review of final plat. Review of a final plat for a subdivision or
partition shall be processed by means of a Type II procedure under §
155.284 using the approval criteria in §
155.306.
   (C)   Tentative plan approval period. Tentative plan approval shall be
effective for a period of one year from the date of approval. The tentative
plan shall lapse if a final plat has not been submitted within a one-year
period.
   (D)   Modifications and extensions. The applicant may request changes to the
approved tentative plan or conditions of approval following the procedures and
criteria provided in §§
155.370 through
155.372. The Planning Official shall, upon written request by the applicant and
payment of the required fee, grant one extension of the approval period not to
exceed one year, provided that:
      (1)   Any changes to the tentative plan follow the procedures in §§
155.370 through
155.372;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted written intent to file a final plat
within the one-year extension period;
      (3)   An extension of time will not prevent the lawful development of
abutting properties;
      (4)   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new tentative
plan application shall be required; and
      (5)   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved tentative plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.303 TENTATIVE PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General submission requirements. For subdivisions and partitions, the
application shall contain the information and materials required by §
155.282(D).
   (B)   Tentative plan information. In addition to the general information
described in division (A) above, the tentative plan application shall include
two copies of drawings and supplementary written material (for example, on
forms and/or in a written narrative) adequate to provide the following
information:
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   Name of the subdivision (not required for partitions). This name
must not duplicate the name of another subdivision in the county in which it is
located (the developer will need to check with the County Surveyor);
         (b)   Date, north arrow, and scale of drawing;
         (c)   Location of the development sufficient to define its location in
the city boundaries and a legal description of the site;
         (d)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the owners, designer,
and engineer or surveyor, if any, and the date of the survey; and
         (e)   Identification of the drawing as a “tentative plan” with
“revision letter” and “date.”
      (2)   Site analysis.
         (a)   Streets. Location, name, and present width of all streets,
alleys, and rights-of-way on and abutting the site;
         (b)   Easements. Width, location, and purpose of all existing
easements of record on and abutting the site;
         (c)   Utilities. Location and identity of all utilities on and
abutting the site;
         (d)   Ground elevations. Shown by contour lines with two-foot contour
intervals for ground slopes up to 12% and five-foot contour intervals for
ground slopes exceeding 12%. Such ground elevations shall be related to some
established benchmark or other datum approved by the County Surveyor;
         (e)   Benchmarks. The location and elevation of the closest benchmark
(s) within or adjacent to the site (that is, for surveying purposes);
         (f)   Natural hazards. Potential natural hazard areas, including any
floodplains, areas subject to high water table, landslide areas, and areas
having high erosion potential;
         (g)   Sensitive lands. Includes wetland, shoreland, and riparian
areas, streams, lakes, and overlay zone boundaries;
         (h)   Site features. Includes existing structures, pavement, drainage
ways, and ditches;
         (i)   Name, address. Name and address of the owner;
         (j)   Project designer. Name and address of the project designer, if
applicable; and
         (k)   Studies, exhibits. The city may require studies or exhibits
prepared by qualified professionals to address specific site features and code
requirements.
      (3)   Proposed improvements.
         (a)   Public and private streets, tracts, driveways, open space, and
park land; location, names, right-of-way dimensions, and approximate radius of
street curves; and approximate finished street centerline grades. All streets
and tracts, which are being held for private use, and all reservations and
restrictions relating to such private tracts, shall be identified;
         (b)   Location, width, and purpose of all easements;
         (c)   Lots and private tracts (for example, private open space, common
area, or street); and approximate dimensions, area calculation (for example, in
square feet), and identification numbers for all lots and tracts;
         (d)   Proposed uses of the property, including all areas proposed to
be dedicated to the public or reserved as open space for the purpose of surface
water management, recreation, or other use;
         (e)   Proposed improvements, as required by §
155.185, and timing of improvements (for example, in the case of streets,
sidewalks, street trees, utilities, and the like);
         (f)   The proposed source of domestic water;
         (g)   The proposed method of sewage disposal, and method of surface
water drainage and treatment;
         (h)   The approximate location and identity of other utilities,
including the locations of street lighting fixtures;
         (i)   Changes to watercourses;
         (j)   Identification of the base flood elevation for development
greater than three lots or five acres, whichever is less. Evidence of contact
with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to initiate a floodplain map
amendment shall be required when development is proposed to modify a designated
100-year floodplain; and
         (k)   Evidence of contact with the State Department of Transportation
(ODOT) or the county for any development requiring access to a highway under
the state’s or county’s jurisdiction.
      (4)   Future revision plan. When subdividing or partitioning tracts into
large lots (for example, greater than two times the minimum lot size allowed by
the underlying land use zone), the application must include a re-division plan
which identifies:
         (a)   Potential future lot division(s) in conformance with the housing
and density standards of §§
155.050 through
155.053;
         (b)   Potential street right-of-way alignments to serve future
development of the property and connect to adjacent properties, including
existing or planned rights-of-way; and
         (c)   A disclaimer that the plan is a conceptual plan intended to show
potential future development. It shall not be binding on the city or property
owners, except as may be required through conditions of land division approval.
For example, dedication and improvement of rights-of-way within the future plan
area may be required to provide needed secondary access and circulation.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.304 APPROVAL CRITERIA; TENTATIVE PLAN.
   (A)   General approval criteria. The city may approve, approve with
conditions, or deny a tentative plan based on the following approval criteria.
      (1)   The proposed tentative plan complies with all of the applicable
Development Code sections and other applicable ordinances and regulations. At a
minimum, the provisions of this section, and the applicable sections of §§
155.050 through
155.053, and
155.185, shall apply. Where a variance is necessary to receive approval, the
application shall also comply with §
155.450;
      (2)   The proposed plat name is not already recorded for another
subdivision and satisfies the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 92;
      (3)   (a)   The proposed streets, sidewalks, bicycle lanes, pathways,
utilities, and surface water management facilities are laid out so as to
conform or transition to the plats of subdivisions and maps of partitions
already approved for adjoining property as to width, general direction, and in
all other respects.
         (b)   All proposed public improvements and dedications are identified
on the tentative plan;
      (4)   All proposed private common areas and improvements (for example,
homeowners’ associations property) are identified on the tentative plan; and
      (5)   An engineer licensed by the state has documented the safety of all
development proposed on slopes in excess of 16%.
   (B)   Housing density. The subdivision or partition meets the city’s housing
standards of §§
155.050 through
155.053.
   (C)   Block and lot standards. All proposed blocks (that is, one or more
lots bound by public streets), lots, and parcels conform to the specific
requirements of §§
155.050 through
155.053,
155.200, and
155.201.
   (D)   Future re-division plan. If the proposal is to subdivide or partition
into tracts greater than two times the minimum lot size allowed by the
underlying land use zone, the applicant has submitted a future re-division plan
demonstrating that the lots will be of such size, shape, and orientation as to
facilitate future re-division in accordance with the requirements of the land
use zone and this code, the re-division plan must identify:
      (1)   Potential future lot division(s) in conformance with the housing
and density standards of §§
155.050 through
155.053;
      (2)   Potential street right-of-way alignments to serve future
development of the property and connect to adjacent properties, including
existing or planned rights-of-way; and
      (3)   (a)   A disclaimer that the plan is a conceptual plan intended to
show potential future development.
         (b)   It shall not be binding on the city or property owners, except
as may be required through conditions of land division approval. For example,
dedication and improvement of rights-of-way within the future plan area may be
required to provide needed secondary access and circulation.
   (E)   Development in a 100-year floodplain.
      (1)   Development in a 100-year floodplain shall comply with Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) requirements, including filling to elevate
structures above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   To demonstrate consistency with this criterion, the applicant shall
be responsible for obtaining such approvals from the appropriate agency before
city approval of the tentative plan.
   (F)   Determination of base flood elevation. Where a development site
consists of two or more lots, or is located in or near areas prone to
inundation, and the base flood elevation has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be prepared by an
engineer registered in the state.
   (G)   Utilities. All lots created through land division shall have public
utilities and facilities such as electrical, telephone, and water systems
located and constructed to prevent flooding.
   (H)   Drainage. All subdivision and partition proposals shall have surface
water drainage provisions which meet the requirements set forth in
Chapter 154.
   (I)   Phased development for subdivision application.
      (1)   The city may approve a time schedule for developing a subdivision
in phases, but in no case shall the actual construction time period (that is,
for required public improvements, utilities, streets) for any subdivision phase
be greater than two years without reapplying for a tentative plan; and
      (2)   The criteria for approving a phased land division proposal are:
         (a)   Public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or
prior to each phase;
         (b)   The development and occupancy of any phase dependent on the use
of temporary public facilities shall be proposed and approved as part of the
tentative plan. Temporary facilities shall be approved only upon city receipt
of bonding or other assurances to cover the cost of required permanent public
improvements, in accordance with §
155.308. A TEMPORARY PUBLIC FACILITY is any facility not constructed to the
applicable city or zone standard;
         (c)   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city or
a third party (for example, owners of lots) to construct public facilities that
were required as part of the approved development proposal; and
         (d)   The application for phased development approval shall be
reviewed concurrently with the tentative plan application, and the decision may
be appealed in the same manner as the tentative plan.
   (J)   Partition approval criteria. A partition application shall only apply
to creating smaller lots or parcels from larger lots or parcels. Any other land
use change on the partition land at the time of the partition application shall
disqualify the application and require a subdivision application.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.305 VARIANCES AUTHORIZED.
   A variance to the criteria standards of this subchapter may be permitted as
part of the Type II land division process by applying the variance criteria of
§§
155.465 through
155.470. Applications for variances shall be submitted at the same time an
application for land division is submitted.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.306 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Submission requirements. Final plats shall be reviewed and approved by
the city prior to recording with the county. The applicant shall submit the
final plat within one year of the approval of the tentative plan as provided by
§
155.302.
   (B)   Approval criteria. By means of a Type II procedure, the Planning
Commission shall review the final plat and shall approve or deny the final plat
based on findings regarding compliance with the following criteria:
      (1)   The final plat complies with the approved tentative plan, and all
conditions of approval have been satisfied;
      (2)   All public improvements required by the tentative plan have been
installed and approved by the city. Alternatively, the developer has provided a
performance guarantee in accordance with §
155.308;
      (3)   The streets for public use are dedicated without reservation or
restriction other than reversionary rights upon vacation of any such street and
easements for public utilities;
      (4)   The streets held for private use as conforming to the tentative
plan;
      (5)   The plat contains a dedication to the public of all public
improvements, including, but not limited to, streets, public pathways, and
trails, access reserve strips, and storm drainage;
      (6)   The applicant has provided copies of all recorded homeowners
association covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs); deed restrictions;
private easements and agreements (for example, for access, common areas,
parking, and the like); and other recorded documents pertaining to common
improvements recorded and referenced on the plat;
      (7)   Certification by the state and the county, as applicable, that
water and sanitary sewer service is available to each and every lot depicted on
the plat; or bond, contract, or other assurance has been provided by the
developer to the city that such services will be installed in accordance with
§§
155.230 through
155.237, and the bond requirements of §
155.308; and
      (8)   The plat contains an affidavit by the surveyor who surveyed the
land, represented on the plat to the effect the land was correctly surveyed and
marked with proper monuments as provided by O.R.S. Chapter 92, and indicating
the initial point of the survey, and giving the dimensions and kind of such
monument and its reference to some corner established by the U.S. Geological
Survey, or giving two or more permanent objects for identifying its location.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.307 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following procedures apply to subdivisions and partitions when public
improvements are required as a condition of approval:
   (A)   Before city approval is certified on the final plat, all required
public improvements must be installed, inspected, and approved; or
   (B)   Alternatively, the developer may provide a performance guarantee, in
accordance with §
155.308.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.308 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Performance guarantee required. When a performance guarantee is
required under §
155.307, the developer shall file an assurance of performance with the city
supported by one of the following:
      (1)   An irrevocable letter of credit executed by a financial institution
authorized to transact business in the state;
      (2)   A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state which remains in force until the surety company is
notified by the city in writing that it may be terminated; or
      (3)   Cash in an escrow account or payment to the city.
   (B)   Itemized improvement estimate. The developer will furnish to the city
an itemized improvement estimate, certified by a civil engineer licensed by the
state, to assist the city in calculating the amount of the performance
guarantee.
   (C)   Determination of sum. The assurance of performance shall be for a sum
determined by the city as required to cover the cost of the improvements and
repairs, including related engineering and incidental expenses.
   (D)   Agreement. An agreement between the city and developer shall be
recorded with the final plat that stipulates all of the following:
      (1)   Specifies the period within which all required improvements and
repairs will be completed;
      (2)   A provision that if work is not completed within the period
specified, the city may complete the work and recover the full cost and
expenses from the applicant;
      (3)   Stipulates the improvement fees and deposits that are required; and
      (4)   (a)   As an option, provides for the construction of the
improvements in stages and for the extension of time under specific conditions
therein stated in the agreement.
         (b)   This agreement may be prepared by the city, or in a letter
prepared by the applicant. It shall not be valid until it is signed and dated
by the applicant, approved by the City Council, and signed by the Mayor.
   (E)   When developer fails to perform. In the event the developer fails to
carry out all provisions of the agreement and the city has un-reimbursed costs
or expenses resulting from such failure, the city shall call on the bond, cash
deposit, or letter of credit for reimbursement.
   (F)   Termination of performance guarantee. The developer shall not cause
termination of nor allow expiration of the guarantee without having first
secured written authorization from the city.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.309 FILING AND RECORDING.
   (A)   Filing plat with county. Within 60 days of the signature of the Mayor
on the final plat, the applicant shall submit the final plat to the county for
signatures of county officials as required by O.R.S. Chapter 92.
   (B)   Proof of recording. Within 15 days of final recording with the county,
the applicant shall submit to the city a paper copy of the recorded final plat.
This must occur prior to the issuance of building permits for the newly created
lots.
   (C)   Prerequisites to recording the plat.
      (1)   No plat may be recorded unless all ad valorem taxes and all special
assessments, fees, or other charges required by law to be placed on the tax
roll have been paid in the manner provided by O.R.S. Chapter 92.
      (2)   No plat may be recorded until the County Surveyor approves it in
the manner provided by O.R.S. Chapter 92.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.310 REPLATTING AND VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Replatting and vacations. Any plat or portion thereof may be replatted
or vacated upon receiving an application signed by all of the owners as
appearing on the deed. Except as required for street vacations, the same
procedure and standards that apply to the creation of a plat (tentative plat
followed by final plat) shall be used to replat or vacate a plat.
   (B)   Procedure. All applications for a replat or vacation shall be
processed in accordance with the Type II procedures described in §
155.284, and the standards for a subdivision or partition (that is, the
standards that would currently apply to the creation of a subdivision or
partition shall be used to replat or vacate the plat).
   (C)   Recording. All approved replats and vacations shall be recorded in
accordance with §
155.309 and the following procedures:
      (1)   Once recorded, a replat or vacation shall operate to eliminate the
force and effect of the plat prior to vacation; and
      (2)   Vacations shall also divest all public rights in the streets and
public grounds, and all dedications identified on the plat.
   (D)   After sale of lots. When one or more lots have been sold, the plat may
be vacated only in the manner herein, and provided that all of the owners of
lots within the platted area consent in writing to the plat vacation.
   (E)   Vacation of streets. All street vacations shall comply with the
procedures and standards set forth in O.R.S. Chapter 271.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.311 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   Lot line, or property line, adjustments include the relocation or
elimination of a common property line between abutting properties. No lot or
combination of contiguous lots, either vacant or containing a single-family or
multi-family dwelling, shall be replatted so that an undersized lot is created,
nor shall a lot be replatted if setbacks or dimensions less than the minimum
would result. The application submission and approvals process is as follows:
   (A)   Application requirements. All applications for property line
adjustments shall be made on forms provided by the Planning Official and shall
include information required for a Type I application, as governed by §
155.283. The application shall include two copies of drawings illustrating:
      (1)   A preliminary lot line map drawn to scale identifying all existing
and proposed lot lines and dimensions;
      (2)   Footprints and dimensions of existing structures (including
accessory structures);
      (3)   Location and dimensions of driveways and public and private streets
within or abutting the subject lots;
      (4)   Existing fences and walls;
      (5)   A surveyed legal description of the lot or lots to be adjusted; and
      (6)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Planning Official for
ensuring compliance with city codes.
   (B)   Approval procedures. Property line adjustments shall be processed
using the Type I procedure, as provided by §
155.283, using approval criteria contained in division (C) below.
   (C)   Approval criteria. The Planning Official shall approve or deny a
request for a property line adjustment in writing based on findings that all of
the following criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   No additional parcel or lot is created by the property line
adjustment, however the number of lots or parcels may be reduced;
      (2)   All lots and parcels comply with the applicable lot standards of
the underlying zoning district;
      (3)   All lots and parcels comply with the standards or requirements of §
155.201;
      (4)   The resulting lots, parcels, tracts, and building locations comply
with the setback standards of the zoning district; and
      (5)   Non-conforming lots, or lots less than one acre in size, shall not
be made less conforming by the property line adjustment and shall maintain an
area large enough to be a buildable parcel.
   (D)   Filing and recording.
      (1)   Expiration of approval. The property line adjustment approval shall
be effective for a period of 60 days from the date the approval is signed by
the Planning Official. The lot line adjustment approval shall lapse if:
         (a)   The property line adjustment is not recorded within the time
limit set out above;
         (b)   The property line adjustment has been improperly recorded with
the county without the satisfactory completion of all conditions attached to
the approval; or
         (c)   The final recording is a departure from the approved property
line adjustment.
      (2)   Filing with county. Within 60 days of the city’s approval, the
applicant must submit the final property line adjustment survey with legal
description to the county for recording.
      (3)   Proof of recording. Within 15 days of final recording with the
county, the applicant shall submit to the city a paper copy of the recorded
final property line adjustment. This must occur prior to the issuance of any
building permits on the reconfigured lots.
   (E)   Extension. The city shall, upon written request by the applicant and
payment of the required fee, grant an extension of the approval period not to
exceed one year, provided that:
      (1)   No changes are made on the original property line adjustment as
approved by the city;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted a written intent of recording the
approved property line adjustment within the one-year extension period;
      (3)   There have been no changes in the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new property
line adjustment application shall be required; and
      (4)   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved property line adjustment.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 155.325 PURPOSE.
   There are certain uses that, due to the nature of their impact on
surrounding land uses and public facilities, require a case-by-case review and
analysis. These are identified as “Conditional Uses/Uses Subject to Review” in
§
155.050 through
155.053. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards and procedures
for permitting conditional uses.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.326 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Initial application. An application for a new conditional use shall be
processed as a Type III procedure described under §
155.285. The application shall meet the submission requirements in §
155.327. The approval criteria is contained in §
155.328.
   (B)   Modification of approved or existing conditional use. Modifications to
approved or existing conditional uses shall be processed in accordance with §§
155.370 through
155.372.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.327 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the submission requirements in §
155.282(D), an application for a conditional use must include the following
information, as applicable:
      (1)   A detailed, written narrative that clearly explains how the
conditional use affects compliance with the approval criteria and applicable
standards of the original development application, and the reasons for the
conditional use application;
      (2)   A site plan depicting all existing and proposed improvements (drawn
to scale);
      (3)   Preliminary grading plan;
      (4)   Architectural drawings of all proposed structures;
      (5)   Drawings of all proposed signs;
      (6)   A copy of all existing and proposed homeowners’ associations
covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs); and
      (7)   A narrative report or letter documenting compliance with all
applicable approval criteria in §
155.328.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the application submission requirements of
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(7) above, if a conditional use permit application
is for multi-family housing, the application must include a detailed, written
maintenance plan that clearly describes how any common or open space areas (for
example, landscaping, private tracts, common driveways, private alleys,
building exteriors, and/or similar common areas) shall be maintained.
      (2)   (a)   The maintenance plan must describe regular and uniform upkeep
of landscaping as well as routine inspection, repair, and replacement as
necessary of all common lighting fixtures, fire suppression systems, safety
controls, and other community systems that serve residents.
         (b)   The maintenance plan must also describe when maintenance
activities will be implemented and how they will be funded on an ongoing basis.
         (c)   The purpose of this requirement is to provide for additional
review to encourage development that is healthy, safe, and compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.328 CRITERIA, STANDARDS, CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The city shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application for
a conditional use or to enlarge or alter a conditional use, based on findings
of fact with respect to each of the following standards and criteria:
   (A)   General use criteria. General use criteria apply to all uses,
including multi-family housing.
      (1)   The site size, dimensions, location, topography, and access are
adequate for the needs of the proposed use, considering the proposed building
mass, lot coverage, parking, traffic, noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions,
light, glare, erosion, slopes, odor, dust, visibility, safety, and aesthetic
considerations.
         (a)   Site improvements, which could cause off-site impacts, are
oriented away from nearby residential use and/or adequately mitigated through
other design techniques, such as screening or increased setbacks.
         (b)   The project is designed, sited, and/or adequately buffered to
minimize off-site impacts which could adversely affect future residents of the
subject property.
      (2)   The negative impacts of the proposed use, if any, on the public can
be mitigated through the application of the conditions outlined at division (C)
below, and/or other reasonable conditions of approval;
      (3)   All required public facilities have adequate capacity to serve the
proposal, consistent with the city code;
      (4)   The proposal is consistent with applicable policies of the
Comprehensive Plan for the city; and
      (5)   The location, size, design, and operating characteristics of the
proposed use:
         (a)   Will not create any significant risk to public health and
safety, including, but not limited to, soil erosion and flood hazard or an
impediment to emergency response;
         (b)   Will not adversely affect the development of abutting properties
and the surrounding vicinity;
         (c)   Will not be adversely affected by known natural hazards, such as
floods, landslides, or erosion;
         (d)   Will minimize impacts to the natural environment; and
         (e)   Will demonstrate adequate and safe circulation for vehicles and
pedestrians.
   (B)   Multi-family housing. In addition to the general use criteria
described in division (A) above and the conditions of approval in division (C)
below, the following conditions, which are intended to control development
scale, avoid or minimize impacts associated with traffic, parking, and design
compatibility, and ensure management and maintenance of common areas, apply to
any conditional use permit proposal which involves multi-family housing:
      (1)   Duplex. The following standards apply where a duplex is proposed
adjacent to a single-family dwelling where the duplex lot and single-family lot
share a common property line:
         (a)   The duplex shall not exceed the height of the adjacent single-
family dwelling by more than twenty 20%;
         (b)   The duplex, if located on a corner lot and having two garages,
shall have each garage entrance oriented to a different street or alley;
         (c)   1.   The duplex shall have no blank wall oriented to a street;
and
            2.   This standard is met if any elevation facing a street is
composed of not less than 30% windows and door surface area.
         (d)   The roof form on the duplex (for example, gable, flat, or
hipped) shall be similar to the roof form of adjacent single-family dwellings
on the same block face.
      (2)   Townhomes/attached single-family dwellings. Where attached single-
family dwellings are proposed, the structure(s) shall meet all of the following
standards:
         (a)   Each building shall contain not more than four consecutively
attached dwelling units and not exceed an overall length or width of 120 feet;
         (b)   The primary entrance of each dwelling unit shall be oriented to
a street or an interior courtyard that is not less than 24 feet in width;
         (c)   Where the proposed site is served by an existing or planned
alley, vehicle access shall be from the alley and all garage entrances shall be
oriented to the alley; and
         (d)   Design and development standards described in §§
155.050 through
155.053 and the design standards of §
155.185 shall be met.
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings (to a maximum of four-plexes).
         (a)   Common open space and land coverage. A minimum of 20% of the
site area in the Residential Zone and 10% of the site area in the Commercial
Zone shall be designated and permanently reserved as common area or open space,
in accordance with all of the following criteria.
            1.   SITE AREA, for the purposes of this section, is defined as the
proposed lot or lots after subtracting any required dedication of street
rights-of-way.
            2.   The common area or open space shall contain one or more of the
following: outdoor recreation area; tree grove (for example, existing mature
trees), turf play fields or playgrounds, sports courts, swimming pools, walking
fitness courses, natural areas with picnic benches, or similar open space
amenities as appropriate for the intended residents.
            3.   In order to be counted as eligible toward the minimum open
space area, such areas shall have dimensions of not less than 20 feet.
            4.   Open space and common areas not otherwise developed with
recreational facilities shall be landscaped; alternatively, the Planning
Commission may approve a tree preservation plan (retain mature tree groves) in
lieu of landscaping.
         (b)   Common areas. Any common areas (for example, landscaping,
private tracts, common driveways, private alleys, building exteriors, and/or
similar common areas) shall be owned and maintained by a homeowners’
association or other legal entity.
            1.   A copy of any applicable covenants, conditions, and
restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be recorded and a copy provided to the city prior to
issuance of a building permit.
            2.   All common areas shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage in accordance with
the approved maintenance plan.
         (c)   Private open space. Private open space areas shall be required
for dwelling units based on the following criteria.
            1.   a.   A minimum of 50% of all ground-floor dwelling units shall
have front or rear patios or decks containing at least 48 square feet of usable
area.
               b.   GROUND-FLOOR HOUSING means the housing unit entrance (front
or rear) is within five feet of the finished ground elevation (as in, after
grading and landscaping).
            2.   A minimum of 50% of all upper-floor housing units shall have
balconies or porches containing at least 48 square feet of usable area. UPPER-
FLOOR HOUSING means housing units that are more than five feet above the
finished grade.
         (d)   Access, circulation, landscaping, parking, public facilities.
The standards of §
155.185 shall be met.
         (e)   Trash storage.
            1.   Garbage collection facilities, recycling, and storage
facilities shall be oriented away from building entrances, setback at least ten
feet from any public right-of-way and adjacent residences, shall have a
concrete floor surface, shall be fully enclosed with a solid fence or wall of
not less than six feet in height with a solid gate accessible by the city’s
garbage collection provider(s), and located pursuant to the provider’s
specifications.
            2.   All household garbage shall be stored in receptacles which are
free from holes and covered with tight-fitting lids.
            3.   All recyclable material must be cleaned of food and beverage
remnants and stored in receptacles specified by the city’s garbage collection
provider(s).
         (f)   Postal service, delivery. Postal delivery facilities shall be
located in a convenient location for residents and mail delivery personnel, and
in accordance with U.S. Postal Service requirements.
         (g)   Garages/carports. If garages or carports are provided, the form,
materials, color, and construction shall be similar to the complex they serve.
         (h)   Electrical and mechanical equipment. On and aboveground
electrical and mechanical equipment, such as transformers, heat pumps, and
central air conditioner units, shall be completely screened with sight-
obscuring fences, walls, or landscaping.
   (C)   Conditions of approval.
      (1)   The city may impose conditions that are necessary to ensure that
the use is compatible with other uses in the vicinity, and that the negative
impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and public facilities is
minimized. These conditions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Limiting the hours, days, place, and/or manner of operation;
         (b)   Requiring site or architectural design features which minimize
environmental impacts such as noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light,
glare, erosion, odor, and/or dust;
         (c)   Requiring larger setback areas, lot area, and/or lot depth or
width;
         (d)   Limiting the building height, size, or lot coverage, and/or
location on the site;
         (e)   Designating the size, number, location, and/or design of vehicle
access points or parking areas;
         (f)   Requiring street rights-of-way to be dedicated and street(s),
sidewalks, curbs, planting strips, pathways, or trails to be improved;
         (g)   Requiring landscaping, screening, drainage, water quality
facilities, and/or improvement of parking and loading areas;
         (h)   Limiting the number, size, location, height, and/or lighting of
signs;
         (i)   Limiting or setting standards for the location, design, and/or
intensity of outdoor lighting;
         (j)   Requiring berms, screening, or landscaping, and the
establishment of standards for their installation and maintenance;
         (k)    Requiring and designating the size, height, location, and/or
materials for fences;
         (l)   Requiring the protection and preservation of existing trees,
soils, vegetation, watercourses, habitat areas, drainage areas, historic
resources, cultural resources, and/or sensitive lands; and
         (m)   Requiring the dedication of sufficient land to the public, and/
or construction of pedestrian/bicycle pathways in accordance with the adopted
plans. Dedication of land and construction will conform to the provisions of §
155.232.
      (2)   (a)   The Planning Commission may require review and renewal of
conditional use permits annually or in accordance with another timetable as
approved pursuant to this subchapter. Where applicable, the timetable shall
provide for periodic review and renewal, or expiration, of the conditional use
permit to ensure compliance with conditions of approval.
         (b)   Such periodic review may occur through a Type III review
process, except where the Planning Commission delegates authority to the City
Planning Official to issue renewals, who shall do so through a Type I or Type
II procedure, as applicable.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.329 REVOCATION.
   The City Council may revoke a conditional use permit if:
   (A)   No action has been taken to utilize the conditional use permit within
two years of the date of approval; or
   (B)   The use approved by the conditional use permit is discontinued for any
reason for one continuous year or more.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.330 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USE TYPES.
   (A)   Concurrent variance application(s). A conditional use permit shall not
grant variances to regulations otherwise prescribed by the Development Code.
Variance application(s) may be filed in conjunction with the conditional use
application and both applications may be reviewed at the same hearing.
   (B)   Additional development standards. Development standards for specific
uses are contained in §
155.050 through 155.053.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) PROCEDURES
§ 155.345 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth the objectives,
principles, standards, and procedures to be used in developing a planned unit
development (PUD).
   (B)   This section is designed to permit the flexibility needed to encourage
the appropriate development of tracts of land that are large enough to allow
the use of individualized comprehensive planning.
   (C)   It is intended to provide the option of flexibility in the application
of certain regulations in a manner consistent with the general intent and
provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and Zoning and Development Ordinance,
thereby promoting a harmonious variety of uses, the economy of shared services
and facilities, compatibility of surrounding areas, and the creation of
attractive, healthful, efficient, and stable environments for living, shopping,
recreation, or working.
   (D)   These provisions are offered as an alternative to clear and objective
approval procedures elsewhere in this code.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.346 DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   A PUD is an optional approach to community development that allows
modification of the more or less rigid setback, lot size specification, and
land use provisions of the building code, and this subchapter. A PUD
establishes broad standards and goals to be followed, thus enabling and
encouraging flexibility of design and development in order to cluster housing
and protect areas with open space and natural values.
   (B)   Based on the concept of cluster housing, it allows single-family and
attached multi-family dwellings of varying sizes, and other uses to be built in
the same development, thus inviting considerable variety in both tract and
building design and uses, the possible retention of natural settings or
community recreational areas, and reduced street and utility installation cost.
   (C)   Although the density of the total area remains consistent with that of
normal development, emphasis is placed on the relationship between buildings,
uses, and open space, and the most efficient use of both natural and
development resources, rather than planning on a lot-by-lot or building-by-
building basis.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.347 OBJECTIVES.
   The general objectives of the PUD are:
   (A)   To encourage innovations and variety in the development or reuse of
property;
   (B)   To maximize choice in the type of environment available in the city;
   (C)   To encourage a more efficient use of land and of public services and
facilities;
   (D)   To take advantage of and promote functional land use design;
   (E)   To provide for the enhancement and preservation of property with
unique features (such as, historical, topographical, and natural landscape);
   (F)   To simplify processing of development proposals for developers and the
Planning Commission by providing for concurrent review of land use,
subdivision, public improvements, and siting;
   (G)   To enable special problem areas or sites in the city to be developed
or improved, in particular where these areas or sites are characterized by
special features of geography, topography, size, or shape;
   (H)   To provide an environment of stable character in harmony with
surrounding development or use, or proposed development or use;
   (I)   To permit flexibility of design that will create desirable public and
private common open spaces and a variety in type, design, and layout of
buildings, and utilize to the best possible extent the potentials of each
individual site;
   (J)   To assist in reducing the public service cost of development; and
   (K)   To provide for enhancement and preservation of desirable vegetation
and trees within the PUD.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.348 ALLOWED USES.
   The following buildings and uses may be allowed either singly or in
combination in a PUD. Except as specifically provided or referred to in this
subchapter, the building and uses allowed in a PUD shall be governed by the
basic uses of the parent zone:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (C)   Manufactured homes or modular homes;
   (D)   All other uses allowed in the parent zone;
   (E)   Conditional uses allowed in the parent zone;
   (F)   Open space;
   (G)   Public and private non-profit parks and playgrounds, community
centers, and recreational facilities;
   (H)   Hiking and riding trails;
   (I)   Neighborhood shopping centers and convenience shops where they are
deemed appropriate to a larger neighborhood of which the PUD is an integral
part and are designed to primarily serve the residents of the PUD with goods
and services; and
   (J)   Accessory structures and uses to the extent necessary and normal to
the uses permitted allowed in this section.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.349 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Review of tentative development plan and plat. Review of a tentative
development plan for a PUD shall be processed with a Type III procedure
described under §
155.285.
   (B)   Review of final plat. Review of the final plat for a PUD shall be
processed with a Type II procedure described under §
155.284.
   (C)   Tentative plan approval period. Tentative plan approval shall be
effective for a period of one year from the date of approval. The tentative
plan shall lapse if a final plat has not been submitted within one year.
   (D)   Modifications and extensions. The Planning Official shall, upon
written request by the applicant and payment of the required fee, grant one
extension of the tentative plan approval period not to exceed one year,
provided, that:
      (1) Any changes to the tentative plan follow the procedures in §§
155.370 through
155.372;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted written intent to file a final plat
within the one-year extension period;
      (3)   An extension of time will not prevent the lawful development of
abutting properties;
      (4)   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new tentative
plan application shall be required; and
      (5)   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.350 TENTATIVE PUD PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications for preliminary approval shall be made by the owner(s) of all
property included in the PUD, or his or her authorized agent, and shall be
filed on a form prescribed by the City Council and filed with the City
Recorder. In addition to the information and material required by §
155.282(D), the application shall indicate all owners of record, contract
purchasers, holders of options, and proposed developers. Tentative PUD
applications shall be accompanied by the filing fee to defray the cost of
processing the application, and shall include the following:
   (A)   One copy of a written statement made up of the following information:
      (1)   An explanation of the character of the PUD and the form of
organization proposed to own and maintain the common areas and facilities, and
the type of ownership of individual units or spaces.
      (2)   Drafts of proposed covenants, deed restrictions, and other
documents relating to the dedication, improvement, and maintenance of common
and private areas or facilities.
      (3)   A development schedule indicating:
         (a)   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
         (b)   The proposed stages in which the project will be built and the
approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
         (c)   The approximate dates when the development will be completed;
         (d)   The area, uses, and location of common open space that will be
provided at each stage;
         (e)   A tabulation of land area to be devoted to various uses and a
calculation of the average residential density per net acre; and
         (f)   The identity of the applicant’s design team. See division (C)
below.
   (B)   Eight copies of a detailed tentative development plan(s) and plat of
the entire development (drawn to scale), which shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   Topography of the proposed development with two-foot contour
intervals for ground slopes up to 12% and five-foot contour intervals for
ground slopes exceeding 12%;
      (2)   The proposed locations, arrangement, and dimensions of proposed
streets, driveways, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, trails, bikeways, off-street
parking, and loading areas;
      (3)   The proposed location and dimensions of all buildings and
structures and their use, open space, and dedicated or reserved properties;
      (4)   Proposed locations of water, sanitary systems, drainage, and
facilities, and utility easements;
      (5)   The proposed locations, character, and type of signs and lighting
facilities;
      (6)   A detailed, written narrative that clearly explains all departures
from the provisions of §§
155.050 through
155.053, and
155.185;
      (7)   Detailed exterior building plans and elevations;
      (8)   Detailed grading or earth moving plans; and
      (9) Detailed landscaping plans.
   (C)   Applicant’s design team.
      (1)   Qualified professionals, including, but not limited to, qualified
architects, landscape architects, engineers, and land surveyors licensed by the
state, shall work as a team as required for the planning, development, and
construction of a PUD.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant shall designate one of the qualified
professionals to be responsible for conferring with the city with respect to
the concept and details of the development plan, and shall act as the liaison
between the city and the design team.
         (b)   The selection of this coordinator shall not limit the applicant
or any member of the team from consulting with or presenting material to the
Planning Commission and City Council.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.351 TENTATIVE PUD PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   The city may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a tentative PUD plan
based on the following approval criteria.
   (A)   Size and facility standards.
      (1)   The minimum size for a tract of land to be developed as a PUD shall
be not less than five contiguous acres.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(1) above, a PUD
application may be filed on a tract of land less than five contiguous acres,
but no approval shall be given to such application unless the applicant
demonstrates that the minimum size required in division (A)(1) above should be
waived and that one or more of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Because of unusual physical features of the property or of the
neighborhood in which it is located, a substantial deviation from the
regulations otherwise applicable is necessary or appropriate in order to
conserve a physical or topographical feature;
         (b)   The property or its neighborhood has historical character of
economic importance to the city that will be protected by use of a PUD;
         (c)   The property is adjacent to property which has been officially
approved, developed, or redeveloped as a PUD, and that a PUD on the subject
property can be effectively integrated with the existing PUD; and
         (d)   The property is determined to be an isolated problem area that
has been bypassed in the course of development and for which a PUD is
determined to be the most feasible method of developing the area.
   (B)   Residential density. Residential density shall be equivalent to not
more than one family unit per acre.
   (C)   Lot area and dimension standards. The minimum lot area, width, depth,
height, and setback requirements of this chapter applicable to the zone in
which the PUD lies shall not dictate the strict guidelines for development
within the PUD, but shall serve as a guideline to ensure that the development
shall be in harmony with the character of the surrounding area.
   (D)   Perimeter standards and visual screening. The applicant shall
demonstrate that topographical or other existing barriers, or the design of the
PUD, provide adequate screening or privacy necessary for properties adjacent to
the PUD or, in the alternative, that:
      (1)   Structures located near the perimeter of a PUD are designed and
located so as to protect the privacy and amenity of adjacent existing uses; and
      (2)   A permanent visual screening will be established, either by
appropriate structures or vegetation, or both, along those portions of the site
boundaries requiring such screening to assure compatibility with adjacent
existing or prospective land uses.
   (E)   Open space standards. The applicant shall demonstrate that the
location, shape, size, and character of the open space shall be provided in a
manner to meet the specific needs of the PUD consistent with the standards set
forth below, and shall be used only for those uses so specified:
      (1)   Open space may be used for scenic, landscaping, or outdoor
recreational purposes. The uses designated for the open space shall be
appropriate to the scale and character of the PUD, considering its size,
density, expected population, topography, and the number and type of dwellings
to be provided;
      (2)   Open space shall be developed and improved to the extent that it
will serve the purpose for which it is designated. Outdoor areas containing
natural features and natural vegetation may be left unimproved. Conifers will
be preserved whenever possible;
      (3)   Any building, structure, and improvements within the open space
shall be appropriate to the uses which are authorized for the open space, and
shall conserve and enhance the amenities of the open space having regard to its
topography and unimproved condition;
      (4)   The development schedule, which is part of the development plan,
must coordinate the improvement of the open space and the construction of
residential dwellings and other buildings in the PUD; and
      (5)   All structures, grading, landscaping, and improvements indicated on
the plan as being in the open space or common ground shall be completed before
any portion of the PUD is sold.
   (F)   Maintenance of common land and facilities, owners, or tenants
associations. The applicant shall demonstrate that for any lands or facilities,
including streets or ways, shown on the final development plan as being held in
common, an association of owners or tenants shall be created into a non-profit
corporation under the laws of the state, and that such corporation shall adopt
articles of incorporation and bylaws and adopt and impose a declaration of
covenants and restrictions on such common areas and facilities. The association
shall be formed and continued for the purpose of maintaining such common open
space and facilities. It shall be created in such a manner that owners of
property shall automatically be members and shall be subject to assessment
levies to maintain the areas and facilities for the purposes intended. The
period of existence of such association shall continue in perpetuity unless and
until a majority vote of the members shall terminate it.
   (G)   Dedications, easements, and similar requirements. The city may, as a
condition of approval, require that portions of the PUD be set aside, improved,
conveyed, or dedicated consistent with constitutional limitations for the
following uses:
      (1)   Easements necessary to the orderly extension of public utilities;
      (2)   Streets and pedestrian ways necessary to the proper development of
the PUD and adjacent properties; and
      (3)   Recreational areas or open spaces suitable for the owner,
residents, employees, or patrons of the PUD and the general public.
   (H)   Construction standards. Except as expressly provided herein, the
provisions of the building code, this chapter, and all other city ordinances
and codes shall apply to and control all design and construction of
improvements within a PUD.
   (I)   Location, design, size. The location, design, and size must be such
that the development can be well integrated with its surroundings, and, in the
case of a departure in character from surrounding land uses, that the location
and design will adequately reduce the impact of the development.
      (1)   The location, design, size, and land use must be such that traffic
generated by the development can be accommodated safely and without congestion
on existing or planned streets, and will avoid as much as possible traversing
local streets.
      (2)   The location, design, size, and land uses must be such that the
residents or establishments to be accommodated will be adequately served by
existing facilities and services, or by facilities and services which are
planned for construction within a time period that is deemed reasonable.
   (J)   Minor deviations.
      (1)   When requested by the applicant as part of the application for
approval of the final PUD plan, the city may approve minor deviations from the
tentative PUD plan as part of the approval of a final PUD application.
      (2)   All other changes, including extension or revisions of the stage
development schedule, shall be processed in accordance with §§
155.370 through
155.372.
   (K)   Phased development.
      (1)   As part of its approval of the tentative PUD plan, the city may
approve a time schedule for developing a PUD in phases, but in no case shall
the actual construction time period (that is, for required public improvements,
utilities, or streets) for any phase be greater than two years without
reapplying for a tentative plan.
      (2)   The criteria for approving a phased PUD proposal are:
         (a)   Public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or
prior to each phase;
         (b)   The development and occupancy of any phase dependent on the use
of temporary public facilities shall be proposed and approved as part of the
tentative plan. Temporary facilities shall be approved only upon city receipt
of bonding or other assurances to cover the cost of required permanent public
improvements, in accordance with §
155.308. A TEMPORARY PUBLIC FACILITY is any facility not constructed to the
applicable city or zone standard;
         (c)   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city or
a third party (for example, owners of lots) to construct public facilities that
were required as part of the approved development proposal; and
         (d)   The application for phased development approval shall be
reviewed concurrently with the tentative plan and plat application, and the
decision may be appealed in the same manner as the tentative plan and plat.
   (L)   Ownership.
      (1)   The tract or tracts of lands included in a proposed PUD application
must be in one ownership or control, or the subject of a joint application by
the owners of all the property included.
      (2)   The holder of a written option to purchase shall be deemed the
owner of such land for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.352 FINAL PUD PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAT
APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   (a)   Within one year after the granting of tentative PUD approval,
the applicant shall file with the Planning Official a final PUD application for
the entire development or, when submission in stages has been authorized, for
the first stage of development.
         (b)   The final PUD application shall conform in all major respects
with the tentative PUD application.
         (c)   In addition to the information and material required by §
155.282(D), the application shall also indicate all owners of record, contract
purchasers, holders of options, and proposed developers.
         (d)   Final PUD applications shall be accompanied by the filing fee to
defray the cost of processing the application, and shall include the following
information:
            1.   One copy of the final plat showing each tax lot created and a
reproducible transparency of the final plan(s);
            2.   A final subdivision plat; and
            3.   All documents relating to dedication, improvements,
maintenance agreements, covenants, deed restrictions, and bylaws of
neighborhood associations, cooperatives, and improvements.
   (B)   Review. The Planning Commission shall consider the final PUD
application along with any referrals received concerning the application using
the Type II process.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.353 FINAL PUD PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Approval criteria. Approval of the final PUD plan shall be based on
consistency with the following criteria.
      (1)   The final application shall substantially conform to the tentative
PUD application, the conditions, stipulations, and limitations or changes
required by the order of tentative PUD approval, and all applicable laws and
ordinances.
      (2)   If the application does not comply with the criterion above, the
city may either:
         (a)   1.   Require changes in the final PUD to ensure conformity to
the tentative PUD application, the conditions, stipulations, and limitations or
changes required by the tentative PUD approval, and all applicable laws and
ordinances.
            2.   In so doing, the applicant may provide any necessary waivers
of time and resubmit the revised final application to the city within 45 days
for reconsideration.
         (b)   Disapprove the final PUD application.
   (B)   Limitation of approval. No excavation, grading, construction
improvements, or building permits shall be authorized or issued within an
approved PUD pending compliance with the following:
      (1)   Full compliance with all provisions of this section, including the
execution and filing of all documents required therein;
      (2)   Compliance with the requirements of the building code and §§
155.050 through
155.053,
155.185, and
155.280 through
155.286, and all other applicable laws and regulations; and
      (3)   Full compliance with the approved final PUD application. The
application shall control the issuance of all building permits and shall
restrict the nature, location, and design of all uses.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.354 PROCEDURE TO CHANGE APPROVED FINAL PLAN.
   Changes to the approved plans shall in accordance with §§
155.370 through
155.372.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.355 REVOCATION OF PUD.
   (A)   In the event of a failure to comply with the approved PUD application
or any prescribed condition of approval, including failure to comply with the
stage development schedule, the City Council may initiate a review of the PUD
at a public hearing to determine whether or not its continuation in whole or in
part is in the public interest, and if found not to be shall revoke approval of
the PUD.
   (B)   See §§
155.020 through
155.037. The Code Enforcement Officer will take action necessary and authorized
under enforcement provisions.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
MODIFICATIONS
§ 155.370 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide an efficient appropriate
process that allows for modifying approved applications, land use decisions,
and development plans after their effective date of approval without initiating
repetition of the original application.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.371 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The following development applications approved through the provisions
of §§
155.280 through
155.286 may be modified as provided in the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   Subdivisions, partitions, and property line adjustments;
      (2)   Conditional use permits;
      (3)   Planned unit developments (tentative and final);
      (4)   Recreational vehicle (RV) parks; and
      (5)   Conditions of approval on any of the above application types.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to land use zone changes, text
amendments, temporary use permits, or other permits.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.372 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   An applicant may seek approval of not more than one modification to an
approved application for:
      (1)   Change use category on any portion of the site;
      (2)   Increase residential density;
      (3)   Increase proposed building height within 100 feet of single-family
residential zones;
      (4)   Change access or parking locations affecting exterior driveway or
intersection locations, or off-site traffic circulation;
      (5)   Changes in traffic volume which affect the need for on-site and/or
off-site traffic safety or capacity improvements;
      (6)   Increase square footage of a proposed non-residential use by more
than 10% of approved plans;
      (7)   Reduce usable common or open space;
      (8)   Change perimeter setbacks or lot coverage to the extent that
minimum standards of the underlying land use zone cannot be met;
      (9)   Changes to approved development on slopes greater than 12% to 16%,
and/or within wetlands, riparian areas, and shorelands areas, or relating to
transportation systems;
      (10)   Increase or reduction in pedestrian or bicycle amenities,
recreational facilities, screening, and/or landscaping provisions;
      (11)   Change building heights or locations, proposed interior streets,
parking or utility easement configurations, landscaping, or other interior site
improvements; or
      (12)   Change a condition of approval similar to divisions (A)(1) through
(A)(11) above which the Planning Commission has determined to have detrimental
impacts on adjoining properties.
   (B)   Modification request.
      (1)   A pre-application conference is required for all Type II and Type
III applications. The Planning Official shall determine whether the
modification application shall be processed as a Type II or Type III procedure.
      (2)   The modification request application shall be subject to the same
review procedure that applies to the underlying application under this code,
regardless of the process used to originally approve the underlying
application. Approval shall be based on the criteria used for the initial
project approval, however, the review shall be limited in scope to the
modification request. Notice shall be provided in accordance with the
applicable review procedure.
   (C)   Application submittal requirement.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit an application for modification on forms
provided by the Planning Official.
      (2)   The application shall:
         (a)   Include the information requested on the application form, §
155.282(D), and any provisions of this subchapter that pertain specifically to
the type of modification application submitted;
         (b)   Be filed with a written narrative statement that clearly
explains how the modification affects compliance with the approval criteria and
applicable standards of the original development application, and the reasons
for the modification;
         (c)   Be accompanied by the required fee;
         (d)   Include an impact statement for achieving compliance with all
city codes relating to transportation systems (§
155.231), wetlands (§§
155.145 through
155.154), riparian areas (§§
155.165 through
155.171), and shorelands (§§
155.115 through
155.117); and
         (e)   Include appropriate and necessary plans illustrating
modifications to approved plans, including, but not limited to: existing
conditions plan; preliminary partition or subdivision plat if land division is
included in the development proposal; concept plans; preliminary phasing plan,
including infrastructure phasing if project phasing is proposed; site
development plan; grading and erosion plan; landscape plan; exterior lighting
plan; architectural designs; and floor plans.
   (D)   Notices, hearings, decisions, and appeals of decisions. All applicable
notices, hearings, decisions, and appeals of decisions shall comply with the
provisions of Type II procedures described in §
155.284 or Type III procedures as described in §
155.285.
   (E)   Approval criteria. To approve a modification application, the Planning
Commission or the Planning Commission and the City Council, depending upon
whether the application is processed as a Type II or Type III Procedure, shall
make findings of fact, based on the evidence provided, that the following
criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   The location, size, and functional characteristics of the modified
development can be made reasonably compatible with, and would have a minimal
impact on properties surrounding the subject site;
      (2)   (a)   New elements are provided that functionally compensate for
any negative effects caused by the requested modification.
         (b)   New elements used to compensate for a negative effect shall be
of at least equal value to the elements proposed to be changed.
      (3)   The entire development with the proposed modification shall
demonstrate compliance with the approval criteria of the original application.
   (F)   Conditions of approval. The Planning Commission and/or the City
Council may impose conditions on the approval of a modification application to
ensure compliance with the original approval criteria.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
LAND USE ZONE MAP AMENDMENTS
§ 155.385 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards and procedures
for legislative and quasi-judicial amendments to the land use zone map.
   (B)   Amendments may be necessary from time to time to reflect changing
community conditions, to correct mistakes, or to address changes in the law.
   (C)   A proposed zone change that is quasi-judicial in nature will be
processed using the Type III procedures.
   (D)   A proposed zone change that is legislative in nature will be processed
using the Type IV procedures.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.386 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   All zoning changes shall require an ordinance adopted by the City Council to
make such change. All zone changes shall be recorded on the Comprehensive Plan
land use zone map.
   (A)   Amendments to the land use zone map that affect more than one parcel,
or more than one-half an acre, whichever is greater, are legislative (Type IV)
actions processed pursuant to §
155.286.
   (B)   Amendments to the land use zone map that require an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan are legislative (Type IV) actions processed pursuant to §
155.286.
   (C)   Amendments that do not meet the criteria under divisions (A) or (B)
above may be processed as quasi-judicial amendments (Type III) pursuant to §
155.285.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.387 MAP AMENDMENT APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   Planning Commission review and recommendation, and City Council approval, of
an ordinance amending the land use zone map shall be based on all of the
following criteria:
   (A)   If the proposal involves an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, the
amendment must be consistent with the state-wide planning goals and relevant
Oregon Administrative Rules;
   (B)   The proposal must be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan (the
Comprehensive Plan may be amended concurrently with proposed changes in
zoning);
   (C)   The City Council must find the proposal to be in the public interest
with regard to community conditions; the proposal either responds to changes in
the community, or it corrects a mistake or inconsistency in the Comprehensive
Plan; and
   (D)   The amendment must conform to §
155.389.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.388 RECORD OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The Planning Official shall maintain a record of amendments to the
land use zone map in a format convenient for public use.
   (B)   The amended map shall be made part of the adopting ordinance.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.389 TRANSPORTATION PLANNING RULE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Proposals to amend the land use zone map shall be reviewed to
determine whether they significantly affect a transportation facility pursuant
to O.A.R. 660-0 l 2-0060 (Transportation Planning Rule - TPR).
   (B)   Where the city, in consultation with the applicable roadway authority,
finds that a proposed amendment would have a significant effect on a
transportation facility, the city shall work with the roadway authority and
applicant to modify the request or mitigate the impacts in accordance with the
TPR and applicable law.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
CODE AMENDMENTS
§ 155.400 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A proposed amendment to this code which is quasi-judicial in nature shall be
processed as a Type III decision pursuant to §
155.285. A proposed amendment to this code which is legislative in nature shall
be processed as a Type IV decision pursuant to §
155.286.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.401 CODE AMENDMENT APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   Amendments to this code shall be consistent with the applicable provisions
of the city’s adopted Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
MISCELLANEOUS PERMITS/APPLICATIONS
§ 155.415 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit approval may be granted for structures or uses which are
temporary or seasonal in nature, such as temporary construction trailers and
leasing offices, and seasonal sales such as Christmas tree sales and vegetable
stands. Such activities may have adverse impacts on surrounding property,
therefore some restrictions are necessary. These activities are intended to be
in use for a limited duration not to exceed 12 months, and shall not become a
permanent part of the site. The applicant for a temporary use permit (TUP)
shall submit an application on forms provided by the city. The application
shall:
      (1)   Include the information requested on the application form;
      (2)   Be filed with a detailed written narrative that clearly explains
how the use conforms to the standards and limitations of the underlying zone in
which the use is intended to be located, meets all applicable city and county
health and sanitation requirements, and meets all applicable Building Code
requirements;
      (3)   Include a site plan drawn to scale showing the location of the
temporary use, the entrance(s) and exit(s) from the site, areas to be
designated for parking, and any requested signs; and
      (4)   Be accompanied by the required fee.
   (B)   The three types of temporary uses that require permit approval are:
      (1)   Seasonal and special events. These types of uses required a permit
per event and no event may be permitted for longer than 30 days. Using the Type
II procedure described under §
155.284, the city shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny a temporary
use permit based on findings that all of the following criteria are satisfied:
         (a)   The use does not violate any conditions of approval for the
property (for example, prior development permit approval);
         (b)   The applicant, if not the owner of the property on which the
activity will take place, has proof of the property owner’s permission for the
event;
         (c)   There is sufficient parking to accommodate the temporary use and
other uses existing on the site, pursuant to §§
155.215 through
155.217, without impeding the flow of traffic on any public or private roadway;
         (d)   The use provides adequate vision clearance, as required by the
table in §
155.201(M), and will not obstruct pedestrian access on public streets;
         (e)   Ingress and egress are adequate and do not raise safety concerns
when the proposed use is combined with the other uses of the property, as
required by §
155.201;
         (f)   Shall comply with applicable noise, odor, and nuisance
provisions of the city code and any applicable local fire code;
         (g)   If the attendance is larger than 20 people, the adequate
portable sanitation units shall be provided (for example, one for every 20
people in attendance), but limited to four calendar days or less; and
         (h)   The applicant has obtained any other permits required by the
city code or any other required county or state permits, such as a city
business license, sanitation facility permits, electrical permits, or temporary
road closure permits.
      (2)   Temporary sales office or model home. Using a Type II procedure
under §
155.284, the city may approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application
for the use of any real property within the city as a temporary sales office or
model home for the purpose of facilitating the sale of real property, or model
home in any subdivision or tract of land within the city, based on the
following criteria, and provided that the applicant, if different from the
property owner, has proof of the owner’s permission to place the temporary
sales office or model home on the property:
         (a)   Temporary sales office on the site of an active construction
site or major development project.
            1.   The temporary sales office shall be located within the
boundaries of the subdivision or tract of land in which the real property is to
be sold;
            2.   a.   A temporary use permit for a temporary sales office may
be issued for the length of the project, but for no longer than 12 months; and
               b.   The TUP may be renewed annually so long as the project
remains in active status.
            3.   The property to be used for a temporary sales office shall not
be permanently improved for that purpose; and
            4.   Public health, safety, and welfare shall be protected through
conditions imposed by the city regarding temporary utility connections and
sanitation facilities.
      (b)   Model home.
            1.   The model home shall be located within the boundaries of the
subdivision or tract of land where the real property to be sold is situated;
and
            2.   The model home shall be designed as a permanent structure that
meets all relevant requirements of this code and other applicable codes and
permit requirements.
      (3)   Temporary building. Using a Type II procedure, pursuant to §
155.284, the city may approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application
for a temporary trailer or prefabricated building for use on any real
commercial or industrial property within the city as a temporary office or
space associated with the primary use on the property, but for no other
purpose, based on following criteria and provided that the applicant, if
different than the property owner, has proof of the owner’s permission to place
the temporary building on the property:
         (a)   The temporary trailer or building shall be located within the
boundaries of the parcel of land on which it is located;
         (b)   The primary use on the property to be used for a temporary
building is already developed;
         (c)   Ingress and egress are safe and adequate, and do not raise
safety concerns when the proposed use is combined with the other uses of the
property, as required by §
155.201;
         (d)   There is sufficient parking to accommodate the temporary use of
the building and other uses existing on the site, pursuant to §§
155.215 through
155.217, without impeding the flow of traffic on any public or private roadway;
         (e)   The use of the building will pose no hazard to pedestrians in
the area of the use;
         (f)   The use of the building shall comply with applicable noise,
odor, and nuisance provisions of the city code and any applicable local fire
code;
         (g)   The building complies with applicable building codes and the
applicant has obtained any permits required by the city code or any other
required county or state permits, such as a city business license, sanitation
facility permits, or electrical permits;
         (h)   The building is adequately served by a septic system and water
as applicable; and
         (i)   When a temporary building permit expires, the applicant shall be
required to remove the building, or obtain a new temporary use permit.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.416 HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT.
   The purpose of this section is to encourage those who are engaged in small
commercial ventures which are not subject to acquisition of a conditional use
permit and which could not necessarily be sustained if it were necessary to
lease commercial quarters, or which, by the nature of the venture, are
appropriate in scale and impact to be operated within a residence. Home
occupations are encouraged for their contribution in reducing the number of
vehicle trips often generated by conventional businesses. They are allowed by
right in all residential units (dwellings), subject to review under the Type I
process described in §
155.283, applying the following standards.
   (A)   Appearance of residence.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be restricted to lawfully built enclosed
structures.
      (2)   The home occupation shall not result in any structural alterations
or additions to a structure that will change its primary use or building code
occupancy classification.
      (3)   The home occupation shall not violate any conditions of development
approval (that is, prior development permit approval).
      (4)   No products produced or sold by the home occupation may be
displayed or visible from outside any structure.
   (B)   Storage.
      (1)   Outside storage of inventory or materials related to the home
occupation cannot be visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
properties.
      (2)   On-site storage of hazardous materials (including toxic, explosive,
noxious, combustible, corrosive, or flammable) beyond those normally incidental
to residential use is prohibited.
      (3)   Storage of inventory or products and all other equipment, fixtures,
and activities associated with the home occupation shall be allowed in any
structure.
   (C)   Employees.
      (1)   Other than family members residing within the dwelling located on
the home occupation site, there shall be no more than one full-time equivalent
employee at the home occupation site at any given time. As used in this
section, the term HOME OCCUPATION SITE means the lot on which the home
occupation is conducted.
      (2)   Additional individuals may be employed by or associated with the
home occupation, so long as they do not report to work or pick up/deliver at
the home.
      (3)   The home occupation site shall not be used as a headquarters for
the assembly of employees for instruction or other purposes, including dispatch
to other locations.
   (D)   Advertising and signs. Signs shall comply with §
155.079.
   (E)   Vehicles, parking, and traffic.
      (1)   (a)   One commercially-licensed vehicle associated with the home
occupation is allowed at the home occupation site.
         (b)   It shall be of a size that would not overhang into the public
right-of-way when parked in the driveway or other location on the home
occupation site.
      (2)   There shall be no more than four commercial vehicle deliveries to
or from the home occupation site daily. There shall be no commercial vehicle
deliveries during the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one client or customer vehicle at any
one time, and no more than eight per day at the home occupation site. There
shall be no client or customer vehicles parked in the city’s right-of-way.
   (F)   Business hours. There shall be no restriction on business hours,
except that clients or customers are permitted at the home occupation from 7:00
a.m. to 7:00 p.m. only, subject to divisions (A) through (E) above.
   (G)   Prohibited home occupation uses.
      (1)   Any activity that produces radio, television, or other electronic
interference, noise, glare, vibration, smoke, dust, and/or odor beyond
allowable levels as determined by local, state, or federal standards, or that
can be detected beyond the property line is prohibited. Any activity that
produces hazardous waste is prohibited.
      (2)   Any activity involving on-site retail sales, including garage sales
exceeding the thresholds of a temporary use, is prohibited, except that the
sale of items that are incidental to a permitted home occupation is allowed.
For example, the sale of lesson books or sheet music from music teachers, art
or craft supplies from arts or crafts instructors, computer software from
computer consultants, and similar incidental items for sale by home business
are allowed.
      (3)   The following uses, and uses with similar objectionable impacts
because of motor vehicle traffic, noise, glare, odor, dust, smoke, or vibration
are prohibited:
         (a)   Ambulance service;
         (b)   Animal hospital, veterinary services, kennels, or animal
boarding;
         (c)   Auto and other vehicle repair, including vehicle body work and
painting; and
         (d)   Repair, reconditioning, or storage of motorized vehicles, boats,
recreational vehicles, airplanes, or large equipment.
   (H)   Enforcement. Consistent with state law, the Code Enforcement Officer,
or designee, may visit and inspect the site of home occupations when the city
has received a complaint to ensure compliance with all applicable regulations
during normal business hours, and with reasonable notice. Code violations will
be processed in accordance with §§
155.020 through
155.037.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.417 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   Using a Type I procedure, pursuant to §
155.283, the Planning Official, or his or her designee, may approve, approve
with conditions, or deny an application for the temporary occupancy of a
recreational vehicle or travel trailer in the residential zone. SHORT-TERM
STAYS, defined as 28 or fewer consecutive days, are exempt. Manufactured home
(mobile homes) are not eligible for temporary occupancy permits. The following
procedures and conditions shall be complied with in the temporary occupancy of
recreational vehicles and travel trailers.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers, regardless of location in
the Residential Zone or other standards imposed by this chapter, may be allowed
temporary occupancy on an R-1 lot with permission of the owner of the lot for
some period of time, but not more than one year, to provide shelter while a
primary residential structure is under construction, for temporary housing
subsequent to a disaster, for short-term occupancy where a more permanent
facility would be inappropriate, or for other good cause as determined by the
Planning Official.
      (1)   (a)   An approved method of wastewater disposal, such as a self-
contained unit, chemical, or toilet or portable toilet, is required if the
recreational vehicle or travel trailer is not served by an approved septic
system.
         (b)   This provision does not waive any other permit requirements of
the city, the county, the state, or federal agencies.
      (3)   The recreational vehicle or travel trailer shall not be parked in,
or in any way obstruct, any public right-of-way, and the recreational vehicle
or travel trailer must be sited to conform to all the city residential zone
setback requirements, and shall maintain a minimum of ten feet between it and
any structure.
      (3)   The Planning Official may impose specific siting requirements if
the proposed siting would violate the city code.
      (4)   The Planning Official may grant permit extensions in monthly
increments up to one year for temporary occupancy of a recreational vehicle or
travel trailer, provided there have been no unresolved violations of any the
city code.
      (5)   Planning Official decisions may be appealed to the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   (1)   A recreational vehicle or travel trailer in the Residential Zone
may be allowed a temporary occupancy permit for the undefined term of a
hardship suffered by an existing resident. As used in this section, HARDSHIP
may include medical care of an aged or infirm person or persons.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide written verification of the hardship
(statement from doctor, therapist, or other healthcare professional regarding
the need for assistance) annually.
      (3)   Within 30 days after the hardship ceases to exist, the temporary
occupancy shall cease.
   (C)   Residing in a recreational vehicle or travel trailer for an unlimited
period of time is allowed if the unit is located in a mobile home or
recreational vehicle park and lawfully connected to water, septic, and
electrical systems.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARKS
§ 155.430 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Provide rules, regulations, and standards governing the approval of
recreational vehicle parks;
   (B)   Carry out the city’s development pattern, as envisioned by the
Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Encourage efficient use of land resources, full utilization of urban
services, and transportation options;
   (D)   Promote the public health, safety, and general welfare through orderly
and efficient urbanization;
   (E)   Lessen or avoid traffic congestion, and secure safety from fire,
flood, pollution, and other dangers;
   (F)   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land, and
facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water supply, sewage, and
drainage; and
   (G)   Encourage the conservation of energy resources.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.431 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   RV parks may be established in the Community Commercial (C-1) Zone on
lots/parcels of five acres or more through the approval process described in §
155.432.
   (B)   RV parks approval shall be processed through a two-step process: The
tentative site plan (considered using the Type III process) and the final site
plan (considered using the Type II process).
   (C)   The tentative site plan must be approved before the final site plan
can be submitted for approval consideration; and
   (D)   The final site plan shall address all conditions of approval of the
preliminary site plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.432 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Review of tentative site plan.
      (1)   Review of a tentative site plan for an RV park shall be processed
with a Type III procedure under §
155.285.
      (2)   All tentative site plans shall be reviewed using approval criteria
contained in §
155.434.
   (B)   Review of final site plan. Review of a final site plan for RV parks
shall be processed by means of a Type II procedure under §
155.284, using the approval criteria in §
155.436.
   (C)   Tentative site plan approval period. The tentative site plan approval
shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of approval. The
tentative site plan shall lapse if a final site plan has not been submitted
within a one-year period.
   (D)   Modifications and extensions. The applicant may request changes to the
approved tentative site plan or conditions of approval following the procedures
and criteria provided in §§
155.370 through
155.372. The Planning Official shall, upon written request by the applicant and
payment of the required deposits, grant one extension of the approval period
not to exceed one year, provided that:
      (1)   Any changes to the tentative site plan follow the procedures in §§
155.370 through
155.372;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted written intent to file a final site
plan within the one-year extension period;
      (3)   An extension of time will not prevent the lawful development of
abutting properties;
      (4)   There have been no changes to the applicable code provisions on
which the approval was based. If such changes have occurred, a new tentative
site plan application shall be required; and
      (5)   The extension request is made before expiration of the original
approved plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.433 TENTATIVE SITE PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the application submission requirements at §
155.282(D), the application to construct a new park or to expand an existing
park shall be accompanied by a plot plan and six copies showing the general
layout of the entire park and drawn to a scale not smaller than one inch
representing 40 feet.
   (B)   The drawing shall show the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person who prepared the plan;
      (2)   The name of the park and address;
      (3)   The scale and a north point of the plan;
      (4)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the park and adjacent
properties;
      (5)   Boundaries and dimensions of the park;
      (6)   The location and dimensions of each unit site, with designation of
each site by number, letter, or name;
      (7)   The location and dimensions of each existing or proposed building;
      (8)   The location and width of park streets;
      (9)   The location and width of walkways;
      (10)   The location of each lighting fixture for lighting the park;
      (11)   The location of recreational areas and buildings and area of
recreational park;
      (12)   The location and type of landscaping plantings, fences, walls, or
combination of any of these, or other screening materials;
      (13)   The location of the point of diversion for the water source;
      (14)   The location of the septic systems and drain fields;
      (15)   The location of public telephone service for the park; and
      (16)   An enlarged plot plan of a typical unit site, showing the location
of the pad, any patio, storage space, parking area, sidewalks, utility
connections, and landscaping.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.434 TENTATIVE SITE PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   Using the Type III process described under §
155.285, the city may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a tentative
site plan based on the following approval criteria:
   (A)   (1)   The proposed tentative site plan complies with all of the
applicable Development Code sections and other applicable ordinances and
regulations.
      (2)   At a minimum, the provisions of this subchapter and the applicable
§§
155.050 through
155.053 and
155.185 shall apply. Where a variance is necessary to receive tentative site
plan approval, the application shall also comply with the relevant provisions
of §
155.450.
   (B)   The proposed site plan name is not already recorded for another park
in the county west of Mapleton.
   (C)   The proposed streets, sidewalks, bicycle lanes, pathways, utilities,
and surface water management facilities are laid out so as to conform or
transition to the plats of subdivisions, and maps of partitions already
approved for adjoining property as to width, general direction, and in all
other respects. All proposed public improvements and dedications are identified
on the preliminary site plan.
   (D)   Recreational vehicle (RV) park may not be created on a lot or parcel
of fewer than five acres in area.
   (E)   (1)   One manufactured home site or stick built home site is allowed
in the park and shall contain at least 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Each RV site shall contain at least 2,000 square feet.
   (F)   No RV or accessory shall be located closer than 25 feet from a park
property line abutting on a public street and ten feet from all other park
boundary lines.
   (G)   No RV park shall be established on any site that does not have
frontage on and access to a county or public street.
   (H)   (1)   There shall be one or more outdoor recreation areas easily
accessible to all park residents and available for year-round recreational use
in parks with 20 or more sites.
      (2)   Recreation areas shall contain a minimum of 5,000 square feet.
   (I)   Sites will be crushed rock as a minimum.
   (J)   Accessories shall be limited to awnings, cabanas, patios, carports,
garages, or storage buildings. No structural additions shall be built on or
become part of any recreational vehicle.
   (K)   (1)   Every RV park shall provide an ornamental, sight-obscuring
fence, wall, evergreen, or other suitable screening/planting along all park
boundaries except for points of ingress and egress.
      (2)   Perimeter walls or fences shall be at least six feet and less than
12 feet in height.
      (3)   Evergreen planting used as the required fencing shall be at least
five feet and less than 12 feet in height, and shall be maintained in a living
condition for the life of the RV park.
   (L)   (1)   One sign not exceeding 64 square feet in area will be allowed on
a property under one ownership to designate the name of the RV park. The sign
may be indirectly lighted, but shall be non-flashing.
      (2)   Incidental signs for the information and convenience of tenants and
the public relative to parking, traffic movement, the office, lavatories, and
the like are allowed, provided such signs do not exceed three square feet.
   (M)   Non-residential uses within an RV park are subject to the provisions
of §§
155.095 through
155.103.
   (N)   All RV parks shall be designed based on the need to minimize the risk
of flood damage. No new site shall be created entirely within a floodway. All
new sites shall be usable without requiring development within the floodway.
Development in a 100-year floodplain shall comply with Federal Emergency
Management Agency requirements, including filling to elevate structures above
the base flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining such
approvals from the appropriate agency before city approval of the final site
plan.
   (O)   Where an RV park is located in or near areas prone to inundation, and
the base flood elevation has not been provided or is not available from another
authoritative source, it shall be prepared by a qualified professional, as
determined by the city.
   (P)   All sites shall have adequate utilities and facilities constructed to
prevent or minimize flood damage to electrical and telephone systems, and the
like.
   (Q)   All RV park proposals will have adequate surface water drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. Water quality or quantity control
improvements may be required by the state and/or DEO.
   (R)   (1)   The city may approve a time schedule for developing an RV park
in phases, but in no case shall the actual construction time period (that is,
for required public improvements, utilities, or streets) for any RV park phase
be greater than two years without reapplying for a tentative site plan.
      (2)   The criteria for approving a phased land division proposal are:
         (a)   Public facilities shall be constructed in conjunction with or
prior to each phase;
         (b)   The development and occupancy of any phase dependent on the use
of temporary public facilities shall require City Council approval. Temporary
facilities shall be approved only upon city receipt of bonding or other
assurances to cover the cost of required permanent public improvements, in
accordance with §
155.308. A TEMPORARY PUBLIC FACILITY is any facility not constructed to the
applicable city or zone standard;
         (c)   The phased development shall not result in requiring the city to
construct public facilities that were required as part of the approved
development proposal; and
         (d)   The application for phased development approval shall be
reviewed concurrently with the tentative site plan application, and the
decision may be appealed in the same manner as the tentative site plan.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.435 VARIANCES AUTHORIZED.
   Adjustments to the standards of this subchapter shall be processed in
accordance with §§
155.465 through
155.470. Applications for variances shall be submitted at the same time an
application for the RV park is submitted.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.436 FINAL SITE PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Submission requirements. Final site plans shall be reviewed and
approved pursuant to a Type II procedure under §
155.284. The applicant shall submit the final site plan within one year of the
approval of the tentative site plan as provided by §
155.417.
   (B)   Final site plan submission requirements.
      (1)   At the time of application for a final site plan for an RV park,
the applicant shall submit six copies of the following required detailed plans:
         (a)   New structures;
         (b)   Water supply and sewage disposal systems, and primary and
replacement septic drainage fields;
         (c)   Electrical systems;
         (d)   Road, sidewalk, and patio construction;
         (e)   The drainage system; and
         (f)   Recreational area improvements.
      (2)   The replacement of existing or construction of new stick-built or
manufactured home-type structures situated within the park shall be subject to
the requirements of the State Structural Specialty Code or the State
Manufactured Dwelling Specialty Code, or other controlling state codes.
   (C)   Approval criteria. By means of a Type II procedure, the final site
plan shall be approved or denied based on findings regarding compliance with
the following criteria:
      (1)   The final site plan complies with the approved tentative site plan,
and all conditions of approval have been satisfied;
      (2)   All public improvements required by the tentative site plan have
been installed and approved by the city. Alternatively, the developer has
provided a performance guarantee in accordance with §
155.438;
      (3)   The streets for public use are dedicated without reservation or
restriction, other than reversionary rights upon vacation of any such street
and easements for public utilities;
      (4)   The streets held for private use have been approved by the city as
conforming to the tentative site plan;
      (5)   The final site plan contains a dedication to the public of all
public improvements, including, but not limited to, streets, public pathways
and trails, access reserve strips, and storm drainage;
      (6)   The applicant has provided copies of all recorded homeowners’
association covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) deed restrictions,
private easements and agreements (for example, for access, common areas,
parking, and the like), and other recorded documents pertaining to common
improvements recorded and referenced on the final site plan;
      (7)   The final site plan complies with the applicable sections of this
code (that is, there have been no changes in land use or development resulting
in a code violation since tentative site plan approval);
      (8)   Certification by the state and the county, as applicable, that a
water and sewage disposal system is available to each and every site depicted
on the site plan; or bond, contract, or other assurance has been provided by
the applicant to the city that such services will be installed in accordance
with §§
155.230 through
155.237, and the bond requirements of §
155.438. A registered professional engineer, licensed by the state, subject to
review and approval by the city, shall determine the amount of the bond,
contract, or other assurance by the applicant; and
      (9)   The final site plan contains an affidavit by the surveyor who
surveyed the land, represented on the site plan to the effect the land was
correctly surveyed and marked with proper monuments as provided by O.R.S.
Chapter 92, and indicating the initial point of the survey, and giving the
dimensions and kind of such monument, and its reference to some corner
established by the U.S. Geological Survey or giving two or more permanent
objects for identifying its location.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.437 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following procedures apply to RV parks when public improvements are
required as a condition of approval: Before city approval is certified on the
final site plan, all required public improvements shall be installed,
inspected, and approved. Alternatively, the developer shall provide a
performance guarantee, in accordance with §
155.438.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.438 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Performance guarantee required. When a performance guarantee is
required under §
155.437, the applicant shall file an assurance of performance with the city
supported by one of the following:
      (1)   An irrevocable letter of credit executed by a financial institution
authorized to transact business in the state;
      (2)   A surety bond, executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state, which remains in force until the surety company is
notified by the city in writing that it may be terminated; or
      (3)   Cash in an escrow account or payment to the city.
   (B)   Determination of sum. The assurance of performance shall be for a sum
determined by the city as required to cover the cost of the improvements and
repairs, including related engineering and incidental expenses.
   (C)   Itemized improvement estimate. The developer shall furnish to the city
an itemized improvement estimate, certified by a registered civil engineer
licensed by the state, to assist the city in calculating the amount of the
performance assurance.
   (D)   Agreement. An agreement between the city and developer shall be
recorded with the final site plan that stipulates all of the following:
      (1)   Specifies the period within which all required improvements and
repairs should be completed;
      (2)   A provision that if work is not completed within the period
specified, the city may complete the work and recover the full cost and
expenses from the applicant;
      (3)   Stipulates the improvement fees and deposits that are required; and
      (4)   As an option, provides for the construction of the improvements in
stages and for the extension of time under specific conditions therein stated
in the agreement. This agreement may be prepared by the city, or in a letter
prepared by the applicant. It shall not be valid until it is signed and dated
by the applicant, approved by the City Council, and signed by the Mayor.
   (E)   When developer fails to perform. In the event the developer fails to
carry out all provisions of the agreement and the city has un-reimbursed costs
or expenses resulting from such failure, the city shall call on the bond, cash
deposit, or letter of credit for reimbursement.
   (F)   Termination of performance guarantee. The developer shall not cause
termination of nor allow expiration of the guarantee without having first
secured written authorization from the city.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
EXCEPTIONS
§ 155.450 EXCEPTION TO CODE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter cannot provide standards to fit every potential
development situation. The city’s varied geography and complexities of land
development require flexibility.
      (2)   This section, and §§
155.465 through
155.470, and
155.485 through
155.488, provides that flexibility while ensuring that the purposes and intent
of the development standards are met.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of a variance and this section, and §§
155.465 through
155.470, and
155.485 through
155.488, shall be to prevent or to lessen such practical difficulties and
unnecessary physical hardships which are inconsistent with the objectives of
this chapter.
      (2)   A practical difficulty or unnecessary physical hardship may result
from the size, shape, or dimensions of a site or the location of existing
structures thereon, from geographic, topographic, or other physical conditions
on the site or in the immediate vicinity.
   (C)   (1)   The standards for non-conforming uses and development are
intended to provide some relief from code requirements for older developments
that do not comply.
      (2)   In §§
155.485 through
155.488, a non-conforming structure or use applies to the entire structure when
any part of said structure is found to be non-conforming.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
VARIANCES
§ 155.465 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A variance shall not be granted as a substitute for, or in lieu
of, a change in zone. A variance does not apply to use regulations.
      (2)   A variance may be granted for a regulation prescribed by this
chapter with respect to the following:
         (a)   Fences, hedges, walls, or landscaping;
         (b)   Site area, width, depth, square footage, frontage, and building
coverage;
         (c)   Front, side, or rear yards;
         (d)   Height of structures;
         (e)   Accessory buildings;
         (f)   Parking requirements;
         (g)   Width of rights-of-way and roadways; and
         (h)   Outdoor lighting.
   (B)   A variance may only be granted to meet the minimum exception necessary
to mitigate the hardship or practical difficulties.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend that conditions of
approval be imposed on the variance.
      (2)   Adherence to the submitted plans as approved is required. Any
departure from these conditions of approval and approved plans constitutes a
violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   A valid variance supersedes conflicting provisions of subsequent
rezoning or amendments to this chapter unless otherwise specifically provided
by the provisions of this subchapter or the conditions of approval to the
variance.
   (E)   A new application which is substantially similar to an application
which has been withdrawn by the applicant or has been denied or revoked shall
not be re-filed within 12 months of the date of withdrawal, revocation, or
denial unless the City Council determines there is good and sufficient cause to
allow a refiling.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.466 APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The variance application shall conform to the requirements for Type
III applications (§
155.285). The application for a variance shall be made in writing to the
Planning Official by the owner(s) of the land in consideration or their agent
(s), duly authorized in writing.
   (B)   The applicant shall set forth in a detailed written narrative:
      (1)   The practical difficulties and/or physical hardships involved;
      (2)   Existing conditions on the site;
      (3)   Reasons for a variance being the most practicable solution to the
problem; and
      (4)   Any other pertinent information requested by the Planning Official.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.467 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   Upon receipt of a complete application for a variance, a public hearing, or
hearings, shall be scheduled in accordance with the provisions of a Type III
procedure (§
155.285), except as otherwise specified in this chapter (see §
155.305 authorizing approval through the Type II process in conjunction with a
land division).
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.468 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend approval of a variance to a
regulation prescribed by this chapter when, on the basis of the application,
and investigation and evidence submitted, the Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   Strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified
requirement would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and
would be inconsistent with the purpose of this subchapter.
      (2)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property involved, which do not apply generally to other
properties in the same zone; or
      (3)   (a)   The granting of the variance will not constitute a grant of
special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties
classified in the same zone.
         (b)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, and welfare, or be materially injurious to properties or
improvements on the near adjacent property.
   (B)   A variance shall not be required for legal non-conforming structures
to the extent specified in §§
155.485 through
155.488.
   (C)   Condition may be imposed in connection with a variance as deemed
necessary to address the approval criteria above.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.469 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A variance shall become effective on the City Council’s final decision or
the applicant’s appeal period is resolved.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.470 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   (1)   Authorization of a variance shall be void one year after the
date of approval of a variance application, unless a building permit has been
issued and substantial construction pursuant thereto has taken place.
      (2)   Substantial construction shall be considered to be completion of a
building foundation.
      (3)   The applicant may apply to the Planning Commission for an extension
of one year maximum duration based on compliance with the following criteria:
         (a)   The request for an extension is made in writing prior to
expiration of the original approval;
         (b)   There are special or unusual circumstances that exist which
warrant an extension; or
         (c)   No material changes of surrounding land uses or zoning has
occurred.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may deny the request for an extension of a
variance if new land use regulations have been adopted that affect the
applicant’s proposal.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
NON-CONFORMING USES AND DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.485 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   There were lots, structures, and uses that were lawful before
the effective date of this chapter, or amendment hereto, but which have become
either prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the new terms and conditions
of this chapter.
      (2)   They shall hereafter be referred to as pre-existing, non-conforming
uses, buildings, or lots.
   (B)   (1)   This subchapter provides standards and procedures for the
continuation of uses and developments that are lawfully established but do not
comply with current provisions and standards of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   This subchapter is intended to protect public health, safety,
and general welfare, while allowing reasonable use of private property.
         (b)   This subchapter contains three sections, as follows:
            1.   Non-conforming uses (for example, the industrial use in
residential zone) are subject to §
155.486;
            2.   Non-conforming buildings (for example, the structure does not
meet setback or height standards) are subject to §
155.487; and
            3.   Non-conforming lots (for example, the lot is smaller than
minimum area standard) are subject to §
155.488.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.486 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Where a use of land exists that would not be permitted under the current
code, but was lawful at the time it was established, the use may continue,
provided it conforms to the following provisions:
   (A)   Expansion of non-conforming use limited.
      (1)   A pre-existing, non-conforming use may make an expansion of the
existing structure for the same use up to 25% of the existing square footage of
floor area.
      (2)   Expansion of a pre-existing, non-conforming use requires approval
of a conditional use permit under the provisions at §§
155.325 through
155.330.
         (a)   Any pre-existing non-conforming use may be extended throughout
any part of a building, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land
outside such building.
         (b)   If setback intrusion is the non-conforming use, remodeling,
additions, or enlargements are allowed as long as the setback encroachment is
not increased.
   (B)   Location of non-conforming use. A non-conforming use shall not be
moved in whole or in part from one lot to another lot, except as to bring the
use into conformance with this code.
   (C)   Discontinuation or abandonment of non-conforming use. A non-conforming
use that is discontinued for any reason other than fire or other catastrophe
beyond the owner’s control for any 12 consecutive months shall be deemed
abandoned and shall no longer be an allowed use.
   (D)   Application of code criteria and standards to non-conforming use. Once
the city deems a use abandoned, pursuant to division (C) above, any subsequent
use of the subject lot and structure shall conform to the current standards and
criteria of this chapter and the non-conforming use shall not be allowed to
resume, in whole or in part, under the same or different ownership or
management; any such activity is a violation of this subchapter and subject to
enforcement proceedings under §§
155.020 through
155.037.
   (E)   Change of non-conforming use. A change from one non-conforming use to
another non-conforming use requires approval of a conditional use permit under
the provisions at §§
155.325 through
155.330.
(Ord. 259, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.487 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   This section regulates non-conforming development, which includes
buildings that lawfully existed before the effective date of this chapter, or
amendment hereto, that could not be built under the provisions of this code
today.
   (B)   Examples include restrictions on lot area, lot coverage, location on a
lot, setbacks, height, yard, access parking, landscaping, or other physical
restriction or requirement. If the building was lawful when constructed it may
remain on the site so long as it remains otherwise lawful and complies with the
following.
      (1)   Alterations.
         (a)   Additional structures for fencing, covering, or visually
improving a legal non-conforming, or structure and premises in combination,
which will not extend the size, area, or operation of the non-conformity and
will not materially prolong its economic life, may be allowed.
         (b)   A non-conforming structure shall not be enlarged or altered in
any way that increases its non-conformity.
      (2)   Destruction of non-conforming buildings.
         (a)   In the event of damage or destruction due to fire or other
disaster, a non-conforming building or structure may be replaced in accordance
with current Building Codes.
         (b)   Replacement shall be commenced within two years of the date of
destruction and shall be diligently followed to completion.
         (c)   The Planning Commission, with a written request of the
applicant, may extend the period on additional one year.
         (d)   Nothing in these provisions is to be construed as allowing the
replacement of an additional or other single-family dwelling which may be
located on the same parcel of land.
      (3)   Repairs and maintenance.
         (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building, or part
thereof, declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the
public safety.
         (b)   1.   On any legal non-conforming structure, or structure devoted
in whole or in part to any legal non-conforming use, work may be done on
ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of walls, fixtures, wiring, or
plumbing to an extent not exceeding an accumulative total of 75% of the current
assessed true cash value of the building.
            2.   Provided, that the cubic volume of the building as it existed
at the time it became non-conforming shall not be increased.
      (4)   Definition of replace.
         (a)   As used in this section, REPLACE shall mean to rebuild a
structure such that it is brought back to its original use.
         (b)   In replacing a damaged non-conforming structure, the structure
does not need to conform to the prior design, but the design may not be altered
in any manner that increases its non-conformity.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.488 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Any lot having an area or dimension less the minimum one acre shall be
designated a building site, provided the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The lot is shown on an officially approved and recorded subdivision
map;
      (2)   A deed or a valid contract of sale is recorded with the county; and
      (3)   The lot can meet the city code building setback requirements and
the county on-site wastewater requirements.
   (B)   No lot or combination of contiguous lots, either vacant or containing
a single-family or multi-family dwelling, shall be replatted so that an
undersized lot is created, nor shall a lot be replatted if setbacks or
dimensions less than the minimum one acre would result.
   (C)   (1)   If a lot is non-conforming for the sole reason it is less than
one acre in size, the conditional use permit approval process may be used to
allow intrusion of up to 20% into standard setbacks.
      (2)   This 20% allowance does not apply in shoreland or riparian areas.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
LOT AND STREET DIAGRAMS
§ 155.500 LOT TYPES, DEPTH, WIDTH.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1482.jpg]
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.501 STANDARD, WEDGE/TRIANGLE, IRREGULAR LOTS.
   (A)   Standard lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1488.jpg]
   (B)   Wedge/triangle lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1486.jpg]
   (C)   Irregular lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1484.jpg]
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.502 LOT COVERAGE, BUILDABLE AREA.
   LOT COVERAGE is the area of a lot covered by impervious surfaces and as
allowed by the applicable land use zone standards found in §
155.070.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1490.jpg]
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.503 STREET TYPES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1492.jpg]
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.504 VISION CLEARANCE DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/57cd9ec6dfdfaa6125373819764e5bb35f9c3c3a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1494.jpg]
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any section or provision of the
city code, where no other penalty is set forth, may be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500 for any one offense, each day constituting a separate offense.
   (B)   The penalty for the violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be in an amount of not more than $500 for each offense or, in the case of a
continuing offense, not more than $500 for each day of the offense. Each day’s
violation constitutes a separate offense. The abatement of the violation is not
a penalty for violation of this chapter provisions, but is an additional
remedy. Imposition of a penalty does not relieve a person of the duty to abate
the violation.
(Ord. 259, passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
IV.   PUBLIC WAYS
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Hearing: Government Lot 7, Section 3, Township 20 South,
8A       9-14-1964   Range 12 W.W.M., Lane County, Oregon.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
8B       10-5-1964   Declaration: See Ord. 8A.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Hearing: That part of Government Lot 1, Section 2,
10       5-3-1964    Township 20 South, Range 12 W.W.M. lying north of the Lane
                     County- Douglas County line, all in Lane County, Oregon.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
11       6-7-1965    Declaration: See Ord. 10.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
14       2-7-1966    Hearing: See ordinance for metes and bounds description.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
15       3-7-1966    Declaration: See Ord. 14.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
17       11-6-1967   Election: See ordinance for metes and bounds description.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Hearing: The South one-half of the Southwest one-quarter
                     of the Southwest one- quarter of Section 11, Township 19
18       4-1-1968    south, Range 12 west of the Willamette Meridian, in Lane
                     County, Oregon.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Declaration: See ordinance for metes and bounds
19       5-6-1968    description.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
20       5-6-1968    Declaration: See Ord. 18.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
21       6-3-1968    Declaration: See Ord. 19.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
23       10-7-1968   Hearing: See ordinance for metes and bounds description.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
24       11-18-1968  Declaration: See Ord. 23.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Hearing: The Northwest quarter of the Southwest quarter of
27       1-6-1969    Section 24, Township 19 south, Range 12 west of the
                     Willamette Meridian, in Lane County, Oregon.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
28       2-3-1969    Declaration: See Ord. 27.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
30       4-7-1969    Hearing: See ordinance for metes and bounds description.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
31       5-5-1969    Declaration: See Ord. 30.
                     (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord.  Date         Description
No.   Passed   
7     - -          Granting an electricity franchise [Ordinance missing].
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Granting to Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Co. a telephone franchise for 20
6     4-6-1964     years.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
26    11-18-1968   Granting to Florence Cable TV a cable TV franchise for ten years.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
47    8-12-1976    Amends Ord. 26.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
68    2-12-1981    Amends Ord. 7.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Granting to McCaw Cablevision Limited Partnership - Florence a nonexclusive
80    9-22-1983    franchise to operate and maintain a cable communications system, and repealing
                   Ord. 26.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Granting to Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company a general communications
83    3-8-1984     business franchise.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Granting the Central Lincoln People’s Utility District, a municipal
                   corporation, a franchise to construct and maintain both overhead pole lines and
85    7-12-1984    underground power lines; setting the price for such franchise; and repealing
                   Ords. 7 and 68.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Amending Ord. 80 and approving a transfer, under certain conditions, of a cable
116   3-30-1987    television franchise from McCaw CableVision Limited Partnership - Florence to
                   Cooke Cablevision, Inc.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Amending Ords. 80 and 116, approving a transfer, under certain conditions, of a
126   11-9-1989    cable television franchise from Cooke Cablevision, Inc., to Falcon Cable TV.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Amending Ords. 80, 116, and 126, approving a transfer, under certain
127   1-11-1990    conditions, of a cable television franchise from Cooke Cablevision, Inc., to
                   Falcon Cable Systems Company.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Amending Ord. 83, § 6, the Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company Franchise
130   5-10-1990    Ordinance.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Granting to U.S. West Communications, Inc., a general communication business
147   2-8-1996     franchise, and repealing Ords. 6, 83, and 130.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                   Consenting to the transfer and assignment of a cable television franchise from
148   8-8-1996     Falcon Cable Systems Company, L.P., to Falcon Cable Systems Company II, L.P.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
167   3-11-2004    Granting to Falcon Cable Systems Company, L.P., a cable franchise for ten
                   years.
170   7-8-2004     Granting to Central Lincoln P.U.D. a construction franchise.
Res.               Granting to Falcon Cable Systems Company II, L.P. (Charter Communications) a
2025, 3-19-2025    cable franchise for ten years.
No. 1
271   5-21-2025    Granting to Central Lincoln P.U.D. a construction franchise for utility
                   services.
                  
 
TABLE III: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Calling for an advisory election by city voters on
32       8-4-1969       whether to construct a water system; proposal defeated
                        in subsequent election.
                        (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
                        Vacating a public utility easement platted on Lots 3
166      10-2-2003      and 4, Block 4, third addition to Woahink Acres
                        subdivision.
                       
 
TABLE IV: PUBLIC WAYS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
39       12-14-1972     Vacation of a portion of Gerhard Road.
                        (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
                        Vacation of a portion of Laguna Avenue lying east of a
                        line, which line is a continuation of the westerly
45       11-13-1975     boundary of Lot 12, Block 29, original plat of
                        Westlake, Lane County, Oregon.
                        (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
93       6-12-1986      Vacation of a portion of Larch Street.
                        (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
134      6-13-1991      Vacation of a portion of Alder Drive.
                        (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
                       
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
207      7-8-2010    Vacation of the Samuel Jameson Gateway Road.
212      9-8-2011    Vacation of a portion of Buckskin Road.
217      11-8-2012   Vacation of a portion of Peninsula Road.
257      3-24-2021   Vacation of a portion of Helkat Trail.
263      4-20-2022   Vacation of a portion of Little Woahink Drive.
264      4-20-2022   Vacation of a portion of an unnamed roadway, located in
                     Section 27, Township 19 south, Range 12 west.
                    
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
186      1-11-2007   Adding the P.U.D. suffix to certain property.
189      3-8-2007    Adding the P.U.D. suffix to certain property.
262      - -2022     Changing a parcel of land located across the street from
                     the City Hall on Spruce Street from R-1 to CC.
                    
 
 
TABLE VII: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
188      3-8-2007    Interlocal agreement establishing the West Lane Emergency
                     Operations Group.
231-A    2-11-2016   Shared domestic water right agreement with Woahink Lake.
234      3-10-2016   Correcting Ord. 231-A, shared domestic water right
                     agreement with Woahink Lake.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
Oregon Revised Statutes Section Code Section
Oregon Revised Statutes Section Code Section
30.285                          93.02
                                155.301;
                                155.304;
Chapter 92                      155.306;
                                155.309;
                                155.436
92.010(6)                       155.007
92.010 through 92.190           155.007
92.010(9)                       155.007
92.192                          155.007
93.710                          155.254
133.005                         92.002
161.015                         92.002
183.484                         151.016
Chapter 190                     33.31
192.001 et seq.                 114.37
190.010                         33.01
190.110                         33.01
                                32.006;
192.610 et seq.                 32.009;
                                32.028
195.300                         37.02
195.305                         37.01
195.310 through 195.336         37.01
195.312                         37.03
195.318                         37.09
Chapter 197                     155.286
197.295(1)                      155.007
197.307(5)                      155.074
197.660                         111.15
197.660 through 197.670         155.077
221.230                         34.11
221.230(1)                      34.01
221.230(2)                      34.01
221.410(1)                      153.01
223.205 through 223.295         35.10
223.387                         35.01
223.387 through 223.485         155.007
227.010 et seq.                 153.01
227.010 through 227.180         32.078
227.030                         32.027
227.175(8)                      155.284
227.178                         155.285
Chapter 244                     32.033
Chapter 271                     155.310
Chapter 279A                    33.30
Chapter 279B                    33.30
Chapter 279C                    33.30
279B.055                        33.35
279B.060                        33.35
279A.065                        33.30
279A.065(6)                     33.32
279A.120                        33.33
279A.125                        33.33
279B.220                        33.36
279B.230                        33.36
279B.235                        33.36
279B.400                        33.39
279B.420                        33.39
305.620                         33.01
418.205 through 418.327         155.007
443.400                         155.007
443.400 through 443.460         155.007
443.400 through 443.825         155.007
443.480 through 443.500         155.007
443.705 through 443.825         155.007
446.003                         155.007
446.062                         151.002
446.155 through 446.285         155.074
446.185                         151.002
447.020(2)                      151.002
Chapter 454                     50.07;
                                50.08
455.010 et seq.                 114.03
455.010                         155.074
455.040                         151.005
455.040(1)                      151.002
455.15                          151.001
455.148                         151.016
455.150                         151.016
455.153                         151.002
455.220(2)                      150.02
455.467                         151.016
455.475                         151.009
455.496                         151.002
455.610                         151.002
455.680                         151.002
455.690                         151.020
460.085                         151.002
460.360                         151.002
475.950                         112.02
475B.015                        33.01
475B.110                        33.01
475C.053                        112.03
475C.815                        112.02
475C.833                        112.02
475C.950(6)                     112.03
475C.950(7)                     112.03
476.030                         151.004
479.155(2)                      151.032
479.730(1)                      151.002
479.855                         151.002
480.545                         151.002
498.158                         130.01
Chapter 609                     92.001
609.156                         92.001
609.162                         92.001
609.168                         92.001
657A.250(5)                     155.007
697.105                         33.15
Chapter 700                     50.01
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
34.01              34.01
34.02              34.02
34.03              34.03
34.04              34.04
34.05              34.05
34.06              34.06
34.07              34.07
34.08              34.08
34.09              34.09
34.10              34.10
34.11              34.11
34.12              34.12
34.13              34.13
34.14              34.14
34.15              34.15
34.16              34.16
34.17              34.17
34.18              34.18
34.99              34.99
35.01              35.01
35.02              35.02
35.03              35.03
35.04              35.04
35.05              35.05
35.06              35.06
35.07              35.07
35.08              35.08
35.09              35.09
35.10              35.10
35.11              35.11
35.12              35.12
35.13              35.13
35.14              35.14
35.15              35.15
35.16              35.16
35.17              35.17
35.18              35.18
35.19              35.19
90.01              90.01
90.10              90.10
90.11              90.11
90.12              90.12
90.13              90.13
90.14              90.14
90.99              90.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.08             110.08
110.09             110.09
110.10             110.10
110.11             110.11
110.12             110.12
110.13             110.13
110.14             110.14
110.15             110.15
110.16             110.16
110.99             110.99
130.02             130.02
150.01             150.01
150.10             150.10
150.11             150.11
150.12             150.12
150.13             150.13
152.01             152.01
154.02             154.01
154.03             154.02
154.04             154.03
154.06             154.04
154.07             154.05
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed  Code Section
8           8-21-2024      33.15
9           8-21-2024      33.30 
                           33.39
10          11-20-2024     114.21
2025, No. 1 3-19-2025      TSO Table II
2025, No. 5 6-18-2025      51.11
2025, No. 6 6-18-2025      111.10
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
                        92.001—
                        92.009;
                        92.020—
                        92.024;
                        92.035—
                        92.039;
                        92.050;
241      - -            92.051;
                        92.065—
                        92.072;
                        92.085—
                        92.089;
                        92.100—
                        92.105;
                        92.999
                        155.001—
                        155.007;
                        155.020—
                        155.037;
                        155.050—
                        155.053;
                        155.065—
                        155.079;
                        155.095—
                        155.102;
                        155.115—
                        155.117;
                        155.130—
                        155.132;
                        155.145—
                        155.154;
                        155.165—
                        155.171;
                        155.185;
                        155.200;
                        155.201;
                        155.215—
                        155.217;
                        155.230—
                        155.237;
                        155.250—
259      - -            155.254;
                        155.265;
                        155.280—
                        155.286;
                        155.300—
                        155.311;
                        155.325—
                        155.330;
                        155.345—
                        155.355;
                        155.370—
                        155.372;
                        155.385—
                        155.389;
                        155.400;
                        155.401;
                        155.415—
                        155.417;
                        155.430—
                        155.438;
                        155.450;
                        155.465—
                        155.470;
                        155.485—
                        155.488;
                        155.500—
                        155.504;
                        155.999
6        4-6-1964       TSO Table II
10       5-3-1964       TSO Table I
8A       9-14-1964      TSO Table I
8B       10-5-1964      TSO Table I
11       6-7-1965       TSO Table I
14       2-7-1966       TSO Table I
15       3-7-1966       TSO Table I
17       11-6-1967      TSO Table I
18       4-1-1968       TSO Table I
19       5-6-1968       TSO Table I
20       5-6-1968       TSO Table I
21       6-3-1968       TSO Table I
23       10-7-1968      TSO Table I
24       11-18-1968     TSO Table I
26       11-18-1968     TSO Table II
27       1-6-1969       TSO Table I
28       2-3-1969       TSO Table I
30       4-7-1969       TSO Table I
31       5-5-1969       TSO Table I
32       8-4-1969       TSO Table III
39       12-14-1972     TSO Table IV
45       11-13-1975     TSO Table IV
47       8-12-1976      TSO Table II
61       6-28-1979      152.01
68       2-12-1981      TSO Table II
                        110.01—
73       4-8-1982       110.16;
                        110.99
80       9-22-1983      TSO Table II
83       3-8-1984       TSO Table II
85       7-12-1984      TSO Table II
93       6-12-1986      TSO Table IV
99       12-11-1986     150.10—
                        150.13
                        34.01—
103      12-11-1986     34.18;
                        34.99
105      12-11-1986     35.01—
                        35.19
                        90.10—
106      12-11-1986     90.14;
                        90.99
109      12-11-1986     130.02
116      3-30-1987      TSO Table II
121      3-9-1989       90.10
126      11-9-1989      TSO Table II
127      1-11-1990      TSO Table II
130      5-10-1990      TSO Table II
134      6-13-1991      TSO Table IV
137      5-14-1992      150.01
135      8-14-1992      90.10
147      2-8-1996       TSO Table II
148      8-8-1996       TSO Table II
151      1-23-1997      152.01
154      4-10-1997      154.01—154.07;
                        154.99
155      5-8-1997       90.01
156      9-16-1997      152.01
166      10-2-2003      TSO Table III
167      3-11-2004      TSO Table II
170      7-8-2004       TSO Table II
175      6-9-2005       152.01
183      7-13-2006      150.02
186      1-11-2007      TSO Table VI
188      3-8-2007       TSO Table VII
189      3-8-2007       TSO Table VI
                        154.65—
190      3-8-2007       154.66;
                        154.99
                        111.01—
206      7-8-2010       111.16;
                        111.99
207      7-8-2010       TSO Table V
212      9-8-2011       TSO Table V
217      11-8-2012      TSO Table V
213      11-10-2012     155.001
223      10-10-2013     152.01
226      4-10-2014      152.01
                        51.01—
231-A    2-11-2016      51.13;
                        51.99;
                        TSO Table VII
                        51.02;
234      3-10-2016      51.04;
                        TSO Table VII
                        32.001—
                        32.010;
                        32.025—
                        32.036;
235      4-14-2016      32.050—
                        32.053;
                        32.065;
                        32.075—
                        32.079
228      5-12-2016      50.01—
                        50.12
237      5-12-2016      10.01—
                        10.17
                        154.20—
                        154.29;
233      6-9-2016       154.40—
                        154.52;
                        154.99
                        36.01—
238      6-9-2016       36.16;
                        36.99
240      9-8-2016       130.01
                        113.01—
236      7-14-2016      113.11;
                        113.99
239      12-27-2016     33.01
243      1-12-2017      33.01
244      5-11-2017      10.17
245      9-13-2017      112.01—
                        112.03
                        155.067;
247      7-11-2018      155.080;
                        155.097;
                        155.103
                        153.01—
                        153.10;
                        153.25—
                        153.33;
253      2-12-2020      153.45—
                        153.54;
                        153.65;
                        153.66;
                        153.99
                        151.055—
250      5-27-2020      151.088;
                        151.999
257      3-24-2021      TSO Table V
262      - -2022        TSO Table VI
                        151.001—
261      1-19-2022      151.040;
                        151.999;
263      4-20-2022      TSO Table V
264      4-20-2022      TSO Table V
267      2-21-2024      93.01;
                        93.02
268      2-21-2024      37.01—
                        37.13
                        114.01—
                        114.05;
256-B    8-21-2024      114.20—
                        114.24;
                        114.35—
                        114.44
270      6-4-2025       91.01—
                        91.12
                       
 
