FALLS CITY, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
   Preamble
Chapter I: Names and Boundaries
   1.   Title
   2.   Name
   3.   Boundaries
Chapter II: Powers
   4.   Powers
   5.   Construction
   6.   Distribution
Chapter III: Council
   7.   Council
   8.   Mayor
   9.   Council President
   10.   Rules
   11.   Meetings
   12.   Quorum
   13.   Vote required
   14.   Record
Chapter IV: Legislative Authority
   15.   Ordinances
   16.   Ordinance adoption
   17.   Effective date of ordinances
Chapter V: Administrative Authority
   18.   Resolutions
   19.   Resolution approval
   20.   Effective date of resolutions
Chapter VI: Quasi-judicial Authority
   21.   Orders
   22.   Order approval
   23.   Effective date of orders
Chapter VII: Elections
   24.   Councilors
   25.   Mayor
   26.   State law
   27.   Qualifications
   28.   Nominations
   29.   Terms
   30.   Oath
   31.   Vacancies
   32.   Filling vacancies
Chapter VIII: Appointive Officers
   33.   City Manager
   34.   City Attorney
   35.   Municipal Court and Judge
Chapter IX: Personnel
   36.   Compensation
   37.   Merit systems
Chapter X: Public Improvements
   38.   Procedure
   39.   Special assessments
Chapter XI: Miscellaneous Provisions
   40.   Debt
   41.   Ordinance continuation
   42.   Repeal
   43.   Severability
   44.   Time of effect
PREAMBLE
   We, the voters of Falls City, Oregon exercise our power to the fullest
extent possible under the Oregon Constitution and laws of the state, and enact
this Home Rule Charter.
CHAPTER I: NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1. TITLE.
   This charter may be referred to as the 2014 Falls City Charter.
§ 2. NAME.
   The City of Falls City, Oregon, continues as a municipal corporation with
the name City of Falls City.
§ 3. BOUNDARIES.
   The city includes all territory within its boundaries as they now exist or
are legally modified. The city will maintain as a public record an accurate and
current description of the boundaries.
CHAPTER II: POWERS
§ 4. POWERS.
   The city has all powers that the constitutions, statutes and common law of
the United States and Oregon expressly or impliedly grant or allow the city, as
fully as though this charter specifically enumerated each of those powers.
§ 5. CONSTRUCTION.
   The charter will be liberally construed so that the city may exercise fully
all powers possible under this charter and under United States and Oregon law.
§ 6. DISTRIBUTION.
   The Oregon Constitution reserves initiative and referendum powers as to all
municipal legislation to city voters. This charter vests all other city powers
in the council except as the charter otherwise provides. The council has
legislative, administrative and quasi-judicial authority. The council exercises
legislative authority by ordinance, administrative authority by resolution, and
quasijudicial authority by order. The council may not delegate its authority to
adopt ordinances.
CHAPTER III: COUNCIL
§ 7. COUNCIL.
   The council consists of a mayor and six councilors nominated and elected
from the city at large.
§ 8. MAYOR.
   The mayor presides over and facilitates council meetings, preserves order,
enforces council rules, and determines the order of business under council
rules. The mayor is not a voting member of the council except to break ties and
has veto authority. The Mayor has the power of veto, as provided in section 16
(f). With the consent of council, the mayor appoints members of commissions and
committees established by ordinance or resolution.
   The mayor must sign all records of council decisions. The mayor serves as
the political head of the city government.
§ 9. COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   At its first meeting each year, the council must elect a president from its
membership. The president presides at council meetings in the absence of the
mayor and acts as mayor when the mayor is unable to perform duties.
§ 10. RULES.
   The council must by resolution adopt rules to govern its meetings.
§ 11. MEETINGS.
   The council must meet at least once a month at a time and place designated
by its rules, and may meet at other times in accordance with the rules.
§ 12. QUORUM.
   A majority of the council members, excluding the Mayor, is a quorum to
conduct business, but a smaller number may meet and compel attendance of absent
members as prescribed by council rules and fill vacancies as provided in
section 32.
§ 13. VOTE REQUIRED.
   The express approval of a majority of a quorum of the council is necessary
for any council decision, except when this charter requires approval by a
majority of the council.
§ 14. RECORD.
   A record of council meetings must be kept in a manner prescribed by the
council rules.
CHAPTER IV: LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY
§ 15. ORDINANCES.
   The council will exercise its legislative authority by adopting ordinances.
The enacting clause for all ordinances must state “The City of Falls City
ordains as follows: ”.
§ 16. ORDINANCE ADOPTION.
   a)   Except as authorized by subsection (b), adoption of an ordinance
requires approval by a majority of the council after reading of the ordinance
at two meetings.
   b)   The council may adopt an ordinance at a single meeting by the unanimous
approval of at least a quorum of the council, provided the proposed ordinance
is available in writing to the public at least one week before the meeting.
   c)   Any of the readings of an ordinance may be by title, only, unless a
councilmember present at the meeting requests to have the ordinance read in
full.
   d)   Any substantive amendment to a proposed ordinance made after the first
reading must be read aloud or made available in writing to the public before
the council adopts the ordinance at that meeting.
   e)   After the adoption of an ordinance, the vote of each member must be
entered into the council minutes.
   f)   After adoption of an ordinance, the city custodian of records must
endorse it with the date of adoption and the custodian’s name and title. Within
five days after adoption of an ordinance the mayor must sign it and insert the
date of signature or veto the ordinance. If the mayor vetoes the ordinance, the
mayor must file the reasons in writing with the custodian of records within
three days of the veto. At the first meeting of the council after the veto of
an ordinance the custodian of records must deliver the ordinance to the council
with the mayor’s reasons for the veto. The vetoed ordinance may be repassed by
a vote of four members of the council.
§ 17. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances normally take effect on the 30th day after adoption, or on a
later day provided in the ordinance. An ordinance may take effect as soon as
adopted or on another date less than 30 days after adoption if it contains an
emergency clause.
CHAPTER V: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY
§ 18. RESOLUTIONS.
   The council will normally exercise its administrative authority by approving
resolutions. The approving clause for resolutions may state “The City of Falls
City resolves as follows: ”.
§ 19. RESOLUTION APPROVAL.
   (a)   Approval of a resolution or any other council administrative decision
requires approval by the council at one meeting. A resolution may be read by
title, only, unless a councilmember present at the meeting requests to have the
resolution read in full.
   (b)   Any substantive amendment to a resolution, made after it has been
read, must be read aloud or made available in writing to the public before the
council adopts the resolution at that meeting.
   (c)   After approval of a resolution or other administrative decision, the
vote of each member must be entered into the council minutes.
   (d)   After approval of a resolution, the city custodian of records must
endorse it with the date of approval and the custodian’s name and title.
§ 20. EFFECTIVE DATE OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Resolutions and other administrative decisions take effect on the date of
approval, or on a later day provided in the resolution.
CHAPTER VI: QUASI-JUDICIAL AUTHORITY
§ 21. ORDERS.
   The council will normally exercise its quasi-judicial authority by approving
orders.
   The approving clause for orders may state “The City of Falls City orders as
follows: ”.
§ 22. ORDER APPROVAL.
   (a)   Approval of an order or any other council quasi-judicial decision
requires approval by the council at one meeting.
   (b)   Any substantive amendment to an order must be read aloud or made
available in writing to the public at the meeting before the council adopts the
order.
   (c)   After approval of an order or other council quasi-judicial decision,
the vote of each member must be entered in the council minutes.
   (d)   After approval of an order, the city custodian of records must endorse
it with the date of approval and the custodian’s name and title.
§ 23. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDERS.
   Orders and other quasi-judicial decisions take effect on the date of final
approval, or on a later day provided in the order.
CHAPTER VII: ELECTIONS
§ 24. COUNCILORS.
   The term of a councilor in office when this charter is adopted is the term
for which the councilor was elected. At each general election after the
adoption, three councilors will be elected for four- year terms.
§ 25. MAYOR.
   The term of the mayor in office when this charter is adopted continues until
the beginning of the first odd-numbered year after adoption. At every other
general election after the adoption, a mayor will be elected for a two-year
term.
§ 26. STATE LAW.
   City elections must conform to state law except as this charter or
ordinances provide otherwise. All elections for city offices must be
nonpartisan.
§ 27. QUALIFICATIONS.
   (a)   The mayor and each councilor must be a qualified elector under state
law, and reside within the city for at least one year immediately before
election or appointment to office.
   (b)   No person may be a candidate at a single election for more than one
city office.
   (c)   Neither the mayor nor a councilor may be employed by the city.
   (d)   The council is the final judge of the election and qualifications of
its members.
§ 28. NOMINATIONS.
   The council must adopt an ordinance prescribing the manner for a person to
be nominated to run for mayor or a city councilor position.
§ 29. TERMS.
   The term of an officer elected at a general election begins at the first
council meeting of the year immediately after the election, and continues until
the successor qualifies and assumes the office.
§ 30. OATH.
   The mayor and each councilor must swear or affirm to faithfully perform the
duties of the office and support the constitutions and laws of the United
States and Oregon.
§ 31. VACANCIES.
   The mayor or a council office becomes vacant:
   (a)   Upon the incumbent’s:
      (1)   Death,
      (2)   Adjudicated incompetence, or
      (3)   Recall from the office.
   (b)   Upon declaration by the council after the incumbent’s:
      (1)   Failure to qualify for the office within 10 days of the time the
term of office is to begin,
      (2)   Absence from the city for 30 days without council consent,
      (3)   Absence from all council meetings within a 90-day period,
      (4)   Absence from 5 council meetings in a calendar year,
      (5)   Ceasing to reside in the city,
      (6)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under state law,
      (7)   Conviction of a public offense punishable by loss of liberty,
      (8)   Resignation from the office, or
      (9)   Removal under Section 33(i).
§ 32. FILLING VACANCIES.
   A mayor or councilor vacancy will be filled by appointment by a majority of
the remaining council members within 60 days of the established vacancy. The
appointee’s term of office runs from appointment until expiration of the term
of office of the last person elected to that office. If a disability prevents a
council member from attending council meetings or a member is absence from the
city, a majority of the council may appoint a councilor pro tem.
CHAPTER VIII: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
§ 33. CITY MANAGER.
   a)   The office of city manager is established as the administrative head of
the city government. The city manager is responsible to the mayor and council
for the proper administration of all city business. The city manager will
assist the mayor and council in the development of city policies, and carry out
policies established by ordinances and resolutions.
   b)   A majority of the council must appoint and may remove the manager. The
appointment must be made without regard to political considerations and solely
on the basis of education and experience in competencies and practices of local
government management.
   c)   The manager may be appointed for a definite or an indefinite term, and
may be removed at any time by a majority of the council. The council must fill
the office by appointment as soon as practicable after the vacancy occurs.
   d)   The duties and empowerments of the City Manager will be set by
ordinance. The manager has no authority over the council or over the judicial
functions of the municipal judge.
   e)   The manager and other employees designated by the council may sit at
council meetings but have no vote. The manager may take part in all council
discussions.
   f)   When the manager is temporarily disabled from acting as manager or when
the office of manager becomes vacant, the council must appoint a manager pro
tem. The manger pro tem will be the Mayor until another manager pro-tem is
appointed. The manager pro tem has the authority and duties of manager, except
that a pro tem manager may appoint or remove employees only with council
approval.
   g)   No council member may directly or indirectly attempt to coerce the
manager or a candidate for the office of manager in the appointment or removal
of any city employee, or in administrative decisions regarding city property or
contracts. Violation of this prohibition is grounds for removal from office by
a majority of the council after a public hearing. In council meetings,
councilors may discuss or suggest anything with the manager relating to city
business.
§ 34. CITY ATTORNEY.
   The office of city attorney is established as the chief legal officer of the
city government. A majority of the council must appoint and may remove the
attorney. The attorney must appoint and supervise, and may remove any office
employees of the city attorney.
§ 35. MUNICIPAL COURT AND JUDGE.
   a)   A majority of the council may appoint and remove a municipal judge. A
municipal judge will hold court in the city or other location at such place as
the council directs. The court will be known as the Municipal Court.
   b)   All proceedings of this court will conform to state laws governing
justices of the peace and justice courts.
   c)   All areas within the city and areas outside the city as permitted by
state law are within the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
   d)   The municipal court has jurisdiction over every offense created by city
ordinance. The court may enforce forfeitures and other penalties created by
such ordinances. The court also has jurisdiction under state law unless limited
by city ordinance.
   e)   The municipal judge may:
      1.   Render judgments and impose sanctions on persons and property;
      2.   Order the arrest of anyone accused of an offense against the city;
      3.   Commit to jail or admit to bail anyone accused of a city offense;
      4.   Issue and compel obedience to subpoenas;
      5.   Compel witnesses to appear and testify and jurors to serve for
trials before the court;
      6.   Penalize contempt of court;
      7.   Issue processes necessary to enforce judgments and orders of the
court;
      8.   Issue search warrants; and
      9.   Perform other judicial and quasi-judicial functions assigned by
ordinance.
   f)   The council may appoint and may remove municipal judges pro tem.
   g)   The council may transfer some or all of the functions of the municipal
court to an appropriate state court.
CHAPTER IX: PERSONNEL
§ 36. COMPENSATION.
   The council must authorize the compensation of city officers and employees
as part of its approval of the annual city budget.
§ 37. MERIT SYSTEMS.
   The council by resolution will determine the rules governing recruitment,
selection, promotion, transfer, demotion, suspension, layoff, and dismissal of
city employees based on merit and fitness.
CHAPTER X: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 38 PROCEDURE.
   The council may by ordinance provide for procedures governing the making,
altering, vacating, or abandoning of a public improvement. A proposed public
improvement may be suspended for six months upon remonstrance by owners of the
real property to be specially assessed for the improvement. The number of
owners necessary to suspend the action will be determined by ordinance.
§ 39. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The procedure for levying, collecting and enforcing special assessments for
public improvements or other services charged against real property will be
governed by ordinance.
CHAPTER XI: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 40. DEBT.
   City indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by state law. A charter
amendment is not required to authorize city indebtedness.
§ 41. ORDINANCE CONTINUATION.
   All ordinances consistent with this charter in force when it takes effect
remain in effect until amended or repealed.
§ 42. REPEAL.
   All charter provisions adopted before this charter takes effect are
repealed.
§ 43. SEVERABILITY.
   The terms of this charter are severable. If any provision is held invalid by
a court, the invalidity does not affect any other part of the charter.
§ 44. TIME OF EFFECT.
   This charter takes effect, 20___________ .
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Falls City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal
or state legal holiday.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The area within the
corporate boundaries of the city as presently established or as amended by
ordinance, annexation, or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY,
when used in this code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its
authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Polk County, Oregon.
      DAY. Calendar day unless otherwise indicated as a business day or working
day.
      GOVERNING BODY. City Council.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it;
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy;
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable; and
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME or
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean at least 24- hours notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall take effect as provided in
the city charter. If there is no city charter, all ordinances passed by the
City Council shall take effect as provided by the City Council or applicable
state law.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances are listed following
the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 170, passed 1-2-1979; Ord.
185, passed 4-1-1990)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
         Example: (O.R.S. 192.410)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see O.R.S. 192.314
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500, subject to division (B) below.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a penalty shall, upon conviction, be punished by the
penalty prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   TAXATION
      
34.   GENERAL CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Governance
   
30.001   Rules of procedure
   
30.002   Quorum
   
30.003   Presiding officer
   
30.004   Other elected and appointed officers
   
30.005   Agendas
   
30.006   Order of business
Meeting Time, Location and Frequency
   
30.020   Regular meetings
   
30.021   Special meetings
   
30.022   Emergency meetings
   
30.023   Executive sessions
   
30.024   Work sessions
   
30.025   Holidays
   
30.026   Council recess
   
30.027   Location
   
30.028   Notice
   
30.029   Attendance
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.050   Ordinances
   
30.051   Resolution
Land Use Hearings
   
30.070   General conduct of hearings
   
30.071   Quasi-judicial land use matters
   
30.072   Legislative land use matters
Motions, Debate, Public Comment and Voting
   
30.090   Motions
   
30.091   Debate
   
30.092   Public comment
   
30.093   Voting
Minutes
   
30.110   Generally
   
30.111   Approval
Appointments
   
30.130   Appointments of city staff
   
30.131   Appointments of members to board, commissions and/or committees
Ethics, Decorum, Outside Statements
   
30.150   Ethics
   
30.151   Decorum
   
30.152   Statements to the media and other organizations
Interactions with Staff and City Attorney
   
30.170   Staff
   
30.171   City Attorney
Censure
   
30.190   Censure and removal
Amendments and Repeal
   
30.210   Amendment
   
30.211   Repeal
GENERAL GOVERNANCE
§ 30.001 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by charter, ordinance or these rules, the
procedure for Council meetings, and any subcommittee of a City Council, shall
be guided by Robert's Rules of Order, 11th Edition.
   (B)   Members of the Council are encouraged to avoid invoking the finer
points of parliamentary procedure found within Robert's Rules of Order when
such points will obscure the issues before the Council and confuse members of
the public.
   (C)   Whenever these rules and Robert's Rules of Order conflict, these rules
shall govern.
§ 30.002 QUORUM.
   A quorum is required to conduct official city business.
   (A)   The members of the Council are the City Councilors and Mayor. Fifty-
percent plus one of the members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
Vacancies in office do not count towards determining a quorum.
   (B)   In the event a quorum is not present, the members of Council present
shall adjourn the meeting.
§ 30.003 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside over all meetings. The Mayor shall retain all
rights and privileges of the Office of the Mayor as set out in the City Charter
when acting in this capacity.
   (B)   In the Mayor's absence the president of the Council shall preside over
the meeting. The president of the Council shall retain all rights and
privileges of the Office of the Mayor as set out in the City Charter when
acting in this capacity.
   (C)   If both the Mayor and the president of the Council are absent from the
meeting, the following procedure shall be utilized to determine who is the
presiding officer:
      (1)   The City Recorder shall call the Council to order and call the roll
of the members.
      (2)   Those members of Council present shall elect, by majority vote, a
temporary presiding officer for the meeting.
      (3)   Should either the Mayor or the president of the Council arrive, the
temporary presiding officer shall relinquish control of the meeting immediately
upon the conclusion of the item presently being discussed.
      (4)   The presiding officer shall retain all rights and privileges of a
member of Council when acting in this capacity.
§ 30.004 OTHER ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   City Recorder. The City Recorder shall be the parliamentarian and
shall advise the presiding officer on any questions of order. Additionally, the
City Recorder shall keep the official minutes of the Council.
   (B)   City Manager. The City Manager is required to attend all meetings of
the Council and is permitted to participate in any discussion; however, the
City Manager has no authority to cast a vote in any decision rendered by the
Council.
   (C)   City Attorney. The City Attorney may attend any meeting of the
Council, and will, upon request, give an opinion, either written or oral, on
legal questions.
§ 30.005 AGENDAS.
   The City Manager shall prepare an agenda for every regular meeting, and, if
requested by the presiding officer, for every special meeting.
   (A)   Agendas and informational material for meetings shall be distributed
to the Council at least three days preceding the meeting.
   (B)   No Council approval shall be required for an agenda of any meeting.
   (C)   The City Manager may place routine items and items referred by staff
on the agenda without Council approval or action.
   (D)   The City Manager may remove any items on the consent agenda, any item
of old business, any resolution, or any ordinance placed for first reading from
the agenda at any time prior to the time the meeting is convened. The presiding
officer shall announce such removal under announcements/proclamations.
   (E)   A member of the Council who wishes to have an item placed on the
agenda shall advise the City Manager at least one week prior to the meeting.
§ 30.006 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business for all regular meetings shall be as follows,
however when it appears to be in the best interest of the public, the order of
business may be changed for any single meeting by a majority vote:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Roll call.
      (3)   Announcements/proclamations.
      (4)   Reports of boards, commissions, committees, elected officials and
city employees.
      (5)   Public comment on items on the agenda (other than public hearings).
      (6)   Consent agenda.
      (7)   Items removed from the consent agenda.
      (8)   Ordinances and resolutions.
      (9)   Public hearings.
      (10)   Appointments.
      (11)   Public comment on items not on the agenda.
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Call to order. The presiding chair shall call all meetings of the
Council to order. The call to order shall note the date, time and location of
the meeting so that it may accurately be reflected in the minutes.
   (C)   Roll call. The City Recorder shall conduct a roll call to determine
which members of the Council are present and which are absent.
      (1)   The attendance shall be properly reflected in the minutes.
      (2)   If roll call determines that a quorum is not present, the meeting
shall be adjourned.
   (D)   Announcements/proclamations. Announcements are intended to be
procedural in nature, such as an item being removed from the agenda.
Proclamations are awards or recognition of individuals by the Council.
   (E)   Reports of boards, commissions, committees, elected officials and city
employees. When necessary, reports can be given to the Council by boards,
commissions committees, elected officials and/or city employees.
      (1)   When appropriate, reports to the Council should include written
materials which are provided to the Council at least three days in advance of
the meeting.
      (2)   Oral reports to the Council should generally not exceed ten minutes
in length.
      (3)   The Council may ask questions of the presenter upon conclusion of
the report being given.
   (F)   Public comment.
      (1)   Two periods for public comment will be reserved for every regular
meeting of the Council. Each period shall not exceed a maximum of 30 minutes,
unless a majority of Councilors present vote to extend the time. Subject to the
limitations contained in division (H)(5)(e) of this section, the first period
for public comment shall be limited to items placed on the agenda other than
public hearings, and the second period of public comment shall be used to
comment on any issue of city business, other than agenda items. The presiding
officer may, unless a member of Council objects, allow a person who desires to
make comment on an item not on the agenda to speak during the first comment
period.
      (2)   Persons wishing to speak during public comment must sign the
"speaker's roster" with the person's name and address and the topic upon which
the person wishes to speak, not later than the call to order.
      (3)   Members of the public may speak about any topic during the last
period for public comment, except as provided in division (I)(5)(d) of this
section.
      (4)   If a member of the public wishes to speak on an item that is
scheduled for a public hearing at that same meeting, the speaker shall wait
until that public hearing. Public comment shall not be used to testify about a
quasi-judicial land use matter, to testify on an item that is not a public
matter, to testify on a matter which has been or is scheduled to be heard by a
hearings official, or to provide or gather additional testimony or information
on any matter after the official record has been closed on any matter which has
been the subject of a public hearing.
      (5)   Speakers are limited to three minutes. Generally, the speakers will
be called upon in the order in which they have signed in on the speaker's
roster. Speakers shall identify themselves by their names and by their place of
residence. Speakers may state their mailing address (or the ward in which they
reside). The presiding officer may allow additional persons to speak if they
have not signed the speaker's roster and sufficient time is left in the 30-
minute period.
      (6)   Should there be more speakers than can be heard for three minutes
each during either of the 30-minute periods provided for public comment, the
presiding officer may sort the requests to speak in order to afford the
greatest opportunity for each topic to be heard.
      (7)   Councilors may, after obtaining the floor, ask questions of
speakers during public comment. Councilors shall use restraint when exercising
this option, and shall attempt to limit questioning to no more than three
minutes. The presiding officer may intervene if a councilor is violating the
spirit of this guideline.
      (8)   Speakers may play electronic audio or visual material during the
time permitted for their comment. Speakers may utilize city-provided audio or
visual equipment located in the Council chambers as a part of their comment,
but must provide the materials in a readable format to city staff prior to the
meeting so that it may be installed on the city's equipment to avoid a delay or
disruption of the meeting.
   (G)   Consent agenda. In order to expedite the Council's business, the
approval of minutes and other routine agenda items shall be placed on the
consent agenda.
      (1)   All items on the consent agenda shall be approved by a single
motion, unless an item is pulled for further consideration.
      (2)   Any item on the consent agenda may be removed for separate
consideration by any member of the Council.
      (3)   For the purposes of this rule, separate consideration means any
proposal to adopt a different course of action than that recommended in the
staff report, a determination that debate on a proposed course of action is
deemed desirable, any questions to staff on an item, and any item where a
member of Council must declare a conflict of interest.
   (H)   Ordinances and resolutions. See §§
30.050 and
30.051.
   (I)   Public hearings generally.
      (1)   A public hearing may be held on any matter upon majority vote of
the Council. Public hearings may be held to consider legislative, quasi-
judicial or administrative matters.
      (2)   Persons wishing to speak shall sign the "hearing roster" with the
person's name and address prior to the commencement of the public hearing at
which the person wishes to speak.
      (3)   The City Recorder shall announce at the commencement of any public
hearing the subject of the hearing as it is set forth on the agenda. The
presiding officer shall then declare the hearing open.
      (4)   Each person shall, prior to giving testimony, give his or her name,
shall indicate whether they are a resident of the city, and may give their
address (or identify the ward in which they reside). All remarks shall be
addressed to the Council as a body and not to any member thereof.
      (5)   Speakers at hearings on legislative or administrative matters,
other than legislative land use matters, will be limited to three minutes.
Speakers at a hearing on a quasi-judicial matter, other than a quasi-judicial
land use matter, shall be subject to the following time limits:
         (a)   Staff presentation (15 minutes total).
         (b)   Applicant or affected party (15 minutes). Quasi-judicial hearing
only.
         (c)   Appellant, if other than applicant (ten minutes). Quasi-judicial
hearing only.
         (d)   Other interested persons (three minutes per person).
         (e)   Questions of staff (No time limit).
         (f)   Rebuttal by applicant or party. The scope of rebuttal is limited
to matters which were introduced during the hearing (seven minutes total).
      (6)   Councilors may, after recognition by the presiding officer, ask
clarifying or follow up questions of individuals providing testimony after that
individual has completed his or her testimony. Questions posed by Councilors
should be to provide clarification or additional information on testimony
provided. Questions should not be used as an attempt to lengthen or expand the
testimony of the individual. Councilors shall be expected to use restraint and
be considerate of the meeting time of the council when exercising this option.
The presiding officer may intervene if a Councilor is violating the spirit of
this guideline.
      (7)   Councilors may, after the presentation of testimony of all
interested persons, ask clarifying or follow-up questions of staff. Questions
posed by City Councilors should be to provide clarification or additional
information on testimony provided.
      (8)   The presiding officer may exclude or limit cumulative, repetitious,
or immaterial matter. The presiding officer may order the testimony,
alternating those speaking in favor and those in opposition, or have all
speaking in favor testify, followed by all those in opposition. The presiding
officer, with the approval of the Council, may further limit the time and/or
number of speakers at any public hearing; provided that the presiding officer
shall announce any such restrictions prior to the commencement of the
testimony. In the event of large numbers of interested persons appearing to
testify, the presiding officer, to expedite the hearing, may in lieu of
testimony call for those in favor of the pending proposal or those in
opposition to rise and direct the City Recorder to note the numbers in the
minutes.
      (9)   At the end of public testimony and questions of staff, the Council
shall initiate deliberations by introducing a motion on the matter; continue
the hearing; or keep the record open for additional written testimony. During
deliberations, each member of the Council shall have the opportunity to comment
on or discuss testimony given during the public hearing.
      (10)   A copy of any written testimony or physical evidence, which a
party desires to have introduced into the record of the hearing, shall be
submitted to the City Recorder at the time of the hearing. Communications
concerning quasi-judicial matters received prior to the hearing are ex parte
contacts, and a Councilor receiving any such communication must disclose the
fact that such a communication has been received, and the content of the
communication.
      (11)   Documents submitted to the city as evidence or written testimony
during a public hearing are public records. If such a document contains the
name, address, including email address, and telephone number of the person,
then it will be included in the record of the proceeding. Because the name,
address, including email address, and telephone number are part of a public
record, this information will be generally disseminated to the public, and must
be disclosed if a public records request is submitted for the documents. A
person who believes such disclosure would present a danger to his or her
personal safety, and who wishes to exempt his or her address, including email
address, and telephone number from disclosure must submit a written request for
nondisclosure to the City Recorder pursuant to O.R.S. 192.455(1).
   (J)   Conduct of hearings on land use matters. See §§
30.070 through
30.072.
   (K)   Written communications to Council.
      (1)   Unsolid communications to the Mayor and/or Council concerning
matters on the agenda shall be forwarded to the Council in the agenda packet,
but shall not be individually itemized on the agenda.
      (2)   Unsolid communications to the Mayor and/or Council concerning
matters that are not on an agenda shall be forwarded to the Mayor and/or
Council but shall not be included in the agenda packet.
      (3)   The City Manager may, in his or her discretion, bring any matter
raised by an unsolid communication to the attention of the Council as an agenda
item, provided that such communication is accompanied by a staff report setting
forth the reason the matter should be considered by the Council, and making a
recommendation for Council action.
MEETING TIME, LOCATION AND FREQUENCY
§ 30.020 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at least once a month, in
each month of the year, in the Council Chamber of the city.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 521-2009, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 30.021 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the presiding officer, by request of three
members of the Council, or by the City Manager.
   (A)   Notice of the special meeting shall be given to each member of the
Council, the City Manager, and each local newspaper, and radio and television
station which has on file a written request for notice of special meetings.
   (B)   Notice of the special meeting shall be given to all members of the
Council and the City Manager via telephone and email.
   (C)   Special meetings shall be noticed in accordance with Oregon's public
meetings law, and, at a minimum, shall be noticed at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting taking place.
§ 30.022 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   Emergency meetings may be called by the presiding officer, by the request of
three members of council, or by the City Manager.
   (A)   Notice of the emergency meeting shall be given to each member of the
Council, the City Manager, and each local newspaper, and radio and television
station which has on file a written request for notice of special meetings.
   (B)   Notice of the emergency meeting shall be given to all members of
Council and the City Manager via telephone and email.
   (C)   Emergency meetings are those meetings called with less than 24 hours'
notice and the Council shall identify why the meeting could not be delayed 24
hours immediately after calling the meeting to order.
   (D)   The minutes for any emergency meeting shall specifically identify why
the meeting constituted an emergency and was necessary.
§ 30.023 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Executive sessions may be called by the presiding officer, by the request of
three members of Council, by the City Manager or by the City Attorney.
   (A)   Only members of the Council, the City Manager and persons specifically
invited by the City Manager or the Council shall be allowed to attend executive
sessions.
   (B)   Representatives of recognized news media may attend executive
sessions, other than those sessions during which the Council conducts
deliberations with persons designated to carry on labor negotiations, or where
the matter involves litigation and the news media is a party to the litigation.
§ 30.024 WORK SESSIONS.
   Work sessions are permitted to present information to the Council so that
the Council is prepared for regular or special meetings.
   (A)   All work sessions are subject to Oregon's public meetings law and must
be noticed accordingly.
   (B)   Work sessions are intended to allow for preliminary discussions, and
the Council is not permitted to take formal or final action on any matter at a
work session.
   (C)   Work sessions are to be scheduled by the City Manager.
   (D)   The City Manager is to invite any relevant staff to work sessions so
that the sessions are as productive as possible.
§ 30.025 HOLIDAYS.
   In the event a regular meeting falls on a holiday recognized by the city,
the regular meeting for that week shall be cancelled.
§ 30.026 COUNCIL RECESS.
   The Council shall be in recess, at a minimum, during the following dates
each calendar year:
   (A)   August 1 through August 31;
   (B)   The Monday before Thanksgiving and the Friday after Thanksgiving; and
   (C)   December 15 to January 1.
§ 30.027 LOCATION.
   Council meetings shall be held at City Hall.
   (A)   In the event City Hall is not available for a meeting, the Council
shall meet at a venue open to the public which is located within the
jurisdictional limits of the city.
   (B)   Training sessions may be held outside of the city's jurisdictional
limits, provided no deliberations toward a decision are made.
   (C)   Interjurisdictional meetings may be held outside of the city's
jurisdictional limits, but should be held as close as practical to the city,
and such meetings shall be located within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
other government entity.
   (D)   No Council meeting shall be held at any place where discrimination on
the basis of an individuals' race, religion, color, sex, national origin,
ethnicity, marital status, familial status, age, sexual orientation, source of
income or disability is practiced.
§ 30.028 NOTICE.
   The City Recorder shall provide notice of all meetings in accordance with
Oregon's public meeting law.
§ 30.029 ATTENDANCE.
   Members of the Council shall advise the City Manager if they will be unable
to attend any meetings. Under the charter, a Council position becomes vacant if
the member of Council is absent from the city for more than 30 days without
Council permission or absent from all meetings of the Council within a 60-day
period.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.050 ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances considered by and voted upon by the Council shall adhere to
the rules outlined herein.
   (A)   Numbering. The City Recorder shall number all ordinances with a
consecutive identification number during each calendar year, in the order of
their introduction. Each number shall be followed by the last two digits of the
year in which the ordinance was introduced.
   (B)   Sponsorship. Each ordinance shall note the name of the member(s) of
the Council introducing or sponsoring the ordinance.
   (C)   Preparation and introduction.
      (1)   All ordinances shall, before presentation to the Council, have been
approved by the City Attorney, or the City Attorney's designee.
      (2)   Ordinances shall be introduced by a member of the Council. Except
that, upon the request of the Council, an ordinance may be introduced by the
City Manager or the City Attorney, with a member of the Council moving further
action on such ordinance upon completion of the introduction.
      (3)   No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be
clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section thereof, shall be
amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the
ordinance or section amended or repealed.
   (D)   Calendar of ordinance.
      (1)   An ordinance is introduced for consideration by the Council for
presentation for first reading. After introduction, the Council may direct
that:
         (a)   A public hearing on the ordinance be held;
         (b)   Refer the ordinance to committee for review and recommendation;
         (c)   Refer the ordinance to the City Manager for further revision;
         (d)   Pass the ordinance to a second reading; or
         (e)   Reject the ordinance in whole or in part.
      (2)   All ordinances when introduced for first reading shall be
identified by title and number on a calendar of first reading and may be passed
to a second reading as a group without further reference.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, on second reading all
ordinances shall be placed by title and number on a calendar of second reading,
and may be passed as a group, provided that the vote for the passage of the
calendar is unanimous.
      (4)   Should any member of the Council object to any ordinance at time of
second reading, that ordinance shall be removed from the calendar of second
reading, and considered separately. Ordinances to be considered separately
shall be ready by title only.
      (5)   When the calendar of second reading or an ordinance which is to be
considered separately is placed before the Council for final passage, the City
Recorder shall call the roll and enter the ayes, nays and abstentions in the
record.
      (6)   All proposed amendments to an ordinance shall be in writing, and
may be made by interlineation upon the ordinance.
      (7)   No second reading of any ordinance shall occur at the meeting where
it is introduced, except by suspension of this section of the rules, and no
ordinance shall be passed at a single meeting, except by a unanimous vote for
passage by all members of Council present.
      (8)   An affirmative vote of at least three members of the Council shall
be necessary to pass an ordinance.
      (9)   When an ordinance is rejected by the Council, and is not
reconsidered as provided by these rules, neither the ordinance, nor any other
ordinance which contains substantially the same provisions, shall be considered
by the Council for a period of not less than six months, unless at least three
members of the Council petition for early consideration.
§ 30.051 RESOLUTION.
   All resolutions considered by and voted upon by the Council shall adhere to
the rules outlined herein.
   (A)   Numbering.
      (1)   The City Recorder shall number all resolutions with a consecutive
identification number during each calendar year, in the order of their
introduction.
      (2)   Each number shall be followed by the last two digits of the year in
which the resolution was introduced.
   (B)   Sponsorship. Each resolution shall note the name of the member(s) of
the Council introducing or sponsoring the resolution.
   (C)   Preparation and introduction.
      (1)   All resolutions shall, before presentation to the Council, have
been approved by the City Attorney, or the City Attorney's designee.
      (2)   Resolutions shall be introduced by a member of the Council. Except
that, upon the request of the Council, a resolution may be introduced by the
City Manager or the City Attorney, with a member of the Council moving further
action on such resolution upon completion of the introduction.
   (D)   Calendar of resolution.
      (1)   A resolution is introduced for consideration by the Council for
presentation for first reading. After introduction, the Council may direct
that:
         (a)   A public hearing on the resolution be held;
         (b)   Pass the resolution to a second reading; or
         (c)   Reject the resolution in whole or in part.
      (2)   All resolutions when introduced for first reading shall be
identified by title and number on a calendar of first reading and may be passed
to a second reading as a group without further reference.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, on second reading all
resolutions shall be placed by title and number on a calendar of second
reading, and may be passed as a group, provided that the vote for the passage
of the calendar is unanimous.
      (4)   (a)   Should any member of the Council object to any resolution at
time of second reading, that resolution shall be removed from the calendar of
second reading, and considered separately.
         (b)   Resolutions to be considered separately shall be ready by title
only.
      (5)   When the calendar of second reading or a resolution which is to be
considered separately is placed before the Council for final passage, the City
Recorder shall call the roll and enter the ayes, nays and abstentions in the
record.
      (6)   All proposed amendments to a resolution shall be in writing, and
may be made by interlineation upon the resolution.
      (7)   A second reading of a resolution is permitted to occur at the
meeting where it is introduced, and a resolution may be passed at a single
meeting by a unanimous vote for passage by all members of the Council present.
      (8)   An affirmative vote of a majority of the Council present shall be
necessary to pass a resolution.
      (9)   When a resolution is rejected by the Council, and is not
reconsidered as provided by these rules, neither the resolution, nor any other
resolution which contains substantially the same provisions, shall be
considered by the Council for a period of not less than three months, unless at
least three members of the Council petition for early consideration.
LAND USE HEARINGS
§ 30.070 GENERAL CONDUCT OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any party may speak in person, through an attorney, or elect to have a
representative from an officially recognized neighborhood association present
the party's case.
   (B)   A copy of any written testimony or physical evidence which a party
desires to have introduced into the record at the time of hearing shall be
submitted to the City Recorder at the time the party makes his or her
presentation. If the testimony or evidence is not submitted to the City
Recorder, it shall not be included in the record for the proceeding.
   (C)   No person may speak more than once without obtaining permission from
the presiding officer.
   (D)   Upon being recognized by the presiding officer, any member of the
Council, the City Manager, planning director or the City Attorney may question
any person who testifies.
   (E)   Testimony shall be directed towards the applicable standards and
criteria which apply to the proposal before the Council.
   (F)   The presiding officer may exclude or limit cumulative, repetitious, or
immaterial testimony. To expedite hearings, the presiding officer may call for
those in favor and those in opposition to rise, and the City Recorder shall
note the numbers of such persons for the record in the minutes.
§ 30.071 QUASI-JUDICIAL LAND USE MATTERS.
   (A)   Scope of review. All appeals and Council-initiated review in quasi-
judicial land use proceedings shall be new (de novo) and shall be held on the
record.
   (B)   Conflicts of interest.
      (1)   A member of the Council shall not participate in a discussion or
vote in a quasi-judicial land use proceeding if:
         (a)   The member has an actual conflict of interest as defined by the
Oregon Revised Statutes or the City Charter.
         (b)   The member was not present during the public hearing; provided,
however, the member may participate if they have reviewed the evidence,
including recordings of the hearing, and declared such fact for the record.
      (2)   Members of the Council shall reveal any ex parte contacts with
regard to the proceeding at the commencement of any quasi-judicial land use
proceeding. If such contact impairs the member's impartiality, the member shall
state this fact and abstain from participation in the matter.
   (C)   Burden of proof. The proponent has the burden of proof on all elements
of the proposal, and the proposal must be supported by proof that it conforms
to all applicable standards and criteria.
      (1)   The decision of the Council shall be based on the applicable
standards and criteria as set forth in the city's Municipal Code, the city's
Comprehensive Plan, and, if applicable, any other land use standards imposed by
state law or administrative rule.
      (2)   The proponent, any opponents, and/or city staff may submit to the
Council a set of written findings or statements of factual information which
are intended to demonstrate the proposal complies or fails to comply with any
or all applicable standards and criteria.
   (D)   Hearing procedures. The order of hearings in quasi-judicial land use
matters shall be:
      (1)   Land use hearing disclosure statement. The City Recorder shall read
the land use hearing disclose statement, which shall include:
         (a)   A list of the applicable criteria;
         (b)   A statement that testimony, arguments and evidence must be
directed toward the applicable criteria or other criteria in the plan or land
use regulation which the person believes to apply to the decision;
         (c)   A statement that failure to raise an issue accompanied by
statements or evidence sufficient to afford the council and the parties an
opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to the Land Use Board of
Appeals based on that issue; and
         (d)   If applicable, a statement that a failure to raise
constitutional issues relating to proposed conditions of approval precludes an
action for damages in circuit court.
      (2)   Call for ex parte contacts. The presiding officer shall inquire
whether any member of the Council has had ex parte contacts. Any member of the
Council announcing an ex parte contact shall state for the record the nature
and content of the contact.
      (3)   Call for abstentions. The presiding officer shall inquire whether
any member of the Council must abstain from participating in the hearing due to
a conflict of interest. Any member of the Council announcing a conflict of
interest shall state the nature of the conflict, and shall not participate in
the proceeding, unless the person's vote is necessary to meet a requirement of
a minimum number of votes necessary to take official action; provided, however,
that the member shall not participate in any discussion or debate on the issue
of which the conflict arises.
      (4)   Staff summary. Planning staff shall present a summary and
recommendation concerning the proposal.
      (5)   Presentation of the case.
         (a)   Proponent's case. Twenty minutes total.
         (b)   Persons in favor. Five minutes per person.
         (c)   Persons opposed. Five minutes per person.
         (d)   Other interested persons. Five minutes per person.
         (e)   Rebuttal. Ten minutes total. Rebuttal may be presented by the
proponent. The scope of rebuttal is limited to matters which were introduced
during the hearing.
      (6)   Close of hearing. No further information shall be received after
the close of the hearing, except for specific questions directed to staff. If
the response to any such questions requires the introduction of additional
factual evidence, all parties shall be afforded an opportunity for simultaneous
written rebuttal.
      (7)   Deliberations. Deliberations shall immediately follow the hearing.
The Council may delay deliberations to a subsequent time certain.
      (8)   Findings and order. The Council may approve or reject the proposal.
         (a)   The Council shall adopt findings to support its decision.
         (b)   The Council may incorporate findings proposed by the proponent,
the opponent or staff in its decision.
   (E)   Continuances. Only one continuance is available by right. However,
nothing in this section shall restrict the Council, in its discretion, from
granting additional continuances. Any continuance shall result in a
corresponding extension of the 120-day time limitations imposed by the Oregon
Revised Statutes.
§ 30.072 LEGISLATIVE LAND USE MATTERS.
   (A)   Hearings procedures. The order of procedures for hearings on
legislative land use matters shall be:
      (1)   Call for abstentions. Inquire whether any member of the Council
wishes to abstain from participation in the hearing. Any member announcing an
abstention shall identify the reason therefor and shall not participate in the
proceedings.
      (2)   Staff summary. Staff shall present a statement of the applicable
criteria, and a summary and recommendation concerning the proposal.
      (3)   Presentation of the case.
         (a)   Proponent's case. Twenty minutes total.
         (b)   Persons in favor. Five minutes per person.
         (c)   Persons opposed. Five minutes per person.
         (d)   Other interested persons. Five minutes per person.
      (4)   Close of hearing. No further information shall be received after
the close of the hearing, except for responses to specific questions directed
to staff.
      (5)   Deliberations. Deliberations shall immediately follow the hearing.
The Council may delay deliberations to a subsequent time certain.
      (6)   Reopening hearing. Prior to second reading of an ordinance relating
to a legislative land use matter, and upon majority vote of the Council, a
hearing may be reopened to receive additional testimony, evidence or argument.
The same notice requirements shall be met for the reopened hearing as were
required for the original hearing.
MOTIONS, DEBATE, PUBLIC COMMENT AND VOTING
§ 30.090 MOTIONS.
   All motions shall be distinctly worded.
   (A)   The following rules shall apply to motions:
      (1)   If a motion does not receive a second, it dies.
      (2)   The Council will discuss a motion only after the motion has been
moved and seconded. Nothing in this section prevents general discussion or
expression of opinions before a motion is made.
      (3)   Any motion shall be reduced to writing if requested by a member of
the Council.
      (4)   A motion to amend can be made to a motion that is on the floor and
has been seconded.
      (5)   No motion shall be received when a question is under debate except
for the following:
         (a)   To lay the matter on the table;
         (b)   To call for the previous question;
         (c)   To postpone;
         (d)   To refer; or
         (e)   To amend.
      (6)   A motion may be withdrawn by the mover at any time without the
consent of the Council.
      (7)   Amendments are voted on first, then the main motion if voted on as
amended.
      (8)   A member of the Council may have a motion which contains several
elements divided, but the mover shall have the right to designate which element
will be voted on first.
      (9)   A call for the question is intended to close the debate on the main
motion; does not require a second and is not debatable.
         (a)   A call for the question fails without a majority vote.
         (b)   Debate on the main subject resumes if the motion fails.
      (10)   A motion that receives a tie vote fails.
      (11)   The presiding officer shall repeat the motion prior to a vote.
      (12)   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended.
   (B)   Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider may only be made by a
member of the prevailing side. Any member may second the motion.
      (1)   No motion shall be made more than once.
      (2)   The motion shall be made before the final adjournment of the
meeting when the item goes out of possession of the Council.
§ 30.091 DEBATE.
   The following rules shall govern the debate of any item being discussed by
the Council:
   (A)   Every member desiring to speak shall address the presiding officer,
and, upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine him/herself to
the question under debate, at all times acting and speaking in a respectful
manner.
   (B)   A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when speaking
unless it is to be called to order, or as herein otherwise provided.
   (C)   The member of the Council moving the adoption of any ordinance or
resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
§ 30.092 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   The public shall be entitled to comment on all matters before the Council
that require a vote.
   (A)   Public comment shall occur after the matter up for vote has been
presented by city staff and before the Council takes any formal action on the
matter.
   (B)   Each member of the public is entitled to comment on the matter before
the Council for five minutes.
   (C)   Public comment is a time for comment, it is not a time for debate, nor
is it a time for members of the public to ask questions of and receives answers
from the Council or city staff.
   (D)   Each person desiring to give public comments shall provide the Council
with his or her name and address prior to giving comment. This information
shall be used to insure the minutes of the meeting properly reflect those
persons who provided public comment.
§ 30.093 VOTING.
   The following rules shall apply to voting on matters before the Council,
unless amended in the manner outlined in §§
30.070 through
30.072 of this chapter.
   (A)   Reports. A majority of a quorum shall be required to approve or accept
a report. However, no vote is required if the report is only for informational
purposes.
   (B)   Consent agenda. The unanimous vote of all members of the Council
present is required to approve the matters on a consent agenda.
   (C)   Resolutions. A majority of quorum shall be required to pass a
resolution.
   (D)   An ordinance involving a fee or fine. An ordinance involving a fee or
fine shall require a majority of the Council to pass.
   (E)   An ordinance not involving a fee. An ordinance which does not involve
a fee or a fine shall require a majority of a quorum to pass.
   (F)   Emergency ordinance. An emergency ordinance shall require the
unanimous vote of all members present.
   (G)   Budget. The budget shall require a majority of a quorum to pass.
   (H)   Franchise. A majority of a quorum shall be required to pass an
ordinance granting a franchise.
   (I)   Suspension of rules. A unanimous vote of all members of the Council
present shall be required to suspend or rescind a rule contained in these rules
of procedure, however, rules in this chapter which also appear in the city’s
Charter shall not be suspended or rescinded.
   (J)   Recorded. All votes shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (K)   Ties.
      (1)   Tie votes shall indicate a denial of the proposal.
      (2)   If the tie is a matter that has been appealed from a lower city
body or commission, a tie shall render the lower body's decision approved.
   (L)   Effective date.
      (1)   A resolution shall become effective upon adoption unless otherwise
stated in the resolution.
      (2)   The following shall take effect immediately upon its passage:
         (a)   Ordinances making appropriations and the annual tax levy;
         (b)   Ordinances relative to local improvements and assessments; and
         (c)   Emergency ordinances.
      (3)   All other ordinances shall take effect 30 days after passage unless
a later date is fixed on the ordinance, in which event it shall take effect at
the later date.
      (4)   The filing of a referendum petition shall suspend the effective
date of an ordinance.
MINUTES
§ 30.110 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All minutes shall be in written form, with an electronic copy of the
meeting maintained by the City Recorder in accordance with the appropriate
record retention schedule.
   (B)   The minutes shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members present;
      (3)   The motions, proposals, resolutions, orders, ordinances, and
measures proposed and their disposition;
      (4)   The results of all votes and the vote of each member by name;
      (5)   The substance of any discussion on any matter; and
      (6)   A reference to any document discussed at the meeting.
§ 30.111 APPROVAL.
   The Council shall approve all minutes of any meeting.
   (A)   All minutes shall be approved within 90 days of the meeting having
occurred.
   (B)   The draft minutes shall be submitted to the Council as part of the
Council’s packet prior to the meeting where they will be discussed.
   (C)   Any member of the Council may request an amendment or correction of
the minutes prior to a final vote being taken on the minutes.
APPOINTMENTS
§ 30.130 APPOINTMENTS OF CITY STAFF.
   The Council appoints and can remove those positions identified in the city's
Charter. All appointments require a majority vote of the entire Council.
   (A)   Reviews. Any person appointed by the Council shall be subject to an
annual review by the Council.
   (B)   Removals. All appointed persons may be removed by a majority vote of
the entire Council.
   (C)   Interference. If the Council appoints a municipal judge, the Council
may meet with the judge, but in no instance shall the Council be permitted to
interfere with the judge's exercise of judicial authority or discretion.
§ 30.131 APPOINTMENTS OF MEMBERS TO BOARD, COMMISSIONS AND/OR COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise mandated by state law, the Mayor shall appoint the
members of any board, commission or committee authorized by the Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise prohibited by the Council, the Mayor shall have the
authority to create and appoint subcommittees of committees authorized by the
Council.
   (C)   Removals. All appointed persons may be removed by the Mayor.
ETHICS, DECORUM, OUTSIDE STATEMENTS
§ 30.150 ETHICS.
   All members of the Council shall review and observe the requirements of
State Ethics Law. In addition to complying with State Ethics Law, all members
of the Council shall refrain from:
   (A)   Disclosing confidential information.
   (B)   Taking action which benefits special interest groups or persons at the
expense of the city as a whole.
   (C)   Expressing an opinion contrary to the official position of the Council
without so saying.
   (D)   Conducting themselves in a manner so as to bring discredit upon the
government of the city.
§ 30.151 DECORUM.
   (A)   The presiding officer shall preserve decorum during meetings and shall
decide all points of order, subject to appeal of the Council.
   (B)   Members of the Council shall preserve decorum during meetings, and
shall not, by conversation or action, delay or interrupt the proceedings or
refuse to obey the orders of the presiding officer or these rules.
   (C)   Members of the city staff and all other persons attending meetings
shall observe the Council's rules of proceedings and adhere to the same
standards of decorum as members of Council.
§ 30.152 STATEMENTS TO THE MEDIA AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Representing city. If a member of the Council, to include the Mayor,
appears as a representative of the city before another governmental agency, the
media or an organization to give a statement on an issue, the member may only
state the official position of the city, as approved by a majority of the
Council.
   (B)   Personal opinions. If a member of the Council, to include the Mayor,
appears in their personal capacity before another governmental agency, the
media or an organization to give a statement on an issue, the member must state
they are expressing their own opinion and not that of the city before giving
their statement.
INTERACTIONS WITH STAFF AND CITY ATTORNEY
§ 30.170 STAFF.
   All members of the Council shall respect the separation between the
Council's role and the City Manager's responsibility by:
   (A)   Not interfering with the day-to-day administration of city business,
which is the responsibility of the City Manager.
   (B)   Refraining from actions that would undermine the authority of the City
Manager or a department head.
   (C)   Limiting individual inquiries and requests for information from staff
to those questions that may be answered readily as part of staffs day-to-day
responsibilities. Questions of a more complex nature shall be directed to the
City Manager.
      (1)   Questions from individual members of the Council requiring
significant time or resources (two hours or more) shall normally require
approval of the Council.
      (2)   Members of the Council shall normally share any information
obtained from staff with the entire Council. This section is not intended to
apply to questions by members of the Council acting in their individual
capacities rather than as members of the Council, nor to questions regarding
conflict of interest or similar issues particular to a member of the Council.
§ 30.171 CITY ATTORNEY.
   Council members may make requests to the City Attorney for advice no more
than once a month, so long as the request does not require more than two hours
of the attorney's time. A Councilor may make additional requests within a month
or make a request that exceeds two hours with the concurrence of the majority
of the Council.
CENSURE
§ 30.190 CENSURE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Council may enforce these rules and ensure compliance with city
ordinances, charter and state laws applicable to governing bodies. If a member
of Council violates these rules, city ordinances, the City Charter or state
laws applicable to governing bodies, the Council may take action to protect the
integrity of the Council and discipline the member with a public reprimand (or
removal as provided for in the city charter).
   (B)   The Council may investigate the actions of any member of Council and
meet in executive session under O.R.S. 192.660(2)(b) to discuss any finding
that reasonable grounds exist that a violation of these rules, local ordinance,
the City Charter or state laws applicable to governing bodies has occurred.
Sufficient notice must be given to the affected member to afford them the
opportunity to request an open hearing under O.R.S. 192.660(2)(b).
AMENDMENTS AND REPEAL
§ 30.210 AMENDMENT.
   These rules of procedure are subject to amendment by the Council in
accordance with the rules noted herein.
   (A)   Any proposed amendment to these rules shall be noted on an agenda for
a regular meeting, wherein the same shall be discussed, and open for comment by
the public.
   (B)   All amendments to these rules requires a majority vote.
   (C)   Amended rules shall not go into effect until the meeting after the
rule was approved.
§ 30.211 REPEAL.
   These rules of procedure are subject to repeal and replacement by the
Council in accordance with the rules noted herein.
   (A)   Any proposed repeal of these rules shall be accompanied by a proposed
replacement.
   (B)   Any proposed repeal and replacement of these rules shall be noted on
an agenda for a regular meeting, wherein the same shall be discussed, and open
for comment by the public.
   (C)   Any repeal and replacement of these rules requires a majority vote.
   (D)   Any repeal and replacement of these rules shall not go into effect
until 30 days after the replacement rule was approved.
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
City Officials
   
31.01   City Manager
   
31.02   Superintendent of Public Works
   
31.03   Code Enforcement Officer
City Employees
   
31.15   Officers, employees
   
31.16   Personnel policies adopted
   
31.17   Compensation
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Manager, who shall be the
administrative officer of the city. The City Manager shall hold office for an
indefinite term and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council, and shall
be responsible to the City Council for the proper administration of the city.
The City Manager may be removed from office at any time with or without cause
by majority vote of the entire Council. The City Manager shall be chosen
without regard to political considerations and solely on the basis of ability,
as determined by the Council.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be required to give a fidelity bond in an
amount fixed by the City Council conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   The City Manager shall have general supervision of administrative
affairs of the city and the work of all city departments, and general
supervision of all nonelective officers and employees of the city, except the
offices of Municipal Judge and City Attorney. The Council may, by motion,
resolution, or ordinance, provide rules under which the City Manager shall
conduct his or her office and the affairs of the various departments of the
city.
   (D)   The duties of the City Manager shall be as follows:
      (1)   To recommend to the Council ordinances and policies designed to
maintain or improve the efficiency of city government;
      (2)   To perform any other duties as prescribed by City Charter or
ordinance, or as the Council may require;
      (3)   To submit to the Mayor and Council a list of interested citizens to
fill any position appointed by the Mayor or elected by the Council;
      (4)   To prepare the annual budget for consideration by the Council and
Budget Committee;
      (5)   To act as administrative head of all departments of the city
government, and oversee the operations of the departments, and keep Council
apprised as to the functioning of the departments;
      (6)   To act as manager with authority to recruit, hire, discipline, and
terminate the employees under the City Manager’s supervision following existing
or subsequently issued guidelines, policies, and handbooks, as adopted by the
Council by resolution or ordinance, to establish and revise duties and job
descriptions and to set salaries and grant merit increases and promotions
within the constraints of the approved budget. Authority to grant across-the-
board cost of living increases shall remain with the Budget Committee and the
Council;
      (7)   To prepare agendas;
      (8)   To act as business agent of the City Council in connection with
city business;
      (9)   To act, within the adopted budget by line item as approved by the
City Council, as purchasing agent for all departments of the city;
      (10)   To coordinate the enforcement of all city ordinances relating to
enforcement of city ordinances under the advice of the Council;
      (11)   To ensure that provisions of all franchises, agreements,
contracts, leases, permits, or other agreements, and privileges granted by, or
entered into, by the city are enforced and observed;
      (12)   To maintain general supervision over all city property and its use
by the public or city employees;
      (13)   To advise the Council as to the needs of the city and to prepare
and furnish all reports requested by the Council;
      (14)   Keep accurate personnel records/files;
      (15)   To perform and/or assist with general reception duties; and
      (16)   To perform any other duties as may be prescribed by the City
Council.
   (E)   The City Manager shall attend all Council meetings, and shall normally
participate in all discussions coming before the Council, but shall have no
vote.
   (F)   The Council may enter into a contract with the City Manager stating
terms and conditions of employment.
   (G)   The salary of the City Manager shall be determined by action of the
Council.
   (H)   The performance of the City Manager shall be evaluated by the City
Council annually or as recommended by the Council. The Mayor shall, on behalf
of the Council, coordinate the obtaining of written and oral information to
assist the Council in the evaluation.
   (I)   The City Manager may request that the Council appoint an ad hoc
Personnel Committee to assist with personnel issues. The function of the
Personnel Committee shall be an advisory one.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 94-459, passed 11-15-1994; Ord. 478, passed 1-31-
2000; Ord. 482, passed 5-22-2000; Ord. 540-2014, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 31.02 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a position with the city to be filled by a
person to be designated as the Superintendent of Public Works, to be
compensated as may be prescribed from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Public Works is hereby designated and appointed
as the Street Commissioner, and shall perform the duties of that office as set
forth in § 43 of the
City Charter.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall have the following duties in
addition to those provided in division (B) above.
      (1)   He or she shall be responsible for the maintenance and supervision
of the city shops, equipment, and tools, and shall, at all times, maintain a
detailed and accurate inventory of all the personal property.
      (2)   He or she shall report to the Committee on Parks and Recreation at
its request, and shall supervise and be responsible for the execution of
maintenance and improvements of the parks and cemetery as ordered by the
Committee or the City Council.
      (3)   He or she shall supervise the maintenance of the municipal water
distribution system and shall make any reports to the Water Committee as it
may, from time to time, direct. He or she shall supervise the installation of
new services, repairs, and replacement, and shall enforce ordinances with
respect to the operation of the water system. He or she shall turn off the
water supply to any user for nonpayment of charges in accordance with
applicable city ordinances, and he or she shall turn on the service to any such
customer when reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 351, passed 2-21-1972)
§ 31.03 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   For purposes of state law and enforcing city code violations, the city may
appoint and designate city officers as it determines necessary as an
“enforcement officer.” The City Enforcement Officers shall be authorized to
enforce violations of this code including the authority to issue infraction
citations, issue summons, and prosecute citations in municipal court.
(Prior Code, § 10.19) (Ord. 549-2017, passed 11-9-2017)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.15 OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES.
   Any and all officers and employees of the county who may periodically engage
in providing general law enforcement services to the city, pursuant to a
cooperative agreement entered into between the city and county on or about July
1, 1979, shall be considered to be employees of the city solely for the purpose
of giving the officers and employees official status in their acts when
performing municipal functions pursuant to the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 396, passed 5-5-1980)
§ 31.16 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The City Council shall prescribe rules and regulations relating to
matters of city employment and personnel practices. It shall be the object of
the rules and regulations to attract and retain persons to city employment who
are qualified and competent, and to provide for a reasonable degree of job
security and promotions based upon merit.
   (B)   Personnel rules shall be adopted and amended by resolution of the City
Council. The rules shall provide for a means to recruit, select, develop, and
maintain an effective and responsive work force, and shall include policies and
procedures for employee hiring, advancement, training, career development, job
classification, salary administration, retirement, fringe benefits, discipline,
discharge, and other related matters.
   (C)   All appointments and promotions shall be made in accordance with the
personnel rules so adopted, and without regard to sex, race, color, age,
religion, or political affiliation and shall be based upon merit and
qualifications.
   (D)   The Mayor shall be responsible for administering all provisions of the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 380, passed 4-4-1977)
§ 31.17 COMPENSATION.
   The City Council shall, from time to time, provide by resolution for the
amount of compensation of its officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 371, passed 12-1-1975)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.001   Established
   
32.002   Membership
   
32.003   Terms of office
   
32.004   Meetings
   
32.005   Purpose
   
32.006   Compensation of members
   
32.007   Rules and regulations
   
32.008   Nonexistence of a Planning Commission
Parks and Recreation Committee
   
32.020   Established
   
32.021   Membership
   
32.022   Terms of office; vacancy; removal
   
32.023   Meetings
   
32.024   Purpose
   
32.025   Compensation of members
   
32.026   Rules and regulations
Public Works Committee
   
32.040   Established
   
32.041   Membership
   
32.042   Terms of office; vacancy; removal
   
32.043   Meetings
   
32.044   Purpose
   
32.045   Compensation of members
   
32.046   Rules and regulations
Budget Committee
   
32.060   Established
   
32.061   Membership
   
32.062   Terms of office; vacancy; removal
   
32.063   Meetings
   
32.064   Purpose
   
32.065   Compensation of members
   
32.066   Rules and regulations
Historic Landmarks Commission
   
32.080   Established
   
32.081   Membership
   
32.082   Terms of office
   
32.083   Meetings
   
32.084   Purpose
   
32.085   Compensation of members
   
32.086   Rules and regulations
Building and Safety Committee
   
32.100   Established
   
32.101   Membership
   
32.102   Terms of office
   
32.103   Meetings
   
32.104   Purpose
   
32.105   Compensation of members
   
32.106   Rules and regulations
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHED.
   The Planning Commission is hereby established. The Commission shall be
composed of seven members appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the
Council. The Planning Commission members shall elect, at their first regular
meeting, a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary from their membership.
Thereafter, the Commission shall elect a Chairperson at its first meeting each
year, to serve for the calendar year and until the Chairperson’s successor has
been elected; provided, however, that no member shall serve more than two
consecutive terms as a Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.010)
§ 32.002 MEMBERSHIP.
   At least six members of the Planning Commission must reside in the city at
the time of their appointment, and continue to be a resident of the city at all
times during their term in office. One non-resident member may be appointed to
the Planning Commission if that person has resided within the city urban growth
boundary one year immediately preceding that person’s appointment, and
continues to reside within the city urban growth boundary at all times during
the term of that person’s term in office. No more than two voting members of
the Commission may engage principally in the buying, selling, or developing of
real estate for profit as individuals, or be members of any partnership, or
officers or employees of any corporation, that engages principally in the
buying, selling, or developing of real estate for profit. No more than two
members shall be engaged in the same kind of occupation, business, trade, or
profession.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.020)
§ 32.003 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Planning Commission members shall hold office for four years, except when
filling the unexpired portion of a vacancy in office. Any vacancies in the
Commission shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the consent of the
Council. A member of the Commission who is absent from two consecutive meetings
without the approval of the Commission is presumed to be in nonperformance of
duty, and the Council may remove the member from the Commission and declare the
position vacant.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.030)
§ 32.004 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Four members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. When a
quorum is present, the concurrence of a majority of the members present shall
be required to decide any matter. It shall meet at least twice per year at such
times and places as may be fixed by the Chairperson, or as directed by the City
Council.
   (B)   If necessary, members may attend a meeting of the Commission by
conference call in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.040)
§ 32.005 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission serves in an advisory capacity to the City
Council on land use policy planning matters, which guide the future development
of the city. The Planning Commission has final approval authority on certain
cases and recommends action to the City Council on others.
   (B)   Areas of focus include:
      (1)   Conducting a detailed review of all types of development projects
and individual land use requests, such as subdivision maps, specific plans,
conditional use permits, planned developments, and appeals of administrative
approvals, as well as others;
      (2)   Assisting the Council in the formulation of policies and ordinances
that implement the general plan, such as amendments to the zoning code, the
adoption of new code sections, changes to the existing zoning text and maps,
and the like;
      (3)   The City Planning Commission shall also have all the powers which
are now, or may hereafter be, given to it under the general laws of the state;
and
      (4)   All recommendations and suggestions made to the Council by the
Commission shall be in writing.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.050)
§ 32.006 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission members shall receive no compensation for
their services.
   (B)   The Planning Commission members shall have no authority to make any
expenditure on behalf of the city, or obligate the city for payment of any sums
of money.
   (C)   However, they may make recommendations to the City Council from time
to time regarding expenditures and/or obligations.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.060)
§ 32.007 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Commission may adopt rules and regulations to conduct its affairs, which
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, and the city code and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.070)
§ 32.008 NONEXISTENCE OF A PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In the event the City Council determines that the Planning Commission is, at
any time, and for any reason, including, but not limited to, lack of a quorum
to conduct business, unable to act to discharge its responsibilities under this
section and under the City Zoning and Development Ordinance, the City Council
may act in place and stead of the Planning Commission, and all such acts taken
by the City Council pursuant to such a determination shall be deemed, and shall
have the same force and effect, as actions taken by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.01.080) (Ord. 544-2017, passed 8-10-2017)
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMITTEE
§ 32.020 ESTABLISHED.
   The Parks and Recreation Committee is hereby established. The Committee
shall be composed of seven members appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of
the Council. The Parks and Recreation Committee members shall elect, at their
first regular meeting, a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary from
their membership. Thereafter, the Committee shall elect a Chairperson at its
first meeting each year to serve for the calendar year and until the
Chairperson’s successor has been elected; provided, however, that no member
shall serve more than two consecutive terms as a Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.010)
§ 32.021 MEMBERSHIP.
   At least six of the members of the Parks and Recreation Committee must
reside in the city at the time of their appointment and at all times during
their term in office. One non-resident member may be appointed if that person
has resided within the city school district one year immediately preceding that
person’s appointment and continues to reside within the city school district at
all times during the term of that person’s term in office.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.020)
§ 32.022 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCY; REMOVAL.
   Parks and Recreation Committee members shall hold office for four years,
except when filling the unexpired portion of a vacancy in office. Any vacancies
in the Committee shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the consent
of the Council. A member of the Committee who is absent from two consecutive
meetings without the approval of the Committee is presumed to be in
nonperformance of duty, and the Council may remove the member from the
Committee and declare the position vacant.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.030)
§ 32.023 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Four members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. When a quorum
is present, the concurrence of a majority of the members present shall be
required to decide any matter. It shall meet at least twice per year at such
times and places as may be fixed by the Chairperson, or as directed by the City
Council.
   (B)   If necessary, members may attend a meeting of the Committee by
conference call in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.040)
§ 32.024 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Committee shall be to advise
the City Council regarding matters in the parks and recreation service area,
including parks, cemeteries, athletic facilities, trails planning, acquisition,
construction and maintenance, grants acquisition, volunteer coordination,
improvements, and the following tasks:
      (1)   Review and make recommendations on parks and recreation projects;
      (2)   Advise on parks systems development charge rate analysis and
recommendations;
      (3)   Advise on city parks rental rates and use procedures;
      (4)   Advise on city budget for operation and capital improvements;
      (5)   Troubleshoot capital and maintenance projects; and
      (6)   Park rules and policy recommendations.
   (B)   In addition, the Committee may advise the Council on any matter upon
which the Council requests guidance.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.050)
§ 32.025 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Committee members shall receive no
compensation for their services.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Members shall have no authority to make any
expenditure on behalf of the city, or obligate the city for payment of any sums
of money.
   (C)   However, they may make recommendations to the City Council from time
to time regarding expenditures and/or obligations.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.060)
§ 32.026 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Committee may adopt rules and regulations to conduct its affairs, which
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, and the city code and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.02.070)
PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
§ 32.040 ESTABLISHED.
   The Public Works Committee is hereby established. The Committee shall be
composed of seven members appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the
Council. The Public Works Committee members shall elect, at their first regular
meeting, a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary from their membership.
Thereafter, the Committee shall elect a Chairperson at its first meeting each
year to serve for the calendar year and until the Chairperson’s successor has
been elected; provided, however, that no member shall serve more than two
consecutive terms as a Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.010)
§ 32.041 MEMBERSHIP.
   Members of the Public Works Committee must reside in the city at the time of
their appointment and at all times during their term in office.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.020)
§ 32.042 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCY; REMOVAL.
   Public Works Committee members shall hold office for four years, except when
filling the unexpired portion of a vacancy in office. Any vacancies in the
Committee shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the consent of the
Council. A member of the Committee who is absent from two consecutive meetings
without the approval of the Committee is presumed to be in nonperformance of
duty, and the Council may remove the member from the Committee and declare the
position vacant.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.030)
§ 32.043 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Four members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. When a quorum
is present, the concurrence of a majority of the members present shall be
required to decide any matter. It shall meet at least twice per year, at such
times and places as may be fixed by the Chairperson, or as directed by the City
Council.
   (B)   If necessary, members may attend a meeting of the Committee by
conference call in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.040)
§ 32.044 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Public Works Committee shall be to advise the City
Council regarding matters in the water, sewer, streets, transportation,
bridges, trails planning, acquisition, construction and maintenance, grants
acquisition, volunteer coordination, improvements, and the following tasks:
      (1)   Review and make recommendations on public works projects;
      (2)   Advise on utility or street systems development charge rate
analysis and recommendations;
      (3)   Advise on city utility use procedures;
      (4)   Advise on city budget for operation and capital improvements;
      (5)   Troubleshoot capital and maintenance projects; and
      (6)   Utility rules and policy recommendations.
   (B)   In addition, the Committee may advise the Council on any matter upon
which the Council requests guidance.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.050)
§ 32.045 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Public Works Committee members shall receive no compensation for
their services.
   (B)   The Public Works Committee members shall have no authority to make any
expenditure on behalf of the city, or obligate the city for payment of any sums
of money.
   (C)   However, they may make recommendations to the City Council from time
to time regarding expenditures and/or obligations.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.060)
§ 32.046 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The committee may adopt rules and regulations to conduct its affairs, which
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, and city of the city code and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.070)
BUDGET COMMITTEE
§ 32.060 ESTABLISHED.
   The Budget Committee is hereby established. The Committee shall be composed
of the City Council and seven members appointed by the Mayor, with the consent
of the Council. The Budget Committee members shall elect, at their first
regular meeting, a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary from their
membership. Thereafter, the Committee shall elect a Chairperson at its first
meeting each year, to serve for the calendar year and until the Chairperson’s
successor has been elected; provided, however, that no member shall serve more
than two consecutive terms as a Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 32.04.010)
§ 32.061 MEMBERSHIP.
   In order to qualify for an appointment or reappointment to the Budget
Committee, a person must reside in the city and continue to be a resident of
the city at all times during the term of that person’s office.
(Prior Code, § 32.04.020)
§ 32.062 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCY; REMOVAL.
   Budget Committee members shall hold office for three years, except when
filling the unexpired portion of a vacancy in office. The terms of Committee
members shall be staggered so that, as near as practicable, one-third of the
terms of appointed members ends each year. Any vacancies in the Committee shall
be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the consent of the Council. A
member of the Committee who is absent from two consecutive meetings without the
approval of the Committee is presumed to be in nonperformance of duty, and the
Council may remove the member from the Committee and declare the position
vacant.
(Ord. 559-2020, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 32.063 MEETINGS.
   Eight members of the Budget Committee meeting cannot be held unless a quorum
is present. A majority of the Budget Committee membership shall constitute a
quorum. Any action by the Budget Committee requires an affirmative vote of a
majority of the total membership of the Committee. When a quorum is present,
the concurrence of a majority of the members present shall be required to
decide any matter. The Budget Committee shall meet at least one time twice per
year at such times and places as may be fixed by the Chairperson, or as
directed by the City Council. If necessary, members may attend a meeting of the
Committee by conference call in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 559-2020, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 32.064 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Budget Committee shall be to advise the City
Council regarding the city budget and perform the following tasks:
      (1)   Review and make recommendations the city budget;
      (2)   Advise on utility budget analysis and recommendations;
      (3)   Advise on city budget for operation and capital improvements; and
      (4)   Fulfill the responsibilities of a municipal Budget Committee under
state law.
   (B)   In addition, the Committee may advise the Council on any matter upon
which the Council requests guidance.
(Prior Code, § 32.04.050)
§ 32.065 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Budget Committee members shall receive no compensation for their
services.
   (B)   The Budget Committee members shall have no authority to make any
expenditure on behalf of the city, or obligate the city for payment of any sums
of money.
   (C)   However, they may make recommendations to the City Council from time
to time regarding expenditures and/or obligations.
(Prior Code, § 32.04.060)
§ 32.066 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Committee may adopt rules and regulations to conduct its affairs, which
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, and the city code and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.04.070)
HISTORIC LANDMARKS COMMISSION
§ 32.080 ESTABLISHED.
   The Historic Landmarks Commission is hereby established. The Commission
shall be composed of seven members appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of
the Council. The Historic Landmarks Commission members shall elect, at their
first regular meeting, a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary from
their membership. Thereafter, the Commission shall elect a Chairperson at its
first meeting each year, to serve for the calendar year and until the
Chairperson’s successor has been elected; provided, however, that no member
shall serve more than two consecutive terms as a Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.010)
§ 32.081 MEMBERSHIP.
   At least four of the members of the Historic Landmark Commission must reside
in the city at the time of their appointment and at all times during their term
in office. Three non-resident members may be appointed and approved when the
Mayor and City Council determine that such individuals have special
qualifications and expertise in the subject matter of the Commission, and have
expressed interest in being appointed and serving, and advancing, the interests
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.020) (Ord. 543-2017, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 32.082 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Historic Landmark Commission members shall hold office for four years,
except when filling the unexpired portion of a vacancy in office. Any vacancies
in the Commission shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the consent
of the Council. A member of the Commission who is absent from two consecutive
meetings without the approval of the Commission is presumed to be in
nonperformance of duty, and the Council may remove the member from the
Commission and declare the position vacant.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.030)
§ 32.083 MEETINGS.
   Four members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. When a quorum is
present, the concurrence of a majority of the members present shall be required
to decide any matter. It shall meet at least twice per year at such times and
places as may be fixed by the Chairperson, or as directed by the City Council.
If necessary, members may attend a meeting of the Committee by conference call
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.040)
§ 32.084 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Historic Landmark Commission shall be to advise the
City Council regarding matters in the historic buildings, landmarks, historic
preservation planning, historic site acquisition, construction and maintenance,
grants acquisition, volunteer coordination, improvements, and the following
tasks:
      (1)   Review and make recommendations on Historic Landmark Commission
projects;
      (2)   Advise on historic preservation efforts and recommendations;
      (3)   Advise on city historic preservation and promotion activities;
      (4)   Advise on capital improvements to facilitate historic preservation;
      (5)   Troubleshoot historic preservation issues for city improvement
projects; and
      (6)   Advise on historic preservation rule and policy recommendations.
   (B)   In addition, the Commission may advise the Council on any matter upon
which the Council requests guidance.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.050)
§ 32.085 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission members shall receive no
compensation for their services.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission members shall have no authority
to make any expenditure on behalf of the city, or obligate the city for payment
of any sums of money.
   (C)   However, they may make recommendations to the City Council from time
to time regarding expenditures and/or obligations.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.060)
§ 32.086 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Commission may adopt rules and regulations to conduct its affairs, which
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, and the city of city code and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.05.070)
BUILDING AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
§ 32.100 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Building and Safety Committee is composed of all available
employees, include at least one employer representative authorized to ensure
correction of safety and health issues, and be held on company time and
attendees paid at their regular rate of pay.
   (B)   If the city has ten or fewer employees, it may hold safety meetings
with available staff in lieu of having a Safety Committee.
(Prior Code, § 32.06.010)
§ 32.101 MEMBERSHIP.
   In order to qualify for an appointment or reappointment to the Safety
Committee the person must be a member of management, or a staff representative
that has an interest in the general promotion of safety and health.
(Prior Code, § 32.06.020)
§ 32.102 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Building and safety members shall hold office for two years, except when
filling the unexpired portion of a vacancy in office.
(Prior Code, § 32.06.030)
§ 32.103 MEETINGS.
   Meetings must be held at least monthly, and/or at such times and places as
may be fixed by the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 32.06.040)
§ 32.104 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of the Building and Safety Committee shall be to
advise the City Council regarding matters responsible for preventing accidents
and injuries.
      (2)   Our management provides direction and full support of all safety
procedures, job training, and hazard elimination practices and the following
tasks:
         (a)   Review and make recommendations on safety issues;
         (b)   Advise repairs, safety hazards, and injury prevention practices;
         (c)   Advise on city utility safety procedures; and
         (d)   Provide advice on safety and risk management policy
recommendations.
   (B)   In addition, the Committee may advise the Council on any matter upon
which the Council requests guidance.
(Prior Code, § 32.06.050)
§ 32.105 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   The Building and Safety Committee members shall receive no additional
compensation for their services outside of the terms of their employment
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 32.06.060)
§ 32.106 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Committee may adopt rules and regulations to conduct its affairs, which
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, and the city code and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.03.070) (Ord. 523-2010, passed 3-9-2010; Ord. 526-2011,
passed 2-8-2011; Ord. 538-2014, passed 7-10-2014)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Local vehicle tax
Marijuana Tax
   
33.15   Purpose
   
33.16   Definitions
   
33.17   Tax imposed
   
33.18   Amount and payment; deductions
   
33.19   Seller responsible for payment of tax
   
33.20   Interest
   
33.21   Failure to report, remit tax; determination of tax
   
33.22   Appeal
   
33.23   Refunds
   
33.24   Actions to collect
   
33.25   Violations
   
33.26   Confidentiality
   
33.27   Audit of books, records, persons
   
33.28   Forms, regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 LOCAL VEHICLE TAX.
   (A)   Local option vehicle license fee adopted. The city hereby exercises
its option to levy an annual tax of $5 on each registered vehicle, as provided
in Ordinance 341.
   (B)   Request to county. The Board of County Commissioners is requested,
under the provisions of Ordinance 341, to forthwith levy the tax provided by
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 341, passed 7-12-1971)
MARIJUANA TAX
§ 33.15 PURPOSE.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, every person who sells marijuana,
medical marijuana, or marijuana-infused products in the city is exercising a
taxable privilege. The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a tax upon the
retail sale of marijuana, medical marijuana, and marijuana-infused products.
(Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 33.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Recorder/Administrator for the city, or his or her
designee.
   GROSS SALES. The total amount received in money, credits, property, or other
consideration from sales of marijuana, medical marijuana, and marijuana-infused
products that is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant of the Cannabis family Moraceae, whether
growing or not; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its RESIN, as may be defined by Oregon Revised Statutes as they currently
exist, or may from time to time be amended. It does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination.
   PERSON. Natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or any
group or combination acting as a unit, including the United States of America,
the state, and any political subdivision thereof, or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer, or employee of any of them.
   PURCHASE or SALE. The acquisition or furnishing for consideration by any
person of marijuana or marijuana-infused product within the city.
   REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARDHOLDER. A person who has been diagnosed by an
attending physician with a debilitating medical condition and for whom the use
of medical marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person’s
debilitating medical condition, and who has been issued a registry
identification card by the State Health Authority.
   RETAIL SALE. The transfer of goods or services in exchange for any valuable
consideration.
   SELLER. Any person who is required to be licensed or has been licensed by
the state to provide marijuana or marijuana-infused products to purchasers for
money, credit, property, or other consideration.
   STATE MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROGRAM. The office within the State Health
Authority that administers the provisions of O.R.S. 475C.770 through 475C.919,
the State Medical Marijuana Act, and all policies and procedures pertaining
thereto.
   TAX. Either the tax payable by the seller or the aggregate amount of taxes
due from a seller during the period for which the seller is required to report
collections under this subchapter.
   TAXPAYER. Any person obligated to account to the Administrator of Finance
for taxes collected or to be collected, or from whom a tax is due, under the
terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 33.17 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is hereby levied and shall be paid by every seller exercising
the taxable privilege of selling MARIJUANA and MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS, as
defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Administrator is authorized to exercise all supervisory and
administrative powers with regard to the enforcement, collection, and
administration of the marijuana tax.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 33.18 AMOUNT AND PAYMENT; DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any fees or taxes otherwise provided for by law, every
seller engaged in the sale of marijuana and marijuana-infused products shall
pay a tax, with the tax rates established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The following deductions shall be allowed against sales received by
the seller providing marijuana or marijuana-infused products:
      (1)   Refunds of sales actually returned to any purchaser; and
      (2)   Any adjustments in sales which amount to a refund to a purchaser,
providing such adjustment pertains to the actual sale of marijuana or
marijuana-infused products, and does not include any adjustments for other
services furnished by a seller.
(Prior Code, § 34.12) (Ord. 541-2015, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 33.19 SELLER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every seller shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the end of each calendar quarter (in the months of April, July, October, and
January) make a return to the Administrator, on forms provided by the city,
specifying the total sales subject to this subchapter and the amount of tax
collected under this subchapter. The seller may request, or the city may
establish, shorter reporting periods for any seller if the seller or city deems
it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax, and the city may require
further information in the return relevant to payment of the tax. A return
shall not be considered filed until it is actually received by the
Administrator.
   (B)   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
shall be remitted to the city.
   (C)   Payments shall be applied in the order of the oldest liability first,
with the payment credited first toward any accrued penalty, then to interest,
then to the underlying tax until the payment is exhausted. Crediting of a
payment toward a specific reporting period will be first applied against any
accrued penalty, then to interest, then to the underlying tax. If the
Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, determines that an alternative
order of payment application would be in the best interest of the city in a
particular tax or factual situation, the Administrator may order such a change.
The Administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any seller if the
Administrator deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax. The
Administrator also may require additional information in the return relevant to
payment of the liability. When a shorter return period is required, penalties
and interest shall be computed according to the shorter return period. Returns
and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All
taxes collected by sellers pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for
the account of the city until payment is made to the city. A separate trust
bank account is not required in order to comply with this provision.
   (D)   Every seller required to remit the tax imposed in this subchapter
shall be entitled to retain 5% of all taxes due to defray the costs of
bookkeeping and remittance.
   (E)   Every seller must keep and preserve, in an accounting format
established by the Administrator, records of all sales made by the dispensary
and such other books or accounts as may be required by the Administrator for a
period of three years, or until all taxes associated with the sales have been
paid, whichever is longer. The city shall have the right to inspect all such
records at all reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 34.14)
§ 33.20 INTEREST.
   (A)   Any seller who fails to remit any portion of any tax imposed by this
subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of 10% of the amount of
the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   If the city determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under
this subchapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalty stated in division (A) above.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties imposed, any seller who fails to remit
any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per
month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   (D)   Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section, shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.
   (E)   All sums collected pursuant to the penalty provisions in this section
shall be distributed to the city’s General Fund, and may be used to offset the
costs of auditing and enforcement of this tax.
(Prior Code, § 34.16)
§ 33.21 FAILURE TO REPORT, REMIT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX.
   If any seller should fail to make, within the time provided in this
subchapter, any report of the tax required by this subchapter, the
Administrator shall proceed in such manner as deemed best to obtain facts and
information on which to base the estimate of tax due. As soon as the
Administrator shall procure such facts and information as is able to be
obtained, upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this
subchapter and payable by any seller, the Administrator shall proceed to
determine and assess against such seller the tax, interest, and penalties
provided for by this subchapter. In case such determination is made, the
Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by having it served
personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the seller so assessed at the last known place of address. Such
seller may make an appeal of such determination as provided in §
33.22. If no appeal is filed, the Administrator’s determination is final and
the amount thereby is immediately due and payable.
(Prior Code, § 34.18)
§ 33.22 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any seller aggrieved by any decision of the Administrator with respect
to the amount of such tax, interest, and penalties, if any, may appeal such
decision to the City Manager by filing written notice of appeal with the City
Manager. Any appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the serving or mailing of
the determination of tax due. The City Manager shall hear and consider any
records and evidence presented bearing upon the Administrator’s determination
of amount due, and make findings affirming, reversing, or modifying the
determination. The findings of the City Manager shall be final and conclusive,
subject to division (B) below.
   (B)   A person aggrieved by a decision of the City Manager may appeal to the
City Council by filing written notice of appeal with the City Recorder within
20 days of personal service, or mailing, of notice of the City Manager’s
decision. The City Council shall give the appellant not less than 20 days
advance written notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 34.20)
§ 33.23 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once, or has been erroneously collected or received by the
city under this subchapter, it may be refunded as provided in division (B)
below, provided a claim in writing, stating under penalty of perjury the
specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the
Administrator within one year of the date of payment. The claim shall be on
forms furnished by the city.
   (B)   The Administrator shall have 20 days from the date of receipt of a
claim to review the claim and make a determination in writing as to the
validity of the claim. The Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing
of the Administrator’s determination. Such notice shall be mailed to the
address provided by the claimant on the claim form. In the event a claim is
determined by the Administrator to be a valid claim, in a manner prescribed by
the Administrator, a seller may claim a refund, or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or
erroneously collected or received. The seller shall notify the Administrator of
the claimant’s choice no later than 15 days following the date Administrator
mailed the determination. In the event the claimant has not notified, the
Administrator of the claimant’s choice within the 15 day period and the seller
is still in business, a credit will be granted against the tax liability for
the next reporting period. If the seller is no longer in business, a refund
check will be mailed to the claimant at the address provided in the claim form.
   (C)   Any credit for erroneous overpayment of tax made by a seller taken on
a subsequent return, or any claim for refund of tax erroneously overpaid filed
by a seller must be so taken or filed within three years after the date on
which the overpayment was made to the city.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes the right by written records showing entitlement to
such refund, and the Administrator acknowledged the validity of the claim.
(Prior Code, § 34.22)
§ 33.24 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by any seller under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the seller to the city. Any such tax
collected by a seller which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owed by the seller to the city. Any person owing money to the city under
the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the city for the recovery of such amount. In lieu of filing an action
for the recovery, the city, when taxes due are more than 30 days delinquent,
can submit any outstanding tax to a collection agency. So long as the city has
complied with the provisions set forth in O.R.S. 697.105, in the event the city
turns over a delinquent tax account to a collection agency, it may add to the
amount owing an amount equal to the collection agency fees, not to exceed the
greater of $50 or 50% of the outstanding tax, penalties, and interest owing.
(Prior Code, § 34.24)
§ 33.25 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of this subchapter shall constitute a civil infraction. It
is a violation of this subchapter for any seller or other person to:
      (1)   Fail or refuse to comply as required herein;
      (2)   Fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made;
      (3)   Fail or refuse to permit inspection of records;
      (4)   Fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data
required by the city;
      (5)   Render a false or fraudulent return or claim; or
      (6)   Fail, refuse, or neglect to remit the tax to the city by the due
date.
   (B)   Filing a false or fraudulent return shall be considered a Class B
misdemeanor.
   (C)   The remedies provided by this section are not exclusive and shall not
prevent the city from exercising any other remedy available under the law, nor
shall the provisions of this subchapter prohibit or restrict the city or other
appropriate prosecutor from pursuing criminal charges under state law or city
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 34.26)
§ 33.26 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise required by law, it shall be unlawful for the
city, any officer, employee, or agent to divulge, release, or make known in any
manner any financial information submitted or disclosed to the city under the
terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit:
      (1)   The disclosure of the names and addresses of any person who is
operating a licensed establishment from which marijuana or marijuana-infused
products are sold or provided;
      (2)   The disclosure of general statistics in a form which would not
reveal an individual seller’s financial information;
      (3)   Presentation of evidence to the court or other tribunal having
jurisdiction in the prosecution of any criminal or civil claim by the city, or
an appeal from the city for the amount due the city under this subchapter;
      (4)   The disclosure of information when such disclosure of conditionally
exempt information is ordered under public records law procedures; or
      (5)   The disclosure of records related to a business’ failure to report
and remit the tax when the report or tax is in arrears for over six months, or
the tax exceeds $5,000.
   (C)   The City Council expressly finds and determines that the public
interest in disclosure of such records clearly outweighs the interest in
confidentiality under O.R.S. 192.345(5).
(Prior Code, § 34.28)
§ 33.27 AUDIT OF BOOKS, RECORDS, PERSONS.
   (A)   The city, for the purpose of determining the correctness of any tax
return, or for the purpose of an estimate of taxes due, may examine, or may
cause to be examined by an agent or representative designated by the city for
that purpose, any books, papers, records, or memoranda, including copies of the
seller’s state and federal income tax return, bearing upon the matter of the
seller’s tax return. All books, invoices, accounts, and other records shall be
made available within the city limits and be open at any time during regular
business hours for examination by the Administrator or an authorized agent of
the Administrator.
   (B)   If the examinations or investigations disclose that any reports of the
sellers’ filed with the Administrator pursuant to the requirements herein have
shown incorrectly the amount of tax accruing, the Administrator may make such
changes in subsequent reports and payments, or make such refunds, as may be
necessary, to correct the errors disclosed by its examinations or
investigations.
   (C)   (1)   The seller shall reimburse the city for reasonable costs of the
examination or investigation if the action disclosed that the seller paid 95%
or less of the tax owing for the period of the examination or investigation.
      (2)   In the event that such examination or investigation results in an
assessment by, and an additional payment due to, the city, such additional
payment shall be subject to interest at the rate of 1% per month, or the
portion thereof, from the date the original tax payment was due.
   (D)   If any taxpayer refuses to voluntarily furnish any of the foregoing
information when requested, the city may immediately seek a subpoena from the
City Municipal Court to require that the taxpayer or a representative of the
taxpayer attend a hearing or produce any such books, accounts, and records for
examination.
   (E)   Every seller shall keep a record in such form as may be prescribed by
the city of all sales of marijuana and marijuana-infused products. The records
shall, at all times during the business hours of the day, be subject to
inspection by the city or authorized officers, or agents of the Administrator.
   (F)   Every seller shall maintain and keep, for a period of three years, or
until all taxes associated with the sales have been paid, whichever is longer,
all records of marijuana and marijuana-infused products sold.
(Prior Code, § 34.30)
§ 33.28 FORMS, REGULATIONS.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate
rules and regulations to aid in the making of returns, the ascertainment,
assessment, and collection of said marijuana tax and in particular, and without
limiting the general language of this subchapter, to provide for:
   (A)   A form of report on sales and purchases to be supplied to all vendors;
and
   (B)   The records which sellers providing marijuana and marijuana-infused
products are to keep concerning the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.32) (Ord. 541-2014, passed 6-11-2014; Ord. 539-2014, passed
10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Nominating elected officials
   
34.02   Choosing of jurors
§ 34.01 NOMINATING ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Manner of nominating elective officers. The nomination of candidates
for all elective offices of the city shall be by petition. The petition shall
be signed by not less than ten legal voters of the city. It shall be the
responsibility of each candidate to have petition signatures verified by the
County Clerk prior to submission to the City Elections Officer, who is the City
Recorder/Administrator. There shall be no fee to file a verified petition and
signatures with the City Elections Officer.
   (B)   Forms and state law. The forms to be used for the petition and
signatures shall be those published by the Secretary of State for city
elections. All other requirements of state law regarding city elections, not
inconsistent with division (A) above, shall apply to city elections.
   (C)   City deadlines. The City Elections Officer shall determine and post a
deadline for receipt of verified petitions and signatures in order that the
City Elections Officer can, in turn, verify the list of nominated candidates to
the County Clerk before the statewide filing deadline. The city deadline shall
be not less than one business day, nor more than three business days, prior to
the statewide deadline, and shall be established prior to the first filing date
for that election.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 486, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 34.02 CHOOSING OF JURORS.
   (A)   In all prosecutions for any crime defined and made punishable by the
City Charter or ordinance, the defendant shall have the right of trial by jury
of six in number. Juries shall be selected from the latest tax roll and
registration books used at the last city election in the same manner in which
juries are selected for circuit courts. Summons for jury service shall be made
by processes approved by the court. The qualifications, rights, and duties of
jurors shall conform with O.R.S. 10.010 through 10.125. The verdict of the jury
shall be unanimous.
   (B)   The payment of jury costs by a defendant, as required by § 37 of the
City Charter, shall not apply to a defendant who has been found to be indigent
by the court. The deposit required by the Municipal Court to ensure the right
of trial by jury, under the City Charter, shall not be greater than that
provided by O.R.S. 10.061 in courts other than circuit courts for payment for
each juror sworn, multiplied by the number of jurors constituting a jury. Where
the defendant is found not guilty, the deposit shall be returned to the
defendant.
   (C)   In order to act as a juror in the Municipal Court, a person must have
the qualifications prescribed in O.R.S. Chapter 10 and, in addition thereto,
must be an inhabitant and a registered voter within the city at the time when
he or she is summoned.
   (D)   On the first Monday in January in each year, the Municipal Judge,
together with the Mayor and the Recorder/Administrator, shall meet and make a
list containing the names of not less than 50, nor more than 150, persons who
are the most competent of the permanent citizens of the city by selecting names
by lot from the voters registration list used at the last preceding city
election. The list, so selected, shall be known as a preliminary jury list. The
Municipal Judge, Mayor, and Recorder/Administrator shall then delete from the
preliminary jury list the names of those persons known not to be qualified by
law to serve as jurors, and the remaining names shall constitute the jury list.
The names of those persons deleted from the preliminary jury list shall be
placed on a separate list known as rejected prospective jurors, and opposite
each name, the reason for removing the name shall be stated. The jury list
shall contain the first name and last name, and the place of residence and
occupation, of each person named therein and shall be certified by the City
Recorder/Administrator and placed on file in his or her office within ten days
from the time it is prepared. If, for any reason, the making of a city jury
list is omitted and neglected on the first Monday in January of any year, it
may be done on the first Monday of any month following to serve until the close
of the year.
   (E)   The Recorder/Administrator shall keep in his or her office a
sufficient box, carefully secured, which is known as the jury box. After he or
she has filed the jury list in his or her office, the Recorder/Administrator
shall destroy all ballots remaining in the jury box and shall prepare and
deposit in the box separate ballots containing the name, place of residence,
and occupation of each person embraced in the list, and folded as nearly alike
as practicable so that the name cannot be seen.
   (F)   When a jury is demanded in the Municipal Court, and the fee therefor
is paid as hereinabove set forth, the Municipal Judge must draw from the jury
box, in the presence of the parties, at a time and place to be set by the
court, which shall be at least three days prior to the trial date, 12 ballots,
or any greater number if necessary, until the names of 12 persons who are
deemed able to attend at the time and place required, are obtained. The
Municipal Judge must make and sign a list of the 12 names thus drawn. On motion
of the defendant or his or her attorney, or on motion of the City Attorney, or
the court on its own motion, one of which may direct that four additional names
be drawn as alternate jurors.
   (G)   If it appears to the Municipal Judge that a person whose name is drawn
is dead or resides outside the city, the ballot must be destroyed. If it
appears to the Municipal Judge, or he or she has good reason to believe, that a
person whose name is drawn is temporarily absent from the city or is in ill
health, or so engaged as to be unable to attend at the time and place required
without great inconvenience, the ballot must be laid aside, without the name
thereon being entered on the list drawn, and returned to the jury box when the
drawing is completed. A person whose name is drawn is deemed able to attend
within the meaning of this division (G) and division (F) above, and his or her
name is deemed to be entered on the list drawn, except as provided in this
division (G).
   (H)   When the aforesaid drawing of 12 names is completed, the city and the
defendant, by their representatives, must select a jury by each striking from
the list three names alternately commencing with the defendant. The remaining
six must be summoned as jurors in the cause. When four names are drawn from the
jury box as alternates, each party shall strike one of the names. No peremptory
challenges shall be allowed other than as provided herein. No alternate juror
shall be summoned to serve at the trial of the action, except when the six
principals are not available.
   (I)   The names of the six jurors selected, as provided in division (H)
above, must be inserted in the order to summon a jury, and thereafter the
Municipal Judge shall transmit the order to the Chief of Police, who shall
summon the six persons so drawn and listed to serve as jurors in the pending
cause. The order shall require the jurors to appear before the Municipal Judge
forthwith, or at some future time to which the trial of the cause may be
postponed. The Chief of Police, or any other police officer of the city, must
serve the order by giving notice to each person selected of the time and place
he or she is required to appear and for what purpose, and return the same
according to the direction therein, with the names of the persons summoned,
verified by his or her own certificate.
   (J)   The six persons drawn and summoned as herein above provided shall
constitute the jury for the trial of the cause then pending before the
Municipal Court. Neither party shall be entitled to a peremptory challenge as
to any of the six jurors, but if any of the six jurors are found to be
disqualified by challenge for cause, their places on the jury shall be filled
by the alternates, if selected as aforesaid, or by drawing from the jury box by
the Municipal Judge in the manner hereinabove stated and subject to being
disqualified for cause.
   (K)   If a person duly summoned to attend the Municipal Court as a juror
fails to attend or to give a valid excuse therefor, he or she may be fined by
the Municipal Judge in a sum not to exceed $250.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 269, passed 12-7-1959; Ord. 484, passed 6-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Deposit for trial by jury in criminal cases, see O.R.S. 221.354
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Water pressure regulators
Rules and Regulations
   
50.15   Purpose; scope
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Service area
   
50.18   Description of service
   
50.19   Application for service
   
50.20   Main extension
   
50.21   Services
   
50.22   Meters
   
50.23   Water rates and charges
   
50.24   Notices
   
50.25   Billing and payments
   
50.26   Meter error
   
50.27   Discontinuance of services
   
50.28   Reconnection of service
   
50.29   Unusual demands
   
50.30   Access to property
   
50.31   Responsibility for equipment
   
50.32   Fire hydrants
   
50.33   Suspension of rules
   
50.34   Easements
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 WATER PRESSURE REGULATORS.
   Upon the sale or transfer, by contract, deed, or otherwise, of any property
served by the city water system, the new owner of the property shall forthwith
cause to be installed a water pressure regulator on the owner’s side of the
curb cock so as to restrict the amount of water pressure to the property to not
more than 80 pounds per square inch. If it is shown that the water pressure to
any certain piece of property does not ever exceed 80 pounds per square inch,
then this section shall be of no force and effect with respect to the property.
(Prior Code, § 51.35) (Ord. 395, passed 5-5-1980)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Short title. This subchapter may be referenced to as the “Rules and
Regulations of the Falls City Water System,” and may be so cited and pleaded.
   (B)   Scope. The Water Department, and all customers receiving services from
the Water Department, whether inside or outside the city limits, are bound by
these rules and regulations of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person or persons, firm, or corporation making application
for water service from the Water Department under the terms of these
regulations.
   CITY. The legally constituted municipal government of the City of Falls
City, Polk County, Oregon.
   CITY COUNCIL. The legally elected group of members composing the City
Council, including the Mayor.
   CUSTOMER or USER. An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of
these regulations, and who receives water service from the Water Department.
   RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL. Res. 98-06 setting rates and fees, as adopted on
January 6, 1998, until superseded, in which case it shall mean the most recent
resolution of the City Council setting rates and fees.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to superintend the
affairs of the Water Department or, if none, the City Recorder/Administrator.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The City Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.17 SERVICE AREA.
   The area served by the Water Department shall be all that area included
within the corporate limits of the city, and any other contiguous and
neighboring territory as the City Council shall, from time to time, deem
necessary to serve.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.18 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Supply. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence and
care to deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at
a reasonable pressure and to avoid, so much as reasonably possible, any
shortage or interruption in delivery. The Water Department shall not be liable
for damage resulting from the interruption in service or from the lack of
service. Temporary suspension of service by the Water Department for
improvements and repairs will be necessary occasionally. Whenever possible, and
when time permits, all customers affected will be notified prior to shutdowns.
   (B)   Quality. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence to
supply safe and potable water at all times.
   (C)   Ownership of system. All water mains, water meters, valves, fittings,
hydrants, and other appurtenances, except CUSTOMER SERVICE LINES, as defined in
§
50.21(A), shall be the property of the Water Department.
   (D)   Classes of service.
      (1)   The classes of service shall be residential, commercial, standby
fire, and contract inside city limits or outside city limits; and
      (2)   Classes shall be described as follows.
         (a)   Residential service. Residential services shall consist of all
services for domestic purposes, single-family dwellings, homes, and municipal
purposes.
         (b)   Commercial service. Commercial services shall consist of those
services where water is used for commercial services, such as businesses and
multi-family dwellings.
         (c)   Standby fire. Standby fire services shall consist of those
services where water is available or used for fire protection only.
         (d)   Contract service. Contract service shall consist of those
services for industrial or independent water district purposes under contracts
authorized by the City Council.
   (E)   Special contracts. When the applicant’s requirements for water are
unusual or large, such as an independent water district or necessitate
considerable special or reserve equipment or capacity, the Water Department, by
authorization of the City Council, reserves the right to make a special
contract, the provisions of which are different from, and have exceptions to,
the regularly published water rates, rules, and regulations. This special
contract shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and approved by the City
Council and City Attorney, and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder/
Administrator.
   (F)   Resale of water. Resale of water shall be permitted only under special
contract, in writing, between the City Council and the persons, parties, or
corporations selling the water.
   (G)   Service preference. In cases of shortage of supply, the Water
Department reserves the right to give preferences in the matter of furnishing
service to customers and interest of the Water Department from the standing of
public convenience or necessity. Water service to users outside of the city
limits shall at all times be subject to the prior and superior rights of the
customers within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.19 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application form.
      (1)   Each applicant for water service shall sign an application form
provided by the Water Department giving the date of application, location of
premises to be served, the date the applicant desires services to begin,
purpose for which service is to be used, the address for mailing of the
billings, the class and size of the meter service, and any other information as
the Water Department may reasonably require. In signing the application, the
customer agrees to abide by these rules and regulations of the Water
Department. The application is merely a written request for service and does
not bind the Water Department to provide service.
      (2)   Effective as of March 1, 2000, all new applications for water
service shall be made by the property owner(s) of record. All new deposits and
customer accounts shall be maintained in the name of the property owner(s) of
record. For properties being purchased through a land sale contract, the owner
(s) of record shall be those designated as “agent” on the rolls of the County
Assessor’s office.
   (B)   Deposits and establishment of credit. At the time the application for
service is made, the applicant shall establish his or her credit with the Water
Department.
      (1)   The credit of the applicant will be deemed established if the
applicant makes a cash deposit with the Water Department to secure the payment
of bills for service. The deposit shall be a sum equal to the estimated bill
for two-months’ service, or as otherwise established by resolution of the
Council.
      (2)   At the time the deposit is given to the Water Department, the
applicant will be given a receipt for the same. The deposit is not to be
considered as a payment on account. In the event the service is discontinued,
the deposit shall be applied to the closing bill, and any amount in excess of
the closing bill shall be refunded. The Water Department will not pay interest
on any deposit.
      (3)   If an account becomes delinquent and it is necessary to turn off
the service, the deposit shall be applied to the unpaid balance due. Water
service will not be restored to that premises or that customer at different
premises until all outstanding bills due the Water Department have been paid
and the cash deposit replaced, together with the reconnect fee as established
by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   Application amendments. Customers desiring a material change in the
size, character, or extent of equipment or operation which would result in a
material change in the amount of water used shall give the Water Department
written notice of the change prior to the change and the application for
service shall be amended. Customers desiring a change in the size, location, or
number of services shall fill out an amended application.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 477, passed 1-31-
2000)
§ 50.20 MAIN EXTENSION.
   (A)   Within the city limits. Water main extensions to areas within the city
limits not presently served with water shall be a minimum of six-inch pipe of a
material specified by the city and become the property of the Water Department
at the time of installation. Extensions inside the city limits shall be
installed by the Water Department or by contractors approved by the Water
Department. The installation procedures and materials used shall be in
accordance with current city and/or State Health Department standards.
Subdividers for newly partitioned properties will assume all costs of main
extensions with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Outside the city limits. Water mains outside the city limits shall be
extended only at the expense of the customers served. The main extensions shall
be a minimum of six-inch pipe of a material specified by the city and become
the property of the Water Department at the time of installation. Extensions
outside the city limits shall be installed by the Water Department, or by
contractors approved by the Water Department. The installation procedures and
materials used shall be in accordance with current city and/or State Health
Department standards. Subdividers for newly partitioned properties will assume
all costs of main extensions with the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Locations of extensions. The Water Department will make water main
extensions only on rights-of-way, easements, or publicly owned property.
Easements or permits secured for main extensions shall be obtained in the name
of the city, along with all rights and title to the main at the time the
service is provided to the customer paying for the extension.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.21 SERVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The part of the piping on the customer’s property
that connects the service to the customer’s distribution system.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system which
connects the meter to the main line, and shall normally consist of corporation
stop, service pipe, curb stop and box, meter, meter yoke, and meter box.
   (B)   Ownership, installation, and maintenance. The Water Department shall
own, install, and maintain all services and installation, and maintenance shall
only be performed by authorized employees of the Water Department. The customer
shall own, install, and maintain the service line.
   (C)   Service connection charge. At the time the applicant files for service
where no service previously existed, or if he or she is filing for a change in
service size or location, he or she shall submit with his or her application
the service connection charge. This charge is to cover the actual cost to the
Water Department to install the first 100 feet of service from the main line
to, and including, the meter and meter housing. The minimum service connection
charge shall be as established by resolution of the Council. If the length of
main line to the meter location exceeds 100 feet, the applicant shall pay the
extra cost of the line on the basis of actual cost to the Water Department for
labor, materials, and equipment plus 15%.
   (D)   Size of service line. The Water Department will furnish and install a
service line of the size and at the locations as the applicant requests;
provided, the requests are reasonable and that the size requested is one that
is listed by the Water Department. The minimum size of the service line shall
be three-fourths inch. The Water Department may refuse to install a service
line which is undersized or oversized as determined by a study and report of
the Superintendent to the City Council.
   (E)   Changes in service size. Permanent changes in the size of the service
line requested by the customer shall be paid by the customer on the basis of
actual cost to the Water Department for making the change.
   (F)   Length of service line. Where the main line is in a public right-of-
way, the meter will be placed at the right-of-way line nearest the property to
be served for the standard connection fee; provided, the length of service line
does not exceed the width of the right-of-way. Where the main line is on an
easement or publicly owned property other than designated rights-of-way, the
service shall be installed to the boundary of the easement or public property
by the Water Department; provided, the length of service does not exceed 100
feet. If, in either case cited herein, the length of the service line to the
meter location exceeds the maximum stated, the applicant shall pay the extra
cost of the line on the basis of actual cost to the Water Department for labor,
materials, and equipment plus 15%.
   (G)   Joint service connections. The Water Department may, at its option,
serve two or more premises with one connection. On new service connections, the
inside diameter of the joint lines shall be sufficient to provide a carrying
capacity of not less than the combined capacity of individual service lines of
the same size as the meters installed. Service extensions from an existing
service to other occupancies or ownerships than that for which the existing
service was intended shall not be permitted, nor shall separate residences be
permitted to receive service through one meter except under special
considerations approved by the City Council.
   (H)   Number of service connections on premises. The owner of a single
parcel of property may apply for, and receive, as many services as he or she,
and his or her tenants, may require; provided, his or her application or
applications meet the requirements of the policies, rules, and regulations.
   (I)   Standby fire protection service connections.
      (1)   Purpose. Standby fire protection service connections of two-inch
size and larger will be installed only if adequate provisions are made to
prevent the use of water from the services for purposes other than fire
extinguishing. Sealed fire sprinkler systems with water-operated alarms shall
be considered as having the provisions. The Water Department may require that a
suitable detector check meter be installed in the standby fire protection
service connections to which hose lines or hydrants are connected. All piping
on the customer’s premises shall be installed in accordance with the plumbing
code of the state.
      (2)   Charges for service. Charges for standby fire protection service
will be as established by resolution of the Council. No charge will be made for
water used in the standby fire protection services to extinguish accidental
fires or for routine testing of the fire protection system. The customers shall
pay the full cost of the standby protection service connection, any required
detector check meters, and any required special water meter installed for the
service to the standby connection.
      (3)   Violations of regulations. If water is used from a standby pipe
connection service in violation of these regulations, an estimate of the amount
used will be computed by the Water Department. The customer shall pay for the
water used at the regular rates, including the minimum charge based on the size
of the service connection and subsequent bills rendered on the basis of the
regular water rates.
   (J)   Fire services connections other than standby. A service having fire
protection facilities on the premises and water for other purposes flowing
through the same service connection shall be considered as an ordinary service
and metered as such. All water used through that service, regardless of its
use, will be charged at the regular rates.
   (K)   Temporary service connections. For water service of a temporary
nature, applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and material furnished by the
Water Department. The applicant shall also pay his or her water bill in advance
and based on an estimate of the quantity to be used, or he or she shall
otherwise establish satisfactory credit.
      (1)   Time limit. Temporary service connections shall be discontinued and
terminated within six months after installation unless an extension of time is
granted, in writing, by the Water Department.
      (2)   Charge for water served. Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the same rates as for regular services
as established by resolution of the Council.
      (3)   Installation charge and deposits. An applicant for temporary
service will be required:
         (a)   To pay the Water Department, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing all facilities necessary to furnish each service;
         (b)   To deposit an amount sufficient to cover bills for water during
the entire period the temporary service may be used, or to otherwise establish
credit approved by the Water Department; and
         (c)   To deposit with the utility an amount equal to the value of any
equipment loaned by the Water Department to the applicant under the terms of
division (K)(4) below.
      (4)   Responsibility for meters and installation. The customer shall use
all possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the Water Department. If the meter or other facilities are
damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be deducted from the deposit fund. If
the loaned materials are returned in satisfactory conditions and all bills
paid, the full amount of the equipment deposit will be returned to the
temporary customer at the termination of service.
   (L)   Customer’s plumbing.
      (1)   Plumbing code. The customer’s plumbing, which shall include the
customer’s service line and all plumbing, piping, fixtures, and other
appurtenances carrying, or intended to carry, water, sewer, or drainage shall
comply with the plumbing code of the state.
      (2)   Control valves. Customers shall install a suitable control valve in
the customer service line as close to the meter as possible, the operation of
which will control the entire water supply to the premises served. In the event
a customer’s service is discontinued for any reason, a control valve must be
installed if none exists, as provided by this section. It shall be a violation
of these rules and regulations for the customer to operate, cause, or permit
unauthorized operation of the meter stop, or any appurtenances on the service
connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.22 METERS.
   (A)   Ownership. The Water Department will own and maintain all water
meters. The Water Department will not pay rent or any other charge for a meter
or other water facilities, including housing and connections on a customer’s
premises.
   (B)   Installation. Installation of water meters will be performed only by
authorized employees of the Water Department. All meters shall be sealed by the
Water Department at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by one of its authorized employees.
   (C)   The size and type of meter. An applicant may request and receive any
size meter regularly stocked or furnished by the Water Department, provided the
request is reasonable; and further provided that the meter is not greatly
oversized or undersized, as determined by the Water Superintendent. The Water
Department reserves the right to determine the type of meter to be installed.
   (D)   Location of meters. Meters shall normally be placed at the curb or
property lines. The meter will be installed wherever the applicant desires
within reason, but the location must be approved by the Water Department. The
meters will not be located in driveways or other locations where damage to the
meter, or its related parts, may occur.
   (E)   Joint use of meters. The joining of several customers to take
advantage of the single minimum charges and large quantity rates shall be
prohibited, except under special contract, in writing, with the City Council.
   (F)   Changes in size or location.
      (1)   If, for any reason, a change in the size of a meter and service is
required, the installation will be accomplished on the basis of a new
connection, and the customer’s application shall be amended.
      (2)   Meters or services moved for the convenience of the customer will
be relocated only at the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.23 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The water rates to be charged for each class of service, including minimum
charges, charges for water consumption, service connection charges, and all
other related fees and charges shall be as established by resolution or
ordinance of the Council, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Res. 98-06, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-
1998; Ord. 493, passed 5-2-2001)
§ 50.24 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notices to customers. Notices from the Water Department to the
customer will normally be given in writing and either mailed to, or delivered
to, him or her at his or her last known address. Where conditions warrant and
in emergencies, the Water Department may notify either by telephone or
messenger.
   (B)   Notices from customers. Notices from the customer to the Water
Department may be given by the customer, or his or her authorized
representative, orally or in writing at the office of the Water Department in
the City Hall, or to an agent of the Water Department duly authorized to
receive notices or complaints.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.25 BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Meter readings. Meters will be read and customers billed in arrears on
the basis of the meter reading to the last 1,000 gallons. The Water Department
will keep an accurate account on its books of all reading of meters, and the
accounts so kept shall be offered at all times, places, and courts as prima
facie evidence of the use of water service by the customer.
   (B)   Rendering of bills.
      (1)   Billing period. All meters shall be read and bills rendered
therefor monthly.
      (2)   Bills for other than normal billing period. Opening or closing
bills, or bills that, for any other reason cover a period containing 10% more
days or 10% less days than in the normal billing period shall be pro-rated.
      (3)   Bills for more than one meter. All meters supplying a customer’s
premises shall be billed separately, except that where the Water Department has
for operating purposes installed two or more meters in place of one, the
reading may be combined for billing.
   (C)   Disputed bills. When a customer disputes the correctness of any bill,
he or she shall submit a written request for a hearing by the City Council at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, and deposit the amount of the disputed
bill within ten days of receipt of the disputed bill, pending final settlement
of the bill or bills. A determination of the City Council after a hearing on a
disputed bill shall be final. Any subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on
deposit in a similar manner until the dispute is heard by the Council. The
customer’s service shall not be disconnected while the dispute is pending, and
for ten days after a decision by the Council is made. Failure of the customer
to make such a written request and deposit within ten days shall warrant
discontinuance of service as provided under division (F) below, and the
imposition of any other remedies available under §
50.27(B).
   (D)   Failure to read meters. In the event that it shall be impossible or
impractical to read a meter on the regular date, the water consumption shall be
pro-rated on the basis of 30 days per month, and the total water consumption
for billing purposes for that period shall be estimated.
   (E)   Payment of bills. Each bill rendered shall contain the final date on
which payment is due. If the bill is not paid by that date, the account shall
be considered delinquent, unless other arrangements have been made with the
Water Department, in writing, that specify another due date.
   (F)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Delinquent notice. A reminder of account delinquency may be sent,
at the discretion of the City Recorder/Administrator, to each delinquent
account on or about ten days after the account becomes delinquent.
      (2)   Turn-off notice. On or about 15 days after an account becomes
delinquent, a turn-off notice may be sent to the customer. The notice shall
state a date on which water will be turned off if the delinquent account is not
paid in full prior thereto.
      (3)   Service turn-off. On the turn-off date, the meter reader or other
agent of the city shall deliver a written notice to the customer stating that
the water service is being turned off until all delinquent amounts have been
paid. The meter reader or other agent of the city shall immediately thereafter
turn off the service. A delivery to the premises served by the meter shall be
considered a delivery to the customer.
      (4)   Service charge. In all instances where water has been turned off
because of delinquent accounts, a service charge for the reconnection of
services and replacement of cash deposit shall be made as established by
resolution of the Council. Effective March 1, 2000, water service shall be
reconnected only upon application and replacement of cash deposit by the
property owner(s) of record, if the customer account was held in a name other
than the owner(s) of record when service was turned off.
   (G)   Installment payments of delinquent accounts. In cases of extreme
hardship, the City Recorder/Administrator shall have the discretion of renewing
service to a delinquent account upon receipt of a satisfactory installment
payment agreement for the overdue amount, provided that new billings remain
current.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998; Ord. 477, passed 1-31-
2000)
§ 50.26 METER ERROR.
   (A)   Meter accuracy. All meters will be tested prior to installation. No
meter will be placed in service or allowed to remain in service which is known
to have an error in registration in excess of 2% under conditions of normal
operations.
   (B)   Meter test.
      (1)   Meter tests will be conducted in accordance with standards of
practice established by the American Water Works Association.
      (2)   A customer may, giving not less than seven-days’ notice, request
the Water Department to test the meter servicing his or her premises. The Water
Department will require the customer to deposit the testing fee. This fee shall
be $25, or as otherwise established by resolution of the Council, for meters
three-fourths inch and smaller, and for meters larger than three-fourths inch
shall be an estimate of the cost of testing the meter as determined by the
Water Superintendent. The deposit will be returned to the customer if the test
reveals the meter to over-register more than 2% under the standard test
conditions, otherwise, the deposit shall be retained by the Water Department.
Customers may, at their option, witness any meter test which they request.
      (3)   If, upon comparison of past water usage, it appears that a meter is
not registering properly, the Water Department may, at its option, test the
meter and adjust the charges accordingly if the meter either over-registers or
under-registers. No charge for meter testing will be made to the customer for
the meter test under these conditions.
   (C)   Adjustments of bill for meter error.
      (1)   No credit or debits will be borne by the city or the customers
should the tested meter show variance high or low from the accuracy defined in
division (A) above.
      (2)   The Water Department will bill the customer for water consumed
while the meter was not registering. The bill will be computed upon an estimate
of consumption based either upon the customer’s prior use during the same
season of the year, or upon a reasonable comparison with the use of other
customers receiving the same class of service during the same season and under
similar circumstances and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.27 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICES.
   (A)   On customer request. Each customer about to vacate any premises
supplied with water service by the Water Department shall give the Water
Department written notice of his or her intentions at least two-days prior
thereto, specifying the date service is to be discontinued; otherwise, he or
she will be responsible for all water supplied to the premises until the Water
Department shall receive notice of the removal. At the time specified by the
customer that he or she expects to vacate the premises where service is
supplied or that he or she desires service to be discontinued, the meter will
be read and a bill rendered which is payable immediately. In no case will the
bill be less than the monthly minimum specified in the schedule applying to the
class or classes of service furnished.
   (B)   Remedies for nonpayment of bills. A customer’s water service may be
discontinued if the water bill is not paid in accordance with the procedures
listed in §
50.25(C), (F), or (G). Additionally, if any billing for rates, fees, or other
charges is not paid within 90 days of the date it became due, or 90 days after
the date the Council determined that a disputed bill was due, by any such
person, firm, or corporation, the amounts so unpaid may be certified by the
city to the County Assessor, and shall be assessed by him or her against the
premises served, as provided by law, and shall be collected and paid over to
the city in the same manner as other taxes are assessed, collected, and paid
over, with interest. Interest on unpaid bills shall run from the due date
thereof at the rate of 8% per annum, or as otherwise established by resolution
of the Council. The unpaid charges may also be recovered in an action at law in
the name of the city, with interest as aforesaid. These remedies are not
mutually exclusive, and shall be in addition to any penalty assessed under §
50.99.
   (C)   Nonpayment of sewer service charges. If sewer service charges are not
paid when due by any such person, firm, or corporation whose premises are
serviced or who are subject to the charges herein provided, water service
provided to that customer by the City Water Department may be discontinued
because of the default in the payment of the sewer service charges.
   (D)   Improper customer facilities.
      (1)   Unsafe facilities. The Water Department may refuse to furnish water
and may discontinue service to any premises without prior notice where plumbing
facilities, appliances, or equipment using water are dangerous, unsafe, or not
in conformity with the plumbing code of the state.
      (2)   Cross-connections. A CROSS-CONNECTION is defined as any physical
connection between the Water Department’s system and another water supply. The
State Health Division and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency prohibit
cross-connections. The Water Department will not permit any cross-connection,
and will discontinue service to any persons or premises where a cross-
connection exists. Service will not be restored until the cross-connection is
eliminated. Customers using water from one or more sources in addition to
receiving water from the Water Department on the same premises shall maintain
separate systems for each, and comply with all aspects of §§
52.01 through
52.08.
   (E)   Water waste. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer’s premises, seriously affecting the general service, the Water
Department may discontinue service if the conditions are not corrected after
due notice by the Water Department.
   (F)   Service detrimental to others. The Water Department may refuse to
furnish water and may discontinue service to any premises where excessive
demands by one customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   (G)   Fraud or abuse. The Water Department will refuse or discontinue
service to any premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the Water
Department from fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service from one or both of
these causes will be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the Water
Department that the condition or conditions exist.
   (H)   Unauthorized turn-on. Where water service has been discontinued for
any reason and the water is turned on by a customer or other unauthorized
person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The
charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be
computed at actual cost to the Water Department plus 15% overhead, but not less
than $50, or as otherwise established by resolution of the Council. These
charges shall be billed to the offending customer, and water shall not be
furnished to the premises or customer until the charges are paid and the Water
Department has reasonable assurance that the violation will not reoccur.
   (I)   Noncompliance with regulations. The Water Department may, upon five-
days’ notice, discontinue service to a customer’s premises for failure to
comply with any of the provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.28 RECONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Reconnection of service after discontinuance for nonpayment of bills shall
be made after payment of current and past due charges, and posting a deposit
pursuant to §
50.25(F)(4). Reconnection of service after discontinuance of service for any
other reason, such as unsafe facilities, water waste, fraud, abuse, or
noncompliance with any of the policies, rules, and regulations will only be
made after the irregularity has been corrected and the Water Department has
been assured that the irregularity will not reoccur. The reconnection charges
shall be made as established by resolution of the Council, plus any other
charges or costs due or past due that the Water Department may have incurred to
correct the irregularity.
(Prior Code, § 51.14) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.29 UNUSUAL DEMANDS.
   When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a swimming
pool, log pond, or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with the
utility prior to taking the water. Permission to take water in unusual
quantities will be given only if the Water Department facilities and other
customers are not inconvenienced.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.30 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   All duly appointed employees of the Water Department, under the direction of
the Water Superintendent, shall have free access at all reasonable hours of the
day to perform all necessary repairs, maintenance, inspections, and meter
readings. The Water Department does not, however, assume the duty of inspecting
the customer’s line, plumbing, and equipment, and shall not be responsible
therefor. Denial or hindrance in any way to any city official or employee of
the Water Department in the performance of his or her duties shall constitute
cause for immediate termination of all service without further notification.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.31 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for customer equipment. The Water Department shall not
be liable for any loss or damage of any nature whatsoever caused by any defect
in the customer’s line, plumbing, or equipment, nor shall the Water Department
be liable for loss or damage due to interruption of service or temporary
changes in pressure. The customer shall be responsible for valves on his or her
premises being turned off when the water service is turned on.
   (B)   Responsibility for Water Department equipment. Water Department
equipment on the customer’s premises remains the property of the Department and
may be repaired, replaced, or removed by the Department employees at any time
without consent of customer. No payment will be made to the property owner for
the right to install, maintain, replace, or remove Water Department equipment
on his or her premises. The property owner must keep vicious dogs or other
animals secured or confined to avoid interference with the utility operation,
maintenance, and reading of meters.
   (C)   Damage to Water Department distribution system, facilities, and
equipment. The customer shall be liable for any damage to distribution system,
facilities, and equipment owned by the Water Department which is caused by an
act of the customer, his or her tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees, or permitees. Damage shall include, but not be limited to, breaking
of seals and locks, tampering with meters, injury to meters, injury to
distribution lines, including, but not limited to, damage by hot water or steam
and damaged meter boxes, curb stops, meter stops, and other appurtenances.
Failure to make restitution in full within 90 days of notice and billing shall
result in a lien being assessed against the customer’s property, as provided
for in §
50.27(B).
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.32 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Operation. No person or persons, other than those designated and
authorized by the Water Department, shall open any fire hydrant belonging to
the Water Department, attempt to draw water from it, or in any manner damage or
tamper with it. Any violation of this regulation will be prosecuted according
to law. No tool, other than special hydrant wrenches, shall be used to operate
a hydrant valve. In cases where a temporary service has been granted and
received water through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary external valve will be
provided to control the flow of water.
   (B)   Moving a fire hydrant.
      (1)   When a fire hydrant has been installed in the locations specified
by the proper authority, the Water Department has fulfilled its obligation.
      (2)   If a property owner or other party desires to change the size,
type, or location of the hydrant, he or she shall bear all costs of the
changes.
      (3)   Any changes in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by
the Water Department and the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   No employee of the Water Department is authorized to suspend or alter any of
the policies, rules, and regulations cited herein without specific approval or
direction of the City Council, except in cases of emergency involving loss of
life or property, or which would place the water system operation in jeopardy.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.34 EASEMENTS.
   Each applicant and user, as a condition of service, gives and grants to the
city an easement and right-of-way in, on, across, and under his or her property
for the installation and maintenance of water lines, water meters, and the
necessary valves and equipment in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.34 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.
Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other remedies available to the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 98-471, passed 5-4-1998)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Use of on-site, community sewers
   
51.04   On-site sewer systems
   
51.05   Community sewer system connections
   
51.06   Connection fees
   
51.07   Use of public sewers
   
51.08   Responsibility for damage
   
51.09   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.10   Construction of building sewers
Sewer User Charges
   
51.25   Generally
   
51.26   Review, revision of rates; notification
   
51.27   Responsibility, payment delinquencies
   
51.28   Handling of funds
   
51.29   Appeals
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The city, in a further desire to define its responsibilities and the
responsibilities of property owners to the community sewer system and the on-
site sewer systems, and the availability of that system and requirement for its
use of its residents, sets out the following requirements.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. Defined by the State Plumbing Specialty Code, and extends
from a building and terminates five feet outside of a building.
   BUILDING SEWER. Defined by the State Plumbing Specialty Code, and is the
extension from the building drain to the interceptor tank.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. All premises, except those designated as public
buildings by the City Council, that are used for any purpose other than as a
residence.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. All public sewers operated under city authority.
   EFFLUENT SEWER. The part of the community sewer system located between an
interceptor tank and a street sewer.
   INTERCEPTOR TANK. A tank installed between the building sewer and the
community sewer. INTERCEPTOR TANKS are city property and part of the community
sewer system.
   ON-SITE SYSTEM. A septic tank and drainfield, or mounded or other
collection, treatment, and disposal system, that is initiated and completed on
private property and is not connected to the community sewer system.
   PERSON. Any individual, company, firm, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any premises or part of any premises used primarily for
public purposes and designated a public building by the City Council.
   PUBLIC SEWER. All community sewer systems.
   PUBLIC TREATMENT WORKS. Any treatment works owned and operated by the city.
   RESIDENCE. A structure used primarily for residential purposes.
   SANITATION MANAGER. The Chairperson of the Sewer Board of the city, or the
individual authorized to act on behalf of the city.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried human wastes, including kitchen, bath, and laundry
wastes from residences, buildings, industrial establishments, or other places,
together with any groundwater infiltration, surface waters, or industrial waste
as may be present.
   SLUGS. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters, but excludes
sewage and industrial wastes and other polluted waters.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.03 USE OF ON-SITE, COMMUNITY SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner, on public or private property within the
city, any sewage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or stream
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage
or other wastes except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage, except as provided in this chapter and approved by the city, or as
approved by the State Department of Environmental Quality or its agent, the
County Sanitarian.
   (D)   Except as stated in division (F) below, the owner of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the city and abutting or within 300 feet of any
street, alley, right-of-way, or easement, in which there is now located or may
in the future be located a community sewer belonging to the city, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable facilities therein,
including an interceptor tank as specified by the Sanitation Manager, and
arrange for connection of the facilities directly to the community sewer
system. The connection shall be made under the direction of the Sanitation
Manager within 90 days after official notice to do so.
   (E)   The Sanitation Manager shall establish, by written policy, the
materials, including interceptor tank and effluent sewer piping, to be used in
the installation, construction, and connection of all new facilities, and shall
establish leakage allowances for both interceptor tanks and effluent sewers
using a standard exfiltration test.
   (F)   (1)   During the initial construction phase of the sand-filter sewer
system, the city shall install all interceptor tanks and sewer lines from the
interceptor tank to the community sewer system, and from the interceptor tank
to within five feet of the structure to be serviced.
      (2)   After the initial construction phase, all connections will be
subject to the permit provisions contained in §
51.04(B) if on-site and §
51.05(B) if a community sewer system connection.
   (G)   Within one year of construction completion, owners shall, at their
expense, abandon and fill all existing on-site septic tanks not connected to
the community sewer system in accordance with the regulations of the State
Department of Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987; Ord. 492, passed 4-9-2001;
Ord. 502-B, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 ON-SITE SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where the community sewer system is not available, building sewers
shall be connected to an on-site disposal system.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of an on-site sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the State Department
of Environmental Quality or the County Department of Environmental Quality, or
equivalent agency, as may be required. The permit for an on-site sewer system
must be approved by the city prior to the issuance of a building permit. An on-
site disposal system will not be allowed if connection to a community sewer
system is possible.
   (C)   When the city determines, by written notice to a property owner, that
its community sewer system is available to property served by an on-site sewage
disposal system, the provisions of §
51.03(D) through (G) shall apply.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Department of
Environmental Quality or the county.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.05 COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The community sewer system, as presently designed, is limited in
capacity for both initial hookups and flow through the system. All connections
to the community sewer system shall be permitted only after the Sewer Board has
determined that there is a demonstrated need for the connection. No connections
shall be allowed outside the corporate city limits.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make a connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any community sewer system without first
obtaining a written permit from the Sanitation Manager. All permit applications
shall be approved by the Sanitation Manager and must meet specifications
specified by the city. A permit inspection fee, in an amount established by the
City Council, shall be paid at the time the permit application is filed.
   (C)   The property owner shall pay all costs and expenses incident to the
installation of the building sewer and its connection to the community sewer
system, including, but not limited to, the costs of interceptor tanks and
effluent lines required to service the property. The property owner shall
reimburse the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
caused by the installation of the building sewer. Nothing contained in this
section shall prevent any person from applying for and receiving any grant
monies available through the County Housing Authority and Urban Renewal Agency.
   (D)   The city may, on a one-time basis only, pay or cause to be paid the
partial cost of installations to the community sewer from the execution of this
chapter until final designs of the public sewer system have been approved. At
all other times, the costs shall be assessed the property owner.
   (E)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to or from the interceptor tank and public sewer system at no cost
to the city.
   (F)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to the public treatment works.
   (G)   A person applying for connection to the community sewer system shall
notify the Sanitation Manager when the effluent sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The Sanitation Manager will inspect the
proposed connection to the street sewer, including the installation of the
interceptor tank and piping. The connection shall be under the supervision of
the Sanitation Manager, or his or her representative. No pipings, fittings, or
tankage shall be backfilled or covered in any way until the Sanitation Manager
has inspected and approved the completed work.
   (H)   All excavations for effluent sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Private contractors involved in the construction described in this chapter
shall defend, preserve, and shall hold the city harmless from any claims made
by third parties injured due to the contractor’s negligence. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and private property disturbed in the course of the work
described herein shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City
Council.
   (I)   The city shall have the right, at all times, to enter property by way
of the appropriate easement, in order to inspect, repair, clean, or otherwise
service the community sewage system, including the interceptor tank.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.06 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a connection fee schedule which it
may change by resolution from time to time. The current fee schedule shall be
attached as Exhibit A to the ordinance codified in this chapter, and by this
reference is incorporated herein. Fees for the connection of existing buildings
to the community sewer system shall be due within 30 days of the notice to
connect sent to all affected property owners by the city. Where permits have
been obtained pursuant to §
51.05(B), connection fees shall by payable in advance. Applicants for
connections to be made after completion of construction of the system shall pay
all costs of making the connection.
   (B)   Those residences and commercial buildings located within the area
served which are not offered the opportunity to connect to the community sewer
system due to the limited number of connections may later be allowed to connect
at the initial hookup rate with applications for grant money, if available,
made by the property owner to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.07 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of the size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (5)   Any wastes not pretreated by an interceptor tank.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances: water, or wastes, if it appears likely in the opinion of the
Sanitation Manager that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Sanitation Manager will give consideration to the factors as to quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment plant exceeds the limits established
by the Sanitation Manager for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in the concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Sanitation Manager as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies or jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Sanitation Manager in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and one-half;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
the quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
      (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
SLUGS, as defined in §
51.02.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (D)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (C) above, and which, in the
judgment of the Sanitation Manager, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Sanitation Manager
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers at no cost to the city;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by wasting taxes or sewer charges.
   (E)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Sanitation Manager, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the appropriate governmental agency and the city, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Interceptors shall be provided by persons discharging into the
sewer.
   (F)   Where preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the public sewage works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct or criminal mischief.
   (B)   At all times, all building sewer lines to any interceptor tank belong
to the private property owner and are the owner’s responsibility for
maintenance and upkeep. Where pumping from an interceptor tank is allowed, the
owner shall be responsible for installation of the electrical panel and wiring
from the residence or business to the interceptor tank and shall pay all
associated power costs. The electrical panel and its wiring will be installed
on the exterior of the building for access. The interceptor tank and all lines
leading from the tank to the public treatment works shall be the responsibility
of the city for maintenance and upkeep.
   (C)   If any damage to the interceptor tank, public treatment works, or
connecting lines is the result of a negligent or intentional act of any
individual, that individual shall be responsible for the cost of any and all
repairs to the lines. If an agreement for payment is not reached between the
city and the parties, the parties causing the damage shall also be responsible
for any reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the city regarding this matter
in any court of appeals.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Sanitation Manager and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Sanitation Manager or duly authorized employees of
the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises and shall
hold harmless the property owner for injury or death to the city employees, and
the city shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the property owner and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the property owner to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Sanitation Manager and other duly authorized employees of the city
shall be permitted to enter all property for the purpose of inspecting and
maintaining the community sewer system or a city easement. All entries and
work, if any, shall be by way of the city’s easement granted by the owner at
the time their permit was approved or connection made to the public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 51.10 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   All building sewers shall be laid on a grade of not less than three
and sixteen-hundredths inch per foot for four-inch pipe and of not less than
one-eighth inch per foot for six-inch pipe.
   (B)   If the grade of the building or side sewer is to be less than three
and sixteen-hundredths inch per foot for four-inch pipe or one-eighth inch per
foot for six-inch pipe, the property owner shall sign and acknowledge a grade
release in a form approved by the city, the effect of which shall be to release
the city from all future claims for damages due to the installation of the
sewer. If there is doubt about grade, a grade release shall be procured before
the pipe is laid. If, upon inspection, the grade is inadequate, the grade
release shall be filed in the office of the City Recorder/Administrator before
any backfilling takes place.
   (C)   All materials, pipes, and fittings used in the construction of
effluent sewer lines on private property must meet published specifications of
good construction as specified by the Sanitation Manager to prevent leakage and
infiltration into the system.
   (D)   Pressure piping, fittings, and cleanouts shall be Class 160 (SDR 26)
pressure-rated PVC piping with rubber gasket joints conforming to ASTM D 1784
and ASTM D 2241. Pipings and fittings for pressure sewer service lines shall be
Class 160 (SDR 26) pressure-rated PVC piping with rubber gasket joints
conforming to ASTM D 1784 and ASTM D 2241, or polyethylene piping, pressure
Class 160 (SDR 26) conforming to ASTM D 2122.
   (E)   Interceptor tanks shall be of concrete construction from a supplier
approved by the city. The city shall keep on file at all times currently
approved manufacturer and/or supplier of approved interceptor tanks with their
current prices as per agreement with the city.
   (F)   Minimum interceptor tank sizes shall be 1,000 gallons per residence.
Minimum interceptor tank sized for businesses or multi-residences shall be in
accordance with requirements set forth by the Department of Environmental
Quality, the requirements to be on file with the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
SEWER USER CHARGES
§ 51.25 GENERALLY.
   (A)   User charges shall be levied on all users of the public sewers or
public treatment works which may cover the cost of operation and maintenance,
debt service, taxes, and other administrative costs of the treatment works.
   (B)   There shall be established classes of users such that all members of a
class discharge approximately the same volume of wastewater per user.
   (C)   The flat charge per appropriate unit shall be established so that each
user pays their proportionate share of the treatment cost. As the flow of
wastewater and discharge is not metered, each user in the particular class
shall be assigned an approximate wastewater volume based on the equivalent
residential unit (ERU) rate.
   (D)   The user rate per ERU shall be established by resolution to be passed
at the same time this subchapter is on its final passage, and the resolution
may be amended from time to time as deemed necessary by the City Council by a
subsequent resolution.
   (E)   Any change in the number of units on the premises of a user shall be
reported by that user to the Sewer Board.
   (F)   Should any user believe that they have been incorrectly assigned to a
particular user class, that user may apply for review of the assigned user
charge, as provided in §
51.29.
   (G)   Should the Sewer Board, or other individual as designated by the
Board, determine that a user is incorrectly assigned to a user class, or that
the strength and/or volume of the user’s wastewater flow is inconsistent with
the assigned user class, the Sewer Board, or other designated individual, shall
reassign a more appropriate user class to that user and notify that user of the
reassignment.
   (H)   Records of all assigned rates shall be kept on file with the Sewer
Board, and shall be open for public inspection.
   (I)   The public sewer system user charges shall be established and adjusted
by resolution of the City Council.
   (J)   The sewer user charge for all occupied property shall begin upon the
acceptance of the public sewer system by the city. The sewer user charge for
all unoccupied property shall begin within 30 days after the property is ready
for occupancy or on the first day of occupancy, whichever occurs first. All
unoccupied property which is ready for occupancy at the time sewer service
becomes available shall be treated as occupied property. Once the sewer user
charge has commenced, no credit shall be given for vacancy. If the dates upon
which the user charge is commenced or altered do not fall on the first day of
billing, the rates shall be appropriately pro-rated.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. 411, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 51.26 REVIEW, REVISION OF RATES; NOTIFICATION.
   The sewer user charges established by resolution shall, as a minimum, be
reviewed biennially, and revised periodically to reflect actual costs of
operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing of the treatment works and
to maintain the equitability of the user charges with respect to proportional
distribution of the costs of operation and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 50.26) (Ord. 411, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 51.27 RESPONSIBILITY, PAYMENT DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   The person who owns the premises served by the public sewer system
shall be responsible for payment of the sewer user charge for that property,
notwithstanding the fact that the property may be occupied by a tenant or other
occupant who may be required by the owner to pay the charges.
   (B)   Sewer user charges shall be due and payable to the city not later than
15 days after the date of billing.
   (C)   Sewer user charges levied in accordance with this subchapter shall be
a debt due the city and a lien upon the property in accordance with O.R.S.
454.225. If this debt is not paid within 60 days after it shall become due and
payable, it shall be deemed delinquent and may be recovered by civil action in
the name of the city against the property owner, the person, or both. At the
Sewer Board’s discretion, water may be shut off when the bill is 60 days
delinquent.
   (D)   Change of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall
not be cause for reducing or eliminating these charges.
(Prior Code, § 50.27) (Ord. 411, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 51.28 HANDLING OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Bills for sewer user charges shall be mailed to the address specified
in the application for permit to make the connection unless or until a
different owner or user of the property is reported to the city.
   (B)   All collections of sewer user charges shall be made to the city.
   (C)   The Sewer Board, or other designated individual, is hereby directed to
deposit in the Sewer System Improvement Fund all of the gross revenues received
from charges, rates, and penalties collected for the use of the sewerage system
as herein provided.
   (D)   The revenues thus deposited in the Sewer Improvement Fund shall be
used exclusively for the operation, maintenance, and repair of the public sewer
system, reasonable administration costs, expenses of collection of charges
imposed by this subchapter and connection fees provided for in this subchapter,
and payment of the principal and interest on any debts of the sewerage system
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.28) (Ord. 411, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 51.29 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any sewer user who feels his or her user charge is unjust and
inequitable as applied to his or her premises, within the intent of the
foregoing provisions, may make written application to the Sewer Board
requesting a review of the user charge. Written requests shall, where
necessary, include all information necessary for the Board to compare this unit
charge to other similar units to determine appropriate charges.
   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the City Council and it shall
determine if it is substantiated or not, including recommending further study
of the matter.
   (C)   If the request is determined to be substantiated, the user charge for
that user shall be recomputed based on the approved unit charge. The new
charges thus recomputed shall be applicable retroactively up to six months, as
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 50.29) (Ord. 411, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.10 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.10, which shall pose a danger or threat to any inhabitant of the city, or
which may harm any part of the community sewer system, as determined by the
Sanitation Manager, shall be cause for the city to enter onto the violator’s
property and to break and plug the connection to the community sewer system, or
to disconnect and discontinue water service to the property, until the time as
the cause of the damage or threat shall be shown to no longer exist, and until
all damages to the community sewer system have been paid.
      (3)   Any person continuing any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation.
      (4)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.10 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of the violation.
      (5)   Each day any provision is violated, or continue to be violated,
after notice is given, is a separate violation. Successive notices are not
required for successive violations.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 420, passed 10-5-1987)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
52.01   General
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Administration
   
52.04   Requirements
   
52.05   Degree of hazard
   
52.06   Existing backflow devices
   
52.07   Periodic testing
   
52.08   Oregon Administrative Rules adopted
§ 52.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply served by the City
Public Works Department from the possibility of contamination or pollution by
isolating, within its customer’s internal distribution system, such
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or backsiphon into the public
water system.
      (2)   To promote the elimination of, or control of, existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the potable water system and source
or non-potable water or other hazardous substances.
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems by cross-connections.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, and the Statutes of
the State of Oregon, O.A.R. 333-61-070 (Program Requirements), 333-61-071
(Installation Standards), and 333-61- 072 (Certification), state that the water
supplier has the primary responsibility for preventing water from unapproved
sources, or any other substances, from entering the public potable water
system.
      (2)   The City Water Department rules and regulations as described in
City Charter, ordinance numbers 372 and 392.
   (C)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The Administrator or designee shall be responsible for the
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to the backflow or backsiphonage of contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of the Administrator
or designee, an approved backflow device is required at the city's water
connection to any customer's remise, the Administrator, or designee, shall give
notice in writing to said customer to install an approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the customer's premise.
      (2)   The customer shall, within 90 days of notification, install such
approved device, or devices, at his or her own expense. Failure, refusal, or
inability on the part of the customer to install, have tested, and maintain
said device or devices within 90 days, shall constitute grounds for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices have
been properly installed and tested.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 476, passed 1-10-
2000; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-2024)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator or his or her delegated representative in
charge of the water section of the Public Works, is invested with the authority
and responsibility for the implementation of a cross-connection control program
and for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the city as meeting an applicable specification stated
or cited in this regulation, or as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply, on or available, to the premises
other than the purveyor's will be considered as an auxiliary water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water and
other liquids, gases or other substances into the distribution pipes of the
potable supply of water from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly or means designed to prevent backflow or
backsiphonage.
      (1)   AIR GAP. A physical separation between free flowing discharge end
of a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving
vessel. An APPROVED AIR GAP shall be at least double the diameter of the supply
pipe measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel, and in no case
be less than one inch.
      (2)   ATMOSPHERE VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents backsiphonage by
creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or sub-
atmospheric pressure on a water system.
      (3)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently
operating spring-loaded check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on
each side of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing
of the check valve.
      (4)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device consisting of one or more spring-
loaded check valves and an independently operating air inlet valve installed as
a unit between two tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check
valves and properly located test cocks for testing. The air inlet valve is
internally loaded to the open position.
      (5)   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device consisting
of two independently acting, spring-loaded check valves separated by a spring-
loaded differential pressure relief valve. This device shall be installed as a
unit between two tightly closing shut-off values and properly located test
cocks for the testing of the check valves and relief valves.
   BACK PRESSURE. Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system (by
pumping, elevation of piping, steam or air pressure) above the supply pressure
at the point of consideration which would cause, or tend to cause, a reversal
of the normal direction of flow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of the pressure
in the potable water supply system.
   CONTAMINANT. Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance
or matter in water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any link or channel between the public water supply and
piping or fixtures which carry other water or other substances.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The network of pipes and other facilities which are
used to distribute water from the source, treatment, transmission, or storage
facilities to the water user.
   DIVISION. The Health Division of the Oregon Department of Human Resources.
   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate or habitat
in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or upon
which a cross-connection is present.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private corporation,
political subdivision or agency of the State Division, agency or
instrumentality of the United States or any other legal entity.
   PERMIT. A document issued by the utility which allows the use of a backflow
preventer.
   UTILITY. City water section of the Public Works Department.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE (CONNECTION). That point in the owner's water system
beyond the sanitary control of the utility; generally considered to be the
outlet end of the water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 476, passed 1-10-
2000; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-2024)
§ 52.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)    The utility will operate a cross-connection control program to
include the keeping of necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of
the Division's cross-connection regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall allow his or her property to be inspected, when given
reasonable notification and during reasonable times, for possible cross-
connections, and shall follow the provisions of the utility's program, and the
Division's regulations if a cross-connection is identified.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-
2024)
§ 52.04 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Utility.
      (1)   On new installations, the utility will provide on-site evaluation
and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of backflow
preventer, if any that will be required, will issue permit, and perform
inspection.
      (2)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the
utility will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises and
inform the owner by letter of any corrective action deemed necessary.
      (3)   The method of achieving the correction, and the time allowed for
the correction to be made.
         (a)   Ordinarily 90 days will be allowed for the correction.
         (b)   This 90-day period may be shortened depending on the degree of
hazard or the history of the device.
      (4)   The utility will not allow any cross-connection to remain unless it
is protected by an approved backflow preventer for which a permit has been
issued and which will be regularly tested to insure satisfactory operation.
      (5)   The utility will inform the owner by letter of any failure to
comply, within ten working days of the first re-inspection.
         (a)   The utility will allow an additional 15 days for the correction.
         (b)   At the end of the additional 15 days a second re-inspection will
be made to determine if corrections have been made.
         (c)   If corrections have not been made, the utility will inform the
owner by letter that the water service to the owner's premises will be
terminated five days from the date of this notice.
         (d)   In the event that the owner informs the utility of extenuating
circumstances as to why the correction has not been made, a time extension may
be granted by the utility but in no case will exceed an additional 30 days.
      (6)   If the utility determines at any time that a serious threat to the
public health exists, the water services will be terminated immediately.
      (7)   The utility shall have on file a list of private contractors who
are certified backflow device testers. All charges for these tests will be paid
by the owner of the building or property.
   (B)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or isolation of
all cross-connections on his or her premises.
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the utility,
shall at his or her expense, install, maintain, and test or have tested, any
and all backflow preventers on his or her premises.
      (3)   The owner shall correct any malfunctions of the backflow preventer
which is revealed by periodic testing.
      (4)   The owner shall inform the utility of any proposed or modified
cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the owner is
aware but has not been found by the utility.
      (5)   The owner shall not install a by-pass around any backflow preventer
unless there is a backflow preventer of the same type on the by-pass. Owners
shall not tamper with backflow devices.
      (6)   The owner shall install backflow preventers in a manner approved by
the utility.
      (7)   The owner shall install only backflow preventers approved by the
Health Division.
      (8)   Any owner having a private well or other private water source, must
have a permit if the well or source is cross-connected to the utility's system.
Permission to cross-connect may be denied by the utility. The owner may be
required to install a backflow preventer at the service entrance if a private
water source is maintained, even if it is not cross-connected to the utility's
system.
      (9)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the utility's side of the backflow preventer,
such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer installed.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-
2024)
§ 52.05 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   (A)    The utility recognizes the threat to the public water system arising
from cross-connections. All threats will be classified by degree of hazard and
will require the installation of an approved backflow prevention device.
   (B)   The term DEGREE OF HAZARD shall mean either a pollution (non-health-
low) or contamination (health-high) hazard and is derived from the evaluation
of conditions within a system.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-
2024)
§ 52.06 EXISTING BACKFLOW DEVICES.
   (A)    Any existing backflow preventer shall be allowed by the utility to
continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the
effectiveness of the preventer, or result in an unreasonable risk to public
health.
   (B)   Where the degree of hazard has increased, as in the case of a
residential installation converting to a business establishment, any existing
backflow device must be replaced with an approved device suitable for that
degree of hazard.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-
2024)
§ 52.07 PERIODIC TESTING.
   (A)    All testable backflow devices shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
   (B)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a certified tester from a list
provided by the utility, this testing will be done at the owner's expense.
   (C)   Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will be
repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the
repair, the device will be re-tested at owner's expense to insure correct
operation. High-hazard situations will not be allowed to continue if the
backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately. In other
situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test date will
be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair tools, or a
replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an effective means
of the owner insuring uninterrupted water service during testing or repair of
devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires such continuity.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (A) if the utility feels that there is a history of test
failures. Cost of additional testing will be borne by the owner. Any
circumstance not covered by this chapter or any of the authorities in §
51.02(B) shall be left to the judgment of the Administrator or designee.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-
2024)
§ 52.08 OREGON ADMINISTRATIVE RULES ADOPTED.
    The city hereby adopts O.A.R. as outlined in Chapter 333, §§ 42-200 through
42-245, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 97-464, passed 3-3-1997; Ord. 566-2024, passed 6-3-
2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State vehicle code adopted
Traffic
   
70.15   Driving in reverse
   
70.16   Maximum speed in parks, cemeteries
Parking
   
70.30   Method of parking
Recreational Vehicles
   
70.45   Bicycles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   A violation of a provision in O.R.S. Chapters 801 through 826
inclusive, as now constituted, shall be an offense against the city.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of a provision of this section that is
identical to a state statute containing a lesser penalty is limited to the
penalty prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 97-466, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 99-474, passed 10-
25-1999; Ord. 504, passed 1-28-2002)
TRAFFIC
§ 70.15 DRIVING IN REVERSE.
   (A)   The operator of any motor vehicle within the city, when parking the
vehicle on a public street, shall park and locate the vehicle along the right-
hand side of the street as determined from the position of the driver of the
vehicle when it is being operated, parallel with the curb line of the street,
and as close thereto as practicable, provided that the parking shall be
diagonal to the curb line where the same has been heretofore designated on
North Main Street.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, vehicles may be
backed into the curb line or otherwise parked where the same can be done in
safety, for the purpose of actually loading or unloading cargo, for the time
that is necessary therefor, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 310, passed 8-1-1966)
§ 70.16 MAXIMUM SPEED IN PARKS, CEMETERIES.
   No person shall, while driving or operating a motor vehicle in reverse,
enter into the intersection of any city streets at which access to the
intersection is controlled on either or all of the intersecting streets by a
stop sign or signs.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) (Ord. 297, passed 7-13-1964)
PARKING
§ 70.30 METHOD OF PARKING.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on lots in, upon, or through the
property of the city parks or the city cemetery at a speed in excess of ten
mph.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 328, passed 1-5-1970)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 70.45 BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride or operate any bicycle upon any street, alley, or
public place within the corporate limits of the city during the period from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, or at any time when
fog or other atmospheric conditions render the operation of the bicycle
dangerous to traffic or the use of the streets, or at any time when there is
not sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on the streets a
distance of at least 200 feet in front of the bicycle, unless equipped with a
headlight affixed to the bicycle and also a reflex mirror or lighted lamp on
the rear of the bicycle exhibiting a red light visible under like conditions
from a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the bicycle.
   (B)   No person shall operate or ride any bicycle upon any street, alley, or
public place in the city with anyone on the handlebars or in front of the
person propelling and guiding the bicycle.
   (C)   No person, while riding or operating a bicycle on any street, alley,
or public place in the city, shall hold on to any other moving bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall ride or operate any bicycle on any sidewalk in the
city; provided, that the carrier of newspapers, while making delivery of the
papers, may ride and operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk outside the fire
limits of the city as long as the bicycle shall be operated in a careful and
prudent manner.
   (E)   Every person riding or operating a bicycle on any street, alley, or
public place in the city shall keep the bicycle on the extreme right of the
traffic lane, and it shall be unlawful for two or more operators of bicycles to
travel abreast, except during the act of passing another bicycle, on any
street, alley, or public place in the city, or to operate the bicycles on
traffic lanes otherwise than in single file.
   (F)   Any person riding or operating a bicycle on any street, alley, or
public place in the city shall be subject to all the laws of the state and the
ordinances of the city applicable to the drivers of vehicles, except the
provisions thereof that by their very nature can have no application. Bicycle
riders must observe stop street regulations.
   (G)   No person shall engage in any stunt riding upon any street, alley, or
public place in the city. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
engage, or cause to run or be engaged, in any bicycle race on any street,
alley, or public place within the corporate limits of the city, except under
permit from, and under supervision of, the City Marshal.
   (H)   The City Council may, if deemed necessary, specify certain parking
areas in the downtown district for the exclusive use of bicycles, and when the
areas are designated it shall be unlawful to park bicycles except in the areas.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 199, passed 12-6-1937) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating a provision of §
70.01 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500,
or both; provided, however, that any offense against the city, which can be
prosecuted as a misdemeanor under §
70.01, shall be treated by the court hearing the offense as a violation with a
fine not to exceed $500, unless a misdemeanor complaint is prepared and served
by the city or the District Attorney.
   (C)   Any person violating §
70.15 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
70.16 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
   (E)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.30(A) shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $50.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
70.45 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof in
the City Police Court, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $25. The
City Auditor and Police Judge may, either in lieu of or in addition to the
fine, prohibit the operation upon the streets, alleys, and public places of the
city, for a period not to exceed 30 days, of the bicycle so used in the
violation, in which event the bicycle so used in the violation shall be
impounded with the City Auditor and Police Judge or the City Marshal, and
retained for the period that the operation thereof is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 199, passed 12-6-1937; Ord. 297, passed 7-13-1964;
Ord. 310, passed 8-1-1966; Ord. 328, passed 1-5-1970; Ord. 97-466, passed 10-6-
1997; Ord. 99-474, passed 10-25-1999)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop, yield intersections
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Pedestrian crosswalks
SCHEDULE I. STOP, YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Driver operating motor Shall At intersection with Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
vehicle on
Driver                        At
operating      Shall          intersection   Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
motor vehicle                 with
on
Alder Street   Stop and yield Fairoaks       343      8-2-1971    Not more than
               right-of-way   Street                              $100
Alder Street   Stop and yield Prospect       356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way   Street                              $50
Alley between
Clark and
Lewis Streets                                                     Not more than
and north of   Stop           Clark Street   294      5-5-1964    $50
Estelle Road
(easterly
direction)
Any street     Stop           North Main     267      8-3-1959    Not more than
                              Street                              $100
Any street,
except         Stop           Mitchell       267      8-3-1959    Not more than
Socialist                     Street                              $100
Valley Road
Boundary       Yield right-   Fairoaks       356      8-22-1972   Not more than
Street         of-way         Street                              $50
                              South Main
Bridge Street                 Street to all
(northerly     Yield right-   traffic making 363      8-5-1974    Not more than
direction)     of-way         right turns                         $100
                              onto Bridge
                              Street
Cameron Street Stop and yield Parry Road     356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way                                       $50
Chamberlain    Stop and yield Bridge Street  356      8-22-1972   Not more than
Street         right-of-way                                       $50
Dayton Street  Yield right-   Mill Street    356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               of-way                                             $50
Ellis Street   Stop and yield Fairoaks       356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way   Street                              $50
                              Ellis Street,
                              provided that
Fairoaks       Stop and yield a right turn                        Not more than
Street         right-of-way   shall be       356      8-22-1972   $50
                              permitted
                              without
                              stopping
Fairoaks       Stop and yield Fifth Street   500      10-8-2001   Not more than
Street         right-of-way                                       $50
Fourth Street                 North Main                          Not more than
(southerly     Stop           Street         267      8-3-1959    $100
direction)
Harrington     Stop           Parry Road     280      3-5-1962    Not more than
Street                                                            $50
Hopkins Street Stop and yield Bridge Street  356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way                                       $50
Lewis Street   Stop           Lombard Street 294      5-5-1964    Not more than
                                                                  $50
Lombard Street Stop and yield Central        384      11-7-1977   Not more than
               right-of-way   Boulevard                           $50
Lombard Street Stop and yield First Avenue   384      11-7-1977   Not more than
               right-of-way                                       $50
Mitchell       Stop           Bridge Street  279      11-6-1961   Not more than
Street                                                            $50
Mitchell       Yield right-   Black Rock     528-2011 12-12-2011  -
Street         of-way         Road
Montgomery     Stop and yield South Main     343      8-2-1971    Not more than
Street         right-of-way   Street                              $100
New Bridge     Not u-turn     North Main     267      8-3-1959    Not more than
Street                        Street                              $100
New Bridge
Street         Stop           North Main     267      8-3-1959    Not more than
(northeasterly                Street                              $100
direction)
Pine Street    Stop and yield Fifth Street   356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way                                       $50
Prospect       Stop           Fifth Street   309      7-11-1966   Not more than
Street                                                            $50
Seventh Street Stop and yield Mitchell       356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way   Street                              $50
Socialist
Valley Road    Yield right-   Mitchell       267      8-3-1959    Not more than
(southeasterly of-way         Street                              $100
direction)
                              Bridge Street;
South Main                    provided, that
Street         Stop and yield a right turn                        Not more than
(westerly      right-of-way   shall be       363      8-5-1974    $100
direction)                    permitted
                              without
                              stopping
Terrace Street Stop           Montgomery     302      2-1-1965    Not more than
                              Street                              $50
Terrace Street Stop and yield Bridge Street  356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way                                       $50
Terrace Street Stop and yield Parry Road     356      8-22-1972   Not more than
               right-of-way                                       $50
Wood Street    Stop and yield Fairoaks       343      8-2-1971    Not more than
               right-of-way   Street                              $100
Notes to Table:
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to place the necessary traffic
signs in the appropriate locations to carry out these provisions.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule I)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
Roadway Portion of Roadway Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
Roadway         Portion of       Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
                Roadway
                Between North
                Main Street and
Bridge Street   the southerly    20 mph      322      11-4-1968   Not more than
                right-of-way of                                   $50
                South Main
                Street
                Between South
Bridge Street   Main Street and  30 mph      322      11-4-1968   Not more than
                Chamberlain                                       $50
                Street
Chamberlain     Between Bridge                                    Not more than
Street          Street and       30 mph      322      11-4-1968   $50
                Valsetz Road
                Between Fifth
                Street and a                                      Not more than
Mitchell Street point which is   30 mph      322      11-4-1968   $50
                100 feet west of
                Tenth Street
North Main      Between Dayton                                    Not more than
Street          Street and Fifth 20 mph      322      11-4-1968   $50
                Street
                Between Dayton
North Main      Street and the   30 mph      322      11-4-1968   Not more than
Street          easterly city                                     $50
                limits
                Between East                                      Not more than
Sheldon Street  Avenue and the   25 mph      399      7-7-1980    $100
                city limits
Valsetz Road    Lying within     30 mph      322      11-4-1968   Not more than
                city limits                                       $50
Notes to Table:
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to place the necessary traffic
signs in the appropriate locations to carry out these provisions.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule II)
SCHEDULE III. PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   A driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection within the city, if the pedestrian is on
the half of the roadway on and along which the vehicle is traveling, or is
approaching the half from the other half of the roadway so closely as to be in
danger; but in proceeding to cross, or in crossing, the roadway, the pedestrian
shall not leave a curb or other place of safety suddenly and move into the path
of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   (B)   Crosswalks for pedestrians are hereby established across the following
streets at the places herein designated:
      (1)   Across North Main Street at its point of intersection with Fourth
Street;
      (2)   Across North Main Street at its point of intersection with Third
Street;
      (3)   Across North Main Street at its point of intersection with Ellis
Street;
      (4)   Across North Main Street at its point of intersection with Boundary
Street;
      (5)   Across Dayton Street at its point of intersection with the south
line of North Main Street;
      (6)   Across New Bridge Street at its point of intersection with the
south line of North Main Street;
      (7)   Across North Main Street at its point of intersection with Dayton
Street;
      (8)   Across Third Street at its point of intersection with the south
line of North Main Street;
      (9)   Across North Main Street at a point of equal distance between Third
Street and New Bridge Street; and
      (10)   Across North Main Street between Boundary Street and Ellis Street,
opposite the entrance of the city high school.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
schedule shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 71, Schedule III) (Ord. 267, passed 8-3-1959; Ord. 277,
passed 4-3-1961)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Diagonal parking
   
III.   Parallel parking
   
IV.   Overnight parking prohibited
   
V.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
Roadway Location Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
Roadway            Location             Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
                   Two-hour parking
                   limit, beginning 20
Bridge Street      feet north from the  289      11-4-1963   Not more than $100
(eastern portion)  intersection of
                   Bridge Street and
                   South Main Street
                   Between Boundary
                   Street and Ellis
North Main Street  Street in excess of  290      1-6-1964    Not more than $25
                   12 hours between 8:
                   00 p.m. and 8:00
                   a.m.
                   From a point 70 feet
                   east of the terminus
                   of the sidewalk at
                   the east side of the
North Main Street  intersection with    527-2011 12-12-2011  -
                   Fourth Street and
                   continuing east
                   therefrom a distance
                   of 31 feet
                   Between Boundary
                   Street and Ellis
North Main Street  Street, except while 290      1-6-1964    Not more than $25
(southern portion) person is in or
                   about the city high
                   school
Third Street       Between North Main
(western portion)  Street and Mill      329A     2-2-1970    Not more than $50
                   Street
                   Beginning at the
                   Falls City entrance
                   sign west to the
                   corner of the east
North Main Street  side of the          562-2023 11-6-2023   -
                   intersection with
                   Ellis Street, on the
                   north side of North
                   Main Street
                   Beginning at the
                   Falls City entrance
                   sign west to the
                   corner of the east
North Main Street  side of the          564-2023 12-4-2023   -
                   intersection with
                   Ellis Street, on the
                   south side of North
                   Main Street
Notes to Table:
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to place the necessary parking
signs in the appropriate locations to carry out these provisions.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 72, Schedule I) (Ord. 562-2023, passed 11-6-2023; Ord.
564-2023, passed 12-4-2023)
SCHEDULE II. DIAGONAL PARKING.
 
Roadway            Location             Ord. No. Date Passed Penalty
                   Commencing 110 feet
                   east of the east
North Main Street  line of Third Street 334      2-8-1971    Not more than $50
(northern portion) and extending east
                   therefrom for 70
                   feet
                   From the Fire Hall
North Main Street  to Third Street,     267      8-3-1959    Not more than $100
(northern portion) limited to 30
                   minutes
                   From a point on the
                   south curb line of
                   North Main Street
                   where the same is
                   intersected by a
North Main Street  line drawn along the
(southern portion) western boundary of  337      3-8-1971    Not more than $50
                   Boundary Street as
                   extended to and
                   across North Main
                   Street, to a point
                   94 feet westerly
                   therefrom
                   Commencing at a
                   point 109 feet
                   westerly from the
North Main Street  south curb line of   337      3-8-1971    Not more than $50
(southern portion) North Main Street to
                   a point 141 feet
                   west of the point of
                   beginning
                   Commencing at a
                   point 158 feet
North Main Street  westerly of the
(southern portion) south curb line of   337      3-8-1971    Not more than $50
                   North Main Street
                   thence westerly a
                   distance of 55 feet
Notes to Table:
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to place the necessary parking
signs in the appropriate locations to carry out these provisions.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 72, Schedule II)
SCHEDULE III. PARALLEL PARKING.
 
Roadway            Location             Ord. No. Date passed Penalty
                   In front of the post
North Main Street  office, for ten      267      8-3-1959    Not more than $100
                   minute limit
                   Commending 14 feet
North Main Street  east of the east
(northern portion) line of Third Street 334      2-8-1971    Not more than $50
                   and extending east
                   therefrom 20 feet
                   From point of
North Main Street  intersection with
(northern portion) Fourth Street and    267      8-3-1959    Not more than $100
                   running easterly
                   four car lengths
                   From easterly line
North Main Street  of Old Bridge Street 289      11-4-1963   Not more than $100
(southern portion) to westerly line of
                   New Bridge Street
Notes to Table:
The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to place the necessary parking
signs in the appropriate locations to carry out these provisions.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 72, Schedule III)
SCHEDULE IV. OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Overnight parking shall be prohibited within the Business District on
the streets of the city.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
schedule shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $100.
(Prior Code, Chapter 72, Schedule IV) (Ord. 267, passed 8-3-1959)
SCHEDULE V. LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle, truck, or trailer on
that portion of the easterly one-half of Third Street commencing at a point 32
feet south of the south curb line on North Main Street and running thence south
a distance of 20 feet, except for the purpose of loading or unloading cargo or
passengers from the vehicle, truck, or trailer. In any event, the parking shall
not exceed 15 minutes in duration, except as to vehicles used by the Post
Office Department. The area shall be designated as a “loading zone,” and the
Chief of Police is directed to post appropriate signs adjacent to the area.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
schedule shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.
(Prior Code, Chapter 72, Schedule V) (Ord. 322, passed 11-4-1968)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Declaration of nuisance
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Nuisances affecting public health
   
90.04   Abandoned iceboxes
   
90.05   Attractive nuisances
   
90.06   Weeds, noxious vegetation
   
90.07   Scattering rubbish
   
90.08   Surface waters; drainage
   
90.09   Accumulation of objects
   
90.10   Radio, television interference
   
90.11   Notices, advertisements
   
90.12   Disabled, inoperable, abandoned vehicles
   
90.13   Open burning
   
90.14   Dangerous buildings; nuisance declared
   
90.15   Disturbance of solid waste in receptacles prohibited
Unnecessary Noise
   
90.25   Purpose
   
90.26   Definitions
   
90.27   Noise disturbance prohibited
   
90.28   Specific noise disturbances
   
90.29   Exemptions
   
90.30   Addition to other law
Abatement of Nuisances
   
90.45   Abatement notice
   
90.46   Abatement by owner
   
90.47   Abatement by city
   
90.48   Assessment of costs
   
90.49   Summary abatement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals as nuisances, see §§
91.35 through
91.37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The acts, conditions, or objects specifically enumerated and defined
in this chapter are declared to be public nuisances, and such acts, conditions,
or objects may be abated by any of the procedures set forth in §§
90.46 through
90.49.
   (B)   In addition to those nuisances specifically enumerated within this
chapter, every other thing, substance, or act that is determined by the Council
to be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare of the
city is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is inoperative, damaged, junked,
partially or completely dismantled, or used for storage purposes.
   AT LARGE. A dog or livestock inside the corporate limits of the city, off
the premises of the keeper, and not under complete control by adequate leash.
The definition includes, but is not limited to, any dog or livestock upon, or
capable of reaching, any public right-of-way, except if the dog or livestock is
on a leash in full and complete compliance with §§
91.02,
91.15 through
91.21, and
91.35 through
91.37. Excepted from this definition are dogs in obedience or field training
exercises under the direct supervision of a handler.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Officers and personnel named by City Council. Law
enforcement officer or officers representing the city for purposes of ordinance
enforcement and citations. For purposes of abatement proceedings as set forth
in §§
90.46 through
90.49 herein, the term CHIEF OF POLICE shall also include any code enforcement
officer as designated by the city, including, but not limited to, the City
Recorder/Administrator, Building Official, Fire Marshal, or County
Representative, as determined the Council.
   BUILDING. A permanent, four-sided roofed structure built or used for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
   CAMPING VEHICLE. Either a vacation trailer or a self-propelled vehicle or
structure equipped with wheels for highway use and that is intended for human
occupancy and for vacation and recreational purposes, but not for residential
purposes, and is equipped with plumbing, sink, or toilet. (See Ord. 99-473,
passed 10-25-1999.)
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CITY. The City of Falls City, Oregon.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building or structure that is structurally unsafe or not
provided with adequate egress, or that constitutes a fire hazard, or is
otherwise dangerous to human life;
      (2)   Any building or structure constituting a hazard to safety, health,
or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage, or abandonment;
      (3)   Parapet walls, cornices, spires, towers, tanks, statuary and other
appendages or structural members that are supported by, attached to, or a part
of a building and which are in deteriorated condition or otherwise unable to
sustain the design loads which are specified by the pertinent code;
      (4)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (5)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (6)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one- and one-half times the
working stress or stresses allowed in the Building Code for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
      (8)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (9)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified in the
Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the Building Code for such
buildings;
      (10)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (12)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
      (13)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (14)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (15)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children;
         (b)   A harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons; or
         (c)   As to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts.
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this jurisdiction, as specified in the Building Code or Housing Code, or of
any law or ordinance of this state or jurisdiction relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings;
      (17)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part,
member or portion less than 66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location.
      (18)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise is determined by the Health Officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause
sickness or disease;
      (19)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire Marshal or
Building Official to be a fire hazard;
      (20)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or inequity jurisprudence;
or
      (21)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS.
      (1)   Any lion, tiger, leopard, cheetah, ocelot, or any other cat not
indigenous to the state, except the species Felis cactus (domestic cat);
      (2)   Any monkey, ape, gorilla, or other non-human primate;
      (3)   Any wolf or any canine not indigenous to the state, except the
species Canis familiaris (domestic dog); and
      (4)   Any bear, except the black bear (Ursus americanus).
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, cattle, sheep, horses, mules,
miniature horses, goats, pygmy goats, ratite (such as ostrich, cassowary, emu,
moa, and the like), or other animal, excluding swine, but including any
furbearing animals bred and maintained commercially or otherwise on property or
within pens, cages, and hutches.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. A tax lot as recorded in the records of the county
regardless of the number of lots or record contained therein. (See Ord. 99-473,
passed 10-25-1999.)
   PROPERTY OWNER. Property owner as recorded with the County Assessor’s office
and the City Utility Department to determine the last known address.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any building, place, or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle with or without motive power that is
designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for recreational,
seasonal, or emergency purposes, including, but not limited to, camping
vehicles.
   STORAGE. Placement anywhere on private property outside of a legally
existing enclosed structure for a period in excess of 72 hours.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by that any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. The definition of a VEHICLE includes wheeled
devices that do not require licensing by the state.
   WILDLIFE. Includes, but is not limited to, amphibians, antelope, beaver,
black bear, bobcat, cougar, coyote, deer, elk, fisher, marten, mink, moose,
mountain goat, mountain sheep, muskrat, otter, raccoon, reptiles, red fox,
silver fox, gray squirrel, and gray fox.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 561-2023, passed 9-11-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Regulations pertaining to animals, see §§
91.01 through
91.04,
91.15 through
91.21, and
91.35 through
91.37
§ 90.03 NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH.
   (A)   No person may permit or cause a nuisance affecting public health.
   (B)   The following are nuisances affecting the public health and may be
abated as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Privies. An open vault or privy constructed and maintained within
the city, except those privies used in connection with construction projects
and constructed in accordance with the Department of Environmental Quality
regulations.
      (2)   Debris or multiple recreational vehicles stored on private
property. Accumulations of debris, rubbish, manure, or other refuse located on
private property not removed within 15 days, or storage of more than one
recreational vehicle on private property. (See Ord. 99-473, passed 10-25-1999.)
      (3)   Stagnant water. Any pool of water that is without a proper inlet or
outlet, that, if not controlled, will be a breeding place for mosquitoes and
other similar insect pests.
      (4)   Water pollution. The pollution of any body of water, well, spring,
stream, or drainage ditch or river by sewage, industrial wastes, or other
substances placed in or near such water in a manner that will cause harmful
material to pollute the water.
      (5)   Food. All decayed or unwholesome food that is offered for human
consumption.
      (6)   Odor. Any premises that are in such a state or condition as to
cause an offensive odor or that are in an unsanitary condition.
      (7)   Surface drainage. Any drainage of liquid waste from private
premises.
      (8)   Recreational vehicles. Storage of any recreational vehicle that is
not mobile or is not currently licensed, if required to be licensed by the
State Vehicle Code when operated on public highways, private property on that
more than one recreational vehicle is stored, or habitation in any recreational
vehicle, on public or private property, without a permit as provided for in
Ord. 521, article 4, § 8.110. (See Ord. 99-473, passed 10-25-1999.)
      (9)   Unlicensed outdoor business. Private property on that is conducted
any business or commercial activity outside of an enclosed, legally existing
structure that is not licensed by the city, with the exception of a garage sale
of three days duration or less. Business license categories and fees may be
changed by resolution of the Council. (See Ord. 99-473, passed 10-25-1999.)
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.04 ABANDONED ICEBOXES.
   No person shall leave in any place accessible to children any abandoned,
unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or similar container that has an
airtight door with a lock, snap lock, or other mechanism that may not be
released for opening from the inside, without fist removing such lock or door
from such lock or door from such icebox, refrigerator, or similar container.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.05 ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person or person in charge of any premises shall permit:
      (1)   Any unguarded machinery, equipment, or other devices on such
premises that is attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children;
      (2)   Lumber, logs, or piling placed or stored on such property in a
manner so as to be attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children; or
      (3)   Any open pit, quarry, cistern, or other excavation to remain open
for an unreasonable length of time without erecting adequate safeguards or
barriers to prevent such places from being used by children.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
construction projects, if during the course of construction reasonable
safeguards are maintained to prevent injury or death to playing children.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.06 WEEDS, NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
         (a)   Poison oak;
         (b)   Poison ivy;
         (c)   Blackberry bushes that extend into public property or across a
property line;
         (d)   Vegetation that is:
            1.   A health hazard;
            2.   A fire hazard;
            3.   A traffic hazard because it impairs the view of a public
thoroughfare or otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare hazardous;
            4.   Weeds or grass more than ten inches high; and/or
            5.   Weeds or grass going to seed;
         (e)   NOXIOUS VEGETATION does not include agricultural crop grown on
property zoned for agricultural purposes, unless that crop is a health,
traffic, or fire hazard.
   (B)   Nuisance. Noxious vegetation is declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Owner responsibility. No owner or person in charge of property may
allow noxious vegetation to be on the person’s property or on the parking strip
or sidewalk area abutting the property. It is the duty of an owner or person in
charge of property to cut down or to destroy noxious vegetation.
   (D)   Notice to abate. Upon determination by the Authorized Representative,
or his or her designee, that noxious vegetation exists on any property, the
Authorized Representative shall cause a notice to be mailed to the owner of the
property. At a minimum, the city shall utilize the records of the County
Assessor and the City Utility Department to determine the last known address.
      (1)   The notice to abate shall contain:
         (a)   A statement that noxious vegetation exists on the property;
         (b)   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which or adjacent to which the noxious vegetation exists;
         (c)   A direction to abate the noxious vegetation within seven days
from the date of the notice;
         (d)   A statement that unless the vegetation is removed within seven
days from the date of the letter the city will abate the nuisance and will
charge the costs of abatement to the property owner;
         (e)   A statement that the owner of the property may protest the
abatement by giving notice to the Authorized Representative within five days
from the date of the notice. An error in the name or address of the owner of
the property shall not make the notice void if the error was caused by the
owner or person in charge of the property failing to notify the city of their
correct name and address. (At a minimum, the city shall utilize the records of
the County Assessor and the City Utility Department to determine the last known
address.)
      (2)   Abatement by the owner shall consist of:
         (a)   Within the time allowed in this section, the owner of the
property shall remove the noxious vegetation or show that no nuisance exists;
         (b)   The owner of property protesting that no noxious vegetation in
fact exists shall file with the Authorized Representative a written statement
that shall specify the basis for so protesting. Based upon a physical
inspection of the property the Authorized Representative, or designee, shall
make a written determination of whether or not the noxious vegetation exists;
         (c)   Should the Authorized Representative determine that the nuisance
does exist, the owner or person in charge of the property may either abate the
vegetation within five days after notice of the Authorized Representative’s
decision, or may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Recorder within five days from the date of the
decision.
         (d)   If the Council determines that noxious vegetation does in fact
exist, the owner or person in charge of the property shall, within five days
after the Council determination, abate the noxious vegetation.
      (3)   Abatement by the city shall consist of:
         (a)   If the noxious vegetation has not been removed within the time
permitted, the Authorized Representative shall cause the vegetation to be
removed. The officer charged with abatement shall have the right to enter into
or investigate, or cause the removal of, the noxious vegetation.
         (b)   The cost of abatement shall be charged at actual costs incurred
by the city, including, but not limited to, costs of removal of the noxious
vegetation, administrative costs, and certified or registered letter mailing
costs.
   (E)   Assessment of costs.
      (1)   The Authorized Representative, by registered or certified mail,
shall forward to the owner of the property a notice stating the total amount of
the cost of abatement. At a minimum, the city shall utilize the records of the
County Assessor and the City Utility Department to determine the last known
address.
      (2)   If the owner of the property does not pay the costs of the
abatement within 30 days from the date of the notice of costs, the city may
take whatever lawful means available to collect the costs.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.07 SCATTERING RUBBISH.
   No person shall throw, dump, or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place any injurious or offensive substance, or any kind of rubbish,
trash, debris, refuse, or any substance that would mar the appearance, create a
stench, detract from the cleanliness or safety of such public place, or would
be likely to injure any animal, vehicle, or person traveling upon a public way.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 SURFACE WATERS; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of any building or structure shall suffer
or permit rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any such building or a structure
on to a street or public sidewalk, or to flow across such sidewalk.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge of property shall install and maintain
in a proper state of repair adequate drainpipes or a drainage system so that
any overflow water accumulating on the roof or about such building is not
carried across or upon any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ACCUMULATION OF OBJECTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place, leave, store, dump, or permit
the accumulation on any open lot or other premises any lumber, yard debris,
boxes, barrels, bricks, stones, scrap metal, motor vehicle bodies or parts, or
similar materials, rubbish or any articles of junk that are not removed within
14 days and that affect the health, safety, or welfare of the city.
   (B)   Excepted from this prohibition are construction materials for ongoing
construction projects, neatly stacked firewood, and compost piles consisting of
vegetable matter.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 RADIO, TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person may operate or use an electrical, mechanical, or other
device apparatus, instrument, or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception; provided, that the radio or
television receiver interfered with is of good engineering design.
   (B)   This section does not apply to electrical and radio devises licensed,
approved, and operated under the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.11 NOTICES, ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   No person may affix or cause to be distributed any placard, bill,
advertisement, or poster upon real or personal property, public or private
property, without first securing permission from the owner or person in control
of the property. This section shall not be construed as an amendment to, or a
repeal of, any regulation now or hereafter adopted by the city regulating the
use of, and the location of, signs and advertising.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the distribution of advertising
material during a parade or approved public gathering.
   (C)   No person, either as principal or agent, may scatter, distribute, or
cause to be scattered or distributed on public or private property any
placards, advertisements, or other similar material.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.12 DISABLED, INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person owning an inoperable vehicle that is located on private
property owned or controlled by that same person shall allow that vehicle to be
exposed to public view for longer than is reasonably necessary to repair or
dispose of it, and in no event longer than 30 days unless it is in connection
with a business dealing with junk vehicles lawfully conducted within the city.
   (B)   The term INOPERABLE VEHICLE, as used in this section, means a vehicle
capable of being towed that:
      (1)   Has been located for more than 30 days on private property owned or
controlled by the person with legal title to the vehicle;
      (2)   Has been extensively damaged, including, but not limited to, a
broken window or windshield, missing wheels, tires, motor, or transmission;
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, a showing that the vehicle, if
operated on a public highway or highway right-of-way of the state, would be in
violation of three or more of the provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 815 and 816, is
indirect evidence that the vehicle is inoperable;
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, an INOPERABLE VEHICLE shall not be
considered exposed to public view if the vehicle is entirely covered;
      (5)   Tagging of an inoperable vehicle shall be done in the same manner
as for disabled, abandoned, and stolen cars as provided in division (D) below.
Such tag shall constitute posting of notice of the purpose of abatement under §
90.45 herein. Only the owner of an INOPERABLE VEHICLE, as defined in this
section, is entitled to the abatement notice and appeal procedure set forth in
§§
90.45 and
90.46 herein with respect to any violation of this section; and
      (6)   Not more than two covered inoperable vehicle may be located on
private property owned or controlled by the person owning the vehicle, unless
the owner has applied for, and been granted by the Council, an exception for a
“classic” vehicle. For the purposes of this section, such classic vehicle shall
be at least 20 years old and have significant intrinsic value over and above
its salvage value. The Council’s decision may be made in conjunction with any
protest to abatement. The decision by the Council regarding a vehicle shall be
final. If the decision is not in favor of the appellant, the vehicle in
question shall be deemed “disabled” ten days after the decision. A vehicle
registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles as an antique vehicle shall be
deemed to be a classic vehicle for the purpose of this section. Not more than
two covered classic vehicles may be stored on private property owned by the
person owning the vehicles, unless such vehicles are stored in an area
designated for classic vehicle storage after appropriate land use proceedings
and public hearings. Any inoperable or classic vehicle, covered or uncovered,
exceeding the number allowed under this section shall be deemed disabled.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, a vehicle that would otherwise be
defined as inoperable, except that legal ownership cannot be established by the
person owning or controlling the private property where it is located shall be
deemed a “disabled” vehicle subject to the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 819 and
division (D) below.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a disabled, abandoned, or stolen vehicle to
remain located on public or private property within city limits for more than
24 hours. Disabled, abandoned, and stolen vehicles on public or private
property may be tagged and towed after 24 hours by the Chief of Police pursuant
to the provisions of O.R.S. Chapter 819, subject to the policies adopted by
resolution of the Council, as may be amended from time to time. The hearing and
appeal procedures contained in O.R.S. Chapter 819 and those policies shall be
the only appeal procedures available for this violation. The abatement
procedures in §§
90.46 and
90.47 herein shall not apply to disabled, abandoned, and stolen vehicles.
Disabled vehicles shall be garaged or removed outside the city limits within 24
hours; changing the location of a disabled vehicle inside city limits shall not
prevent the towing of such vehicle unless garaged. Any vehicle that has been
tagged two previous times within the same 14-day period may be tagged and towed
immediately upon the third violation in such 14-day period.
   (E)   No person shall store partial vehicles, engines, transmissions,
wheels, tires, or other parts of vehicles on private property exposed to public
view, whether or not covered. Such items located on public property, public
streets, or public rights-of-way, whether or not developed or improved, may be
abated by the city ten days after an abatement notice is posted. Items of
trash, junk, or other debris that are not vehicle parts may be abated from such
public property five days after an abatement notice is posted. However, any
items on such public property that constitute an immediate health or safety
hazard may be summarily abated pursuant to §
90.49 herein, including partial vehicles and vehicle parts.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.13 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No trash, grass, brush, or waste material of any kind shall be openly
burned within the city in an unguarded manner and without the attendance of
some competent person in actual attendance at the burning, and in control
thereof.
   (B)   During any season when a burning permit is required, no person shall
openly burn any trash, grass, brush, or waste material of any kind without
first obtaining a permit from the Fire Chief for the burning, as herein
prescribed.
   (C)   Each person desiring to openly burn any material herein referred to
shall first apply for and receive from the Fire Chief a permit for the fire,
the issuance of which shall be discretionary with the Fire Chief with due
regard to existing fire hazards. The Fire Chief shall make any rules and
regulations for burning with a permit as he or she shall deem appropriate. Each
person obtaining a permit shall be given notice of the rules and regulations
under which the permit is issued, and any violations of the regulations shall
be deemed a violation of this section.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall establish the seasons during which a permit shall
be necessary and may delegate the function of issuing permits hereby imposed
upon him or her to any city official as he or she may designate. The Fire Chief
may waive the requirement of obtaining a permit during non-hazardous seasons.
   (E)   The Chief of the Fire Department may, at all reasonable hours, enter
any building, except a private dwelling, for the purpose of providing for fire
prevention and protection in connection with hazardous materials, processes,
and situations. Upon finding any fire hazards existing, he or she may require
the removal or correction of the hazards. Any person failing to take the
measures as may be required in order to eliminate a fire hazard within 30 days
after he or she is served with a written notice by the Fire Chief, containing a
detailed statement of the corrections to be made, shall be deemed in violation
of this section and, upon conviction, punished as herein provided.
   (F)   The Fire Chief is hereby appointed as a Deputy City Marshal for the
purpose of enforcing this section and other fire protection ordinances and, in
connection therewith, shall have all the powers and obligations incidental
thereto, including the power and authority of the City Marshal to make and
affect arrests.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 285, passed 11-5-1962) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Every building found by the Council to be a dangerous building is declared
to be a public nuisance and may be abated by the procedures specified in §§
90.45 to
90.99 or by a suit for abatement brought by the city.
(Ord. 561-2023, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 90.15 DISTURBANCE OF SOLID WASTE IN RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove the lid from any solid waste receptacle or remove,
disturb, collect or scatter solid waste placed in such receptacle or deposit
solid waste into such receptacle, unless the person is authorized to do so by
the generator.
(Ord. 565-2024, passed 3-4-2024)
UNNECESSARY NOISE
§ 90.25 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the Council to minimize the exposure of citizens to the
potential negative physiological and psychological effects of excessive noise
and to protect, promote, and preserve the public health, safety, and welfare.
It is the intent of the Council to control the level of noise in a manner that
promotes the use, value and enjoyment of property, the conduct of business, and
sleep and repose and that reduces unnecessary and excessive sound in the
environment.
(Ord. 556-2019, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single-family dwelling, duplex, triplex, multi-family
dwelling, apartment, condominium, or mobile home.
   DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE. A braking device used primarily on trucks and busses
to convert a motor from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for
the purpose of vehicle braking without the use of wheel brakes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled or designed for self-
propulsion.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound that:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the health or safety of a human;
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
      (3)   Injures or endangers personal or real property.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. The listener can clearly hear the sound produced by a sound
source with unaided hearing faculties. Sounds which may be plainly audible
include, but are not limited to, musical rhythms, engine noises, spoken words
or phrases even though not clearly discernable, and other vocal sounds.
(Ord. 556-2019, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.27 NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly, or
recklessly to create, to permit, to continue, or to assist in the creation or
continuance of any noise disturbance.
(Ord. 556-2019, passed 2-14-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 SPECIFIC NOISE DISTURBANCES.
   Except as provided in §
90.29, the following are declared to be noise disturbances per se. This section
shall not be deemed to limit noise disturbances for the purposes of this
section, to those enumerated herein.
   (A)   Sound producing, amplifying, or reproducing equipment. It shall be
unlawful to operate or use, or to permit the operation or use of, any device
that produces or amplifies sound, including, but not limited to, musical
instruments, radios, televisions, stereos, compact disc players, tape
recorders, amplifiers, and loudspeakers in such a manner that the sound
produced thereby is plainly audible:
      (1)   Within any dwelling unit, church, temple, synagogue, business, day
care center, or school, other than the source of the sound; or
      (2)   On public property or a public right-of-way 150 feet or more from
such device, except as specifically authorized in writing by the city, county,
state, or federal government that owns or controls such property.
   (B)   Dogs. It shall be unlawful to keep, or to permit the keeping of, any
dog or dogs that create any bark, cry, or other sound on a frequent,
repetitive, or continuous basis for ten minutes or longer.
   (C)   Domestic power equipment. It shall be unlawful to operate, or to
permit the operation of, any domestic power equipment between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (D)   Construction or repair of buildings, streets, sidewalks, and the like.
It shall be unlawful to construct, demolish, alter, excavate, rehabilitate, or
repair any building, street, sidewalk, driveway, sewer, or utility line between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (E)   Dynamic braking devices. It shall be unlawful to use any dynamic
braking device on any motor vehicle, except to avoid imminent danger to persons
or property.
   (F)   Idling engines on motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to operate any
idling engine for more than ten consecutive minutes in a manner that is plainly
audible within any dwelling unit between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
of the following day.
   (G)   Motor vehicle repair and testing. It shall be unlawful to repair or
test any motor vehicle in a manner that is plainly audible within any dwelling
unit between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (H)   Steam whistles. It shall be unlawful to blow a steam whistle attached
to a stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop
work.
   (I)   Sirens or other aural warning devices. It shall be unlawful to sound a
stationary siren or other aural warning device, except where necessary to warn
of fire or imminent danger to persons or property.
   (J)   Pile drivers, steam shovels, pneumatic hammers, and the like. It shall
be unlawful to operate, or permit the operation of, any pile driver, steam
shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, hoist, or any other similar equipment
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Ord. 556-2019, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.29 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding §§
90.27 and
90.28, the following sounds shall not be deemed noise disturbances:
   (A)   Sounds made by work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a natural or other disaster, or to protect persons or property from
exposure to imminent danger.
   (B)   Sounds made by burglar or fire alarms operating repetitively or
continuously for not more than ten minutes.
   (C)   Sounds made by an EMERGENCY VEHICLE, as defined in O.R.S. 801.260,
when responding to or from an emergency or when pursuing an actual or suspected
violator of the law.
   (D)   Sounds made by the use of land and buildings as a farm for profit
through the raising, harvesting, and selling of crops; through the feeding,
breeding, management, and selling of livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals,
or honeybees, or the products thereof; through dairying and the selling of
dairy products; or through engaging in any other agricultural or horticultural
activity.
   (E)   Sounds produced by the city, county, state, or their employees,
agents, contractors, or their subcontractors in the maintenance, construction,
or repair of public improvements.
   (F)   Sounds produced pursuant to a variance granted by the State
Environmental Quality Commission.
   (G)   Sounds produced pursuant to, and in conformance with, a valid permit
issued by the city.
   (H)   Sounds produced by sound amplifying equipment at athletic events
sponsored by the city school district, an educational institution registered
with the State Department of Education, an educational institution accredited
by an accrediting agency recognized by the United States Secretary of
Education, or the city.
   (I)   Sounds made by motor vehicle exhaust systems that comply with the
provisions of O.R.S. 815.250, unless the sounds otherwise violates §
90.28(F) and (G).
   (J)   Sounds produced by a public utility, a current franchisee of the city
or their employees, contractors or subcontractors in the construction,
maintenance, or repair of their respective facilities.
(Ord. 556-2019, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.30 ADDITION TO OTHER LAW.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and nonexclusive, and
shall not affect any other claim, cause of action, or remedy; nor, unless
specifically provided, shall it be deemed to repeal, amend, or modify any law,
ordinance, or regulation relating to noise or sound. The provision of this
subchapter shall be deemed additional to existing legislation and common law on
such subject.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
§ 90.45 ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   (A)   Posting. Upon determination by the Council that a nuisance, as
described in this or any other chapter exists, the Council shall forthwith
cause a notice to be posted on the premises where the nuisance exists,
directing the owner or person in charge of the property to abate such nuisance.
   (B)   Notice to owner. At the time of posting, the Authorized Representative
shall cause a copy of such notice to be forwarded by registered or certified
mail, postage prepaid, to the owner and/or person in charge of the property at
the last-known address of such owner or other person. At a minimum, the city
shall utilize the records of the County Assessor and the City Utility
Department to determine the last known address.
   (C)   Notice, contents. The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on that such nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten days from the date of
the notice;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that unless such nuisance is removed the city may abate
the nuisance and the cost of abatement shall be a lien against the property;
and
      (5)   A statement that the owner or other person in charge of the
property may protest the abatement by giving notice to the Authorized
Representative within ten days from the date of the notice.
   (D)   Certificate of mailing and posting. Upon completion of the posting and
mailing, the person posting and mailing the notice shall execute and file a
certificate stating the date and place of such mailing and posting.
   (E)   Sufficiency of posted notice. An error in the name or address of the
owner or person in charge of the property or the use of a name other than that
of the owner as listed with the County Assessor’s Office and the City Utility
Department to the address of record shall not make the notice void and in such
a case the posted notice shall be sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.46 ABATEMENT BY OWNER.
   (A)   Within ten days after the posting and mailing of the notice as
provided in §
90.45, the owner or person in charge of the property shall remove the nuisance
or show that no nuisance exists.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge protesting that no nuisance exists shall
file with the City Recorder a written statement that shall specify the basis
for so protesting.
   (C)   The statement shall be referred to the Council as a part of the
Council’s regular agenda at the next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
consideration of the abatement, the owner or other person may appear and be
heard by the Council and the Council shall thereupon determine whether or not a
nuisance in fact exists and such determination shall be entered in the official
minutes of the Council. Council determination shall be required only in those
cases where a written statement has been filed as provided.
   (D)   If the Council determines that a nuisance does in fact exist, the
owner or other person shall, within ten days after such Council determination,
abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.47 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If, within the time allowed, the owner or person in charge of the
property has not abated the nuisance, the Council may cause the nuisance to be
abated.
   (B)   The officer charged with abatement of such nuisance shall have the
right at reasonable times to enter into or upon property to investigate or
cause the removal of a nuisance.
   (C)   The Authorized Representative shall keep an accurate record of the
expense incurred by the city in abating the nuisance, and shall include therein
a charge of 20% of the expense for administrative overhead.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.48 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Notice. The Authorized Representative, by registered or certified
mail, postage prepaid, shall forward to the owner or person in charge of the
property a notice stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement including the administrative overhead;
      (2)   The cost as indicated will be assessed to, and become a lien
against, the property unless paid 30 days from the date of the notice; and
      (3)   If the owner or person in charge of the property objects to the
cost of the abatement as indicated, the objector may file a notice of objection
with the Authorized Representative not more than ten days from the date of the
notice.
   (B)   Objections to assessment. Upon the expiration of ten days after the
date of the notice, the Council in the regular course of business shall hear
and determine the objections to the costs to be assessed.
   (C)   City liens. If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days
from the date of the notice, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as
determined by Council, shall be made by resolution and shall thereupon be
entered in the docket of city liens and, upon such entry being made, shall
constitute a lien upon the property from that the nuisance was removed or
abated.
   (D)   Lien enforcement. The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as
liens for street improvements are enforced, and shall bear interest at the rate
allowed by law, or such lesser rate as the City Council may from time to time
provide. Such interest shall commence to run from date of entry of the lien in
the lien docket.
   (E)   Assessment error. An error in the name of the owner of the property as
listed with the County Assessor’s office and the city’s Utility Department,
shall not void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the notice of the
proposed assessment render the assessment void, but it shall remain a valid
lien against the property.
   (F)   Recovery of public costs for on-site assessment and clean up of
property declared public health nuisance.
      (1)   If, after service of notice of the declaration of public health
nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and clean
up, the Authorized Representative is authorized to proceed in a prompt manner
to initiate the on-site assessment and clean up.
      (2)   If the city is unable to locate the property owner within ten days
of the declaration of public health nuisance, the city is authorized to proceed
in a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean up.
      (3)   The city may abate the nuisance by removing the hazardous structure
or building, or otherwise, according to O.R.S. Chapter 105.
      (4)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all costs plus an
additional 25% of the costs for administration. The city may recover costs by
civil action against the person or persons who own the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.49 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   General. The procedures provided by this subchapter is not exclusive
but is in addition to procedure provided by other ordinances. The Authorized
Representative or such other persons as the City Council may designate, may
proceed to abate a health or other nuisance that unmistakably exists and from
that there is imminent threat or danger to human life or property.
   (B)   Cost. The cost of such summary abatement shall be assessed against the
owner of the real property on that the nuisance exists shall be a lien against
the real property and may be enforced and collected by the same procedures set
forth in this subchapter for abatement.
   (C)   Abatement notice of imminent threat.
      (1)   Upon determination by the City Council that a nuisance resulting in
an imminent threat to the public health, safety, or property of the residents
of the city, as described in this or any other chapter of the city, exists, the
Authorized Representative, or his or her designated representative, shall
forthwith issue a citation to the property owner who, in the opinion of the
Authorized Representative, are determined to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   At the time of issuing a citation as set forth above, the
Authorized Representative shall contact the Mayor, and in his or her absence,
the Council President, and discuss the issuance of any citation issued by the
Authorized Agent, or the Council’s designated representative, under this
subchapter.
      (3)   The citation of nuisance resulting in an imminent threat to the
public health, safety, or property of the residents of the city shall contain:
         (a)   Reference to the section of this chapter being violated and a
description of the imminent threat;
         (b)   A description of the location upon that the violation occurred
that may be a street address, a street name between intersecting streets, an
approximate distance from a known point of reference, or otherwise, at or on
that such imminent threat to the public health, safety, or property of the
residents of the city exists;
         (c)   The month, day, year, and time of day of the citation;
         (d)   A direction to remove the imminent threat to the public health,
safety, or property of the residents of the city within two hours from the time
of issuance of the citation;
         (e)   A statement that unless such imminent threat to the public
health, safety, or property of the residents of the city is removed within two
hours after citation, the city will abate the nuisance and cost of abatement
shall be a lien against the property;
         (f)   A statement that the person or person in charge may protest the
citation and action by giving notice to the Authorized Representative within
two hours from the time of citation; and
         (g)   An error in the name or address of the property owner, as listed
with the County Assessor’s office and the City Utility Department, shall not
make the citation void, and in such a case, the citation shall be deemed
sufficient.
   (D)   Abatement by the owner of imminent threat.
      (1)   Within two hours after citation, as provided in §
90.45(B), the property owner, as listed with the County Assessor’s office and
the City Utility Department, shall remove and abate the nuisance or protest
that no nuisance exists.
      (2)   The property owner violating this chapter shall file with the
Authorized Representative a written statement that shall specify the basis for
contending that no nuisance exists.
      (3)   The statement shall be referred to the Authorized Representative
during the first regular business day after receipt by the Authorized
Representative, and the Authorized Representative shall advise the Mayor of
such statement.
      (4)   (a)   The Mayor shall refer the statement to the Council at a
special Council meeting to be posted and held within three regular business
days of filing of the statement with the Authorized Representative.
         (b)   At the time set for the consideration of the abatement, such
person or person in charge may appear and be heard by the Council, and the
Council shall, based upon the evidence presented, thereupon confirm whether a
nuisance resulting in an imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
property of the residents of the city in fact exists, and such confirmation
shall be entered in the official minutes of the Council.
      (5)   Upon Council confirmation that a nuisance resulting in an imminent
threat to the public health, safety, or property of the residents of the city
in fact exist, the person or person in charge violating this chapter shall,
within two hours after such Council confirmation or two hours after daylight of
the next succeeding day, that ever is later, shall remove or abate such
nuisance.
   (E)   Abatement by the city of imminent threat.
      (1)   If within the time fixed, as provided in this chapter, the property
owner has not abated the nuisance resulting in an imminent threat to the public
health, safety, or property of the residents of the city, the City Council
shall cause the imminent threat, to be abated.
      (2)   The Authorized Representative shall maintain an accurate record of
the expense incurred by the city in abating the imminent threat and shall
include therein an overhead charge of 15% of the total cost for administration.
      (3)   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, shall
thereupon be assessed to property of the person or person in charge as they may
own in the city, whether or not said property shall be in the location of the
violation of this chapter or not, in accordance with procedures set forth in §
90.48.
      (4)   If the person or person in charge does not own property in the
city, the city shall file a civil action or suit to enforce the collection of
the total cost, including the administrative overhead, as set forth in the
resolution described in this section, in the appropriate court within the
county.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes
a separate offense.
      (2)   The abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violating this
chapter but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate a nuisance.
   (B)   Violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $500 for a
non-continuing violation and a fine of not more than $1,000 for a continuing
offense. Upon the Municipal Court Judge’s judgment, “final judgment,” or the
issuance of a “default judgment” for failure to request a hearing regarding an
ordinance violation, additional fines may be assessed at a rate not to exceed
$1,000 per day for each day an ordinance violation continues. Documentation of
a continuing violation may consist of photographic and supplemental reports.
The Municipal Court Judge shall have discretion to revise upward or downward to
fines based on such factors as noncompliance, partial compliance, or acceptance
of a court ordered compliance agreement . A continuing offense and subsequent
proposed fine “notice of intent to assess a penalty and opportunity for a
hearing” may also result from failure to comply with a city ordinance following
the receipt of an official warning letter.
      (1)   The penalties imposed by this division (B) are not exclusive, and
are in addition to any other remedies available under city ordinance or state
statute.
      (2)   The abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the procedure set
forth in §
90.46 within ten days after being cited for violation of this chapter, as set
forth in §
90.45, shall not constitute a penalty for a violation of this chapter, but may,
based upon the determination by the court of jurisdiction, be in addition to
any penalty imposed for the violation of the chapter.
      (3)   The abatement of a nuisance resulting in an imminent threat to the
public health, safety, or property of the residents of the city in accordance
with the procedure set forth in §
90.01(C) within two hours after being cited for violation of this chapter, as
set forth in §
90.01(B), shall not constitute a penalty for a violation of this chapter, but
may, based upon the determination by the court of jurisdiction, be in addition
to any penalty imposed for the violation of the chapter.
      (4)   A “notice of intent to assess a penalty and opportunity for a
hearing” may be issued to violators of city ordinance in lieu of a citation.
Violators/respondents will be given 21 days in which to request a hearing. The
Municipal Court will hear all cases in a timely manner. A “final judgment” will
be issued detailing the court’s ruling and will be mailed to the violator/
respondent. Should the violator/respondent fail to request a hearing within 21
days, a “final judgment” will be issued as a “default final judgment.”
      (5)   All penalties/fines resulting from a “final judgment” or a “default
final judgment” will be due and payable to the city, together with interest at
9% per annum.
      (6)   (a)   In accordance with O.R.S. 221.359, whenever any person is
convicted in the Municipal Court of any offense defined and made punishable by
any city charter or ordinance, such person shall have the same right to appeal
to the circuit court as pertains to justice courts.
         (b)   The appeal shall be taken and perfected in the manner provided
by law for taking appeals from justice courts, except that in appeals taken
under O.R.S. 221.359, 221.360, 221.380, and 221.390.
         (c)   Any notice of appeal shall be served upon the City Attorney (all
appeals shall be filed within 30 days of the issuance of a “final judgment” or
“default final judgment”).
      (7)   If unpaid, civil penalties will be recorded by the City Recorder in
the municipal lien docket and filed with the County Clerk’s office as a lien
against property ten days after the statutory period.
      (8)   All liens shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements.
      (9)   An error in the name of the owner or person in charge of the
property shall not void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the
notice of the proposed assessment render the assessment void, but it shall
remain a valid lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
90.13 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
   (D)   (1)   A violation of any provision of §§
90.25 through
90.30 is a Class A infraction, punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500. Each and every day during that any provision of §§
90.25 through
90.30 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   All subsequent violations of this chapter within 30 days after any
conviction for a violation of §§
90.25 through
90.30 is a Class A infraction, punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $1,000. Each and every day during that any provision of §§
90.25 through
90.30 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   The City Council, acting in the name of the city, may maintain an
action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance
with, or restrain by injunction the violation of, any provision of §§
90.25 through
90.30.
(Ord. 285, passed 11-5-1962; Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed
7-2-2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 556-2019, passed 2-14-2019)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Animals afflicted with disease
   
91.02   Wildlife, exotic animals
   
91.03   Cruelty to animals
   
91.04   Animals running at large
Livestock, Beekeeping
   
91.15   Livestock, poultry, bees
   
91.16   Chickens, other fowl; rabbits
   
91.17   Animal-related structures
   
91.18   Farm deliveries
   
91.19   Control of livestock
   
91.20   Expansion of farm use prohibited
   
91.21   Livestock running at large
Animals as Nuisances
   
91.35   Removal of animal carcasses
   
91.36   Rats
   
91.37   Animals damaging property
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of nuisances, see §§
90.45 through
90.49
   Definitions, see §
90.02
   General provisions of nuisances, see §§
90.01 through
90.13
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ANIMALS AFFLICTED WITH DISEASE.
   No person may permit an animal or bird owned or controlled by the person to
be at large within the city if the animal or bird is afflicted with a
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.02 WILDLIFE, EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any wildlife that is located within the city
limits.
   (B)   No person shall keep any exotic animal that is located within the city
limits.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to
wildlife and exotic animals in a human environment under trained supervision
for that a permit has been issued for a carnival, circus, or special event.
   (D) The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to
wildlife and exotic animals in a human environment located in facilities of the
City School District #57.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by law, no person shall intentionally
or recklessly:
      (1)   Subject any animal under human custody or control to cruel
mistreatment;
      (2)   Subject any animal under his or her custody or control to cruel
neglect; and/or
      (3)   Kill, without legal privilege, any animal under the custody or
control of another.
   (B)   As used in this section, ANIMAL includes birds.
(Prior Code, § 130.100) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the city, except insofar as the dog is visibly restrained of freedom
as by a leash or similar device not exceeding eight feet and in the control of
the owner or another, upon public property, or by other means of restraint
visibly designed to restrain the dog upon the property of the owner or person
charged with its maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 130.101) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
91.99
LIVESTOCK, BEEKEEPING
§ 91.15 LIVESTOCK, POULTRY, BEES.
   (A)   No person shall maintain a pigsty, slaughterhouse, or tannery within
the city, nor shall any person permit livestock owned by him or her, or in his
or her possession, to run at large within the city.
   (B)   No person shall keep swine within the city, except that this
subchapter shall not apply to swine being transported for commercial purposes.
   (C)   No person shall keep a stand or hive of bees in the city at a location
within 150 feet of any street, alley, establishment, public building, private
dwelling, or barn; provided, that this provision shall not apply to the
dwelling, barn, or other buildings of the person owning such bees.
   (D)   No person may stake or picket a dog or livestock in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, or public places of the city, or stake or picket any such
animal so that it may go or graze upon the property of another, unless with the
consent of the owner or occupant of such property.
   (E)   No person may keep or maintain livestock within the city unless:
      (1)   Such animals are kept on lots having an area of one acre or more of
unencumbered land. Property is considered encumbered if the property contains a
residential home, apartment, or other human living quarters, or if existing or
future sanitary sewer (septic) or septic drain fields are located within the
property. The area allocated to livestock may contain a stable, barn, pen, or
other accessory buildings or structures for raising and keeping of animals.
Such structures shall set back at least 40 feet from the rear and side property
lines, and 60 feet from the front property line;
      (2)   The total number of such animals over six months of age to be kept
or maintained shall not exceed four per acre. The total number of horses, cows,
and/or sheep on one parcel shall not exceed ten total animals; and
      (3)   Persons occupying property that adjoins the area whereon said
animals are to be kept or maintained interpose no objection to the keeping or
maintenance of such animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.16 CHICKENS, OTHER FOWL; RABBITS.
   Chickens, and other fowl, and rabbits may be maintained on any property
containing at least one-quarter of an acre (10,890 square feet) as long as said
animals are not for resale and are maintained in pens or cages at all times. No
roosters are permitted at any time.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.17 ANIMAL-RELATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Animal-related structures must be maintained in a condition as to not
create a nuisance for neighbors.
   (B)   No excessive odors, noise, piles of animal waste, or other nuisance
that deprives a neighbor, or other person, of residential livability, peace,
and quiet are allowed. Proper sanitation shall be maintained in conformance
with applicable health standards for all farm animals.
   (C)   Proper sanitation includes:
      (1)   Not allowing animal waste to accumulate;
      (2)   Not allowing animal waste to contaminate groundwater or drainage
ways;
      (3)   Taking the necessary steps to ensure odors resulting from livestock
is not detectable beyond the property line; and
      (4)   Storing all livestock food in metal or other rodent-proof
containers.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.18 FARM DELIVERIES.
   No hay or feed deliveries are allowed before 6:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.19 CONTROL OF LIVESTOCK.
   All livestock must be fenced and under the control of the property owner or
lessee at all times. All fencing must be maintained in a condition that keeps
the livestock within the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.20 EXPANSION OF FARM USE PROHIBITED.
   Livestock on properties prior to the adoption of this subchapter may
continue, but may not be replaced nor expanded except in conformance with the
standards contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.21 LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in possession of any class of
livestock to permit the stock to run at large within the corporate limits of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.102) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
91.99
ANIMALS AS NUISANCES
§ 91.35 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   No person may permit any animal carcass owned by him or her, or under his or
her control, to remain upon the public streets or places, or to be exposed on
private property for a period of time longer than is reasonably necessary to
remove or dispose of such carcass.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.36 RATS.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying any property within the city shall allow
a condition to exist upon the property that condition attracts wild rats, gives
wild rats access to food, or creates shelter accessible to wild rats.
   (B)   Such prohibited conditions shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Keeping of any animal so that feces, refuse, food, or shelter
associated with the keeping of the animal affords food or shelter to wild rats;
      (2)   Allowing any accumulation of rubbish, trash, junk, or other
material that by reason of its decayed or unused condition affords shelter to
wild rats; and
      (3)   Maintain vacant (unsecured) or damaged structures, including out-
buildings, dwellings (including manufactured homes), and recreational vehicles
that may afford shelter to wild rats.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 91.37 ANIMALS DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or person in charge shall permit any dog or livestock owned
or controlled by him or her to cause damage or injury to gardens, flowerbeds,
and other property belonging to another person.
   (B)   No person or person in charge shall permit any dog or livestock to run
at large.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §§
91.01,
91.02,
91.15 through
91.20, and
91.35 through
91.37 shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $500 for a
non-continuing violation, and a fine of not more than $1,000 for a continuing
offense. Upon the Municipal Court Judge’s judgment “final judgment,” or the
issuance of a “default judgment” for failure to request a hearing regarding an
ordinance violation, additional fines may be assessed at a rate not to exceed
$1,000 per day for each day an ordinance violation continues. Documentation of
a continuing violation may consist of photographic and supplemental reports.
The Municipal Court Judge shall have discretion to revise upward or downward to
fines based on such factors as noncompliance, partial compliance, or acceptance
of a court ordered compliance agreement . A continuing offense and subsequent
proposed fine “notice of intent to assess a penalty and opportunity for a
hearing” may also result from failure to comply with a city ordinance following
the receipt of an official warning letter.
      (1)   The penalties imposed by this division (A) are not exclusive, and
are in addition to any other remedies available under city ordinance or state
statute.
      (2)   The abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the procedure set
forth in §
90.46 within ten days after being cited for violation of this chapter, as set
forth in §
90.45, shall not constitute a penalty for a violation of this chapter, but may,
based upon the determination by the court of jurisdiction, be in addition to
any penalty imposed for the violation of the chapter.
      (3)   The abatement of a nuisance resulting in an imminent threat to the
public health, safety, or property of the residents of the city in accordance
with the procedure set forth in §
90.01(C) within two hours after being cited for violation of this chapter, as
set forth in §
90.01(B) shall not constitute a penalty for a violation of this chapter, but
may, based upon the determination by the court of jurisdiction, be in addition
to any penalty imposed for the violation of the chapter.
      (4)   A “notice of intent to assess a penalty and opportunity for a
hearing” may be issued to violators of city ordinance in lieu of a citation.
Violators/respondents will be given 21 days in which to request a hearing. The
Municipal Court will hear all cases in a timely manner. A “final judgment” will
be issued detailing the court’s ruling and will be mailed to the violator/
respondent. Should the violator/respondent fail to request a hearing within 21
days, a “final judgment” will be issued as a “default final judgment.”
      (5)   All penalties/fines resulting from a final judgment or a “default
final judgment” will be due and payable to the city, together with interest at
9% per annum.
      (6)   (a)   In accordance with O.R.S. 221.359 whenever any person is
convicted in the municipal court of any offense defined and made punishable by
any city charter or ordinance, such person shall have the same right to appeal
to the circuit court as pertains to justice courts.
         (b)   The appeal shall be taken and perfected in the manner provided
by law for taking appeals from justice courts, except that in appeals taken
under O.R.S. 221.359, 221.360, 221.380, and 221.390.
         (c)   Any notice of appeal shall be served upon the City Attorney (all
appeals shall be filed within 30 days of the issuance of a “final judgment” or
“default final judgment”).
      (7)   If unpaid, civil penalties will be recorded by the City Recorder in
the municipal lien docket and filed with the County Clerk’s office as a lien
against property ten days after the statutory period.
      (8)   All liens shall be enforced in the same manner as liens for street
improvements.
      (9)   An error in the name of the owner or person in charge of the
property shall not void the assessment, nor will a failure to receive the
notice of the proposed assessment render the assessment void, but it shall
remain a valid lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Generally
§ 92.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city cemeteries policy, dated September 25, 2000, and attached as
Exhibit B to the ordinance codified in this section, is adopted.
   (B)   All funds received from the sale of plots will be distributed as
follows:
      (1)   Fifty percent for the operations and maintenance of city
cemeteries; and
      (2)   Fifty percent for future land acquisition for city cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 488, passed 10-9-2000)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   COMMUNICATION FACILITIES; FRANCHISE
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Applications
   
110.04   License issuance
   
110.05   License restrictions
   
110.06   No license issued for prohibited conduct
   
110.07   Revocation
   
110.08   Refusal of license; right to appeal
   
110.09   Prompt application required
   
110.10   Business subject to franchise agreement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, or business, either temporary
or permanent, carried on for profit.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, or corporation.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. A business which is expected to be conducted
continuously for a period of not more than 90 days and a total of not more than
180 days within a fiscal year, with a break of at least 30 days in between
periods of operation. An application for a TEMPORARY BUSINESS license shall be
required for each period of operation, but shall not require Council approval
for the first two periods of operation within a fiscal year; each additional
TEMPORARY BUSINESS license within a fiscal year shall be reviewed and approved
by Council prior to a license being issued. Permanent business licenses shall
be reviewed and approved by Council prior to a license being issued to a
business only for the first time.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972; Ord. 502, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in or carry on any business as hereinafter set forth,
unless he or she shall have applied for and been issued a license and paid the
fee as herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for business licenses shall be made with the City Recorder/
Administrator on forms prescribed for the purpose by the City Recorder/
Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount as
set by resolution of the Council, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972; Ord. 502, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 110.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   All licenses shall be issued on an annual basis and shall be due July 1 of
each year.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.05 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   No business license shall be assignable by the licensee. No licensee shall,
except with permission of the City Council, conduct any business at any place
other than as designated in the license. All licenses shall be prominently
displayed upon the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.06 NO LICENSE ISSUED FOR PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No license shall be issued to any business, the continuance or conduct of
which would be in violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION.
   Licenses may be revoked by the City Council upon failure of the licensee to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance
providing for the regulation of businesses herein required to be licensed, or
for fraud or misrepresentations made in obtaining a license. Upon any such
revocation, any prepaid license fee shall be forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.08 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   If the City Recorder/Administrator shall refuse to issue any license upon
application, the applicant shall have a right of appeal to the City Council,
and the Council shall determine the matter within 60 days of the notice of the
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.09 PROMPT APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Any person who shall not make prompt application for a license required by
this chapter shall pay a penalty as follows.
   (A)   If the application shall be more than ten days but less than 30 days
delinquent, the penalty shall be 25% of the license fee.
   (B)   If the application shall be more than 30 days but less than 60 days
delinquent, the penalty shall be 50% of the license fee.
   (C)   If the application shall be more than 60 days but less than 90 days
delinquent, the penalty shall be 100% of the license fee.
   (D)   If the applicant shall be more than 90 days delinquent, the City
Recorder/Administrator shall refer the application to the City Council for
final decision.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.10 BUSINESS SUBJECT TO FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   No business conducted within the city, subject to the terms of a franchise
ordinance and agreement, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
110.02,
110.03, or
110.05 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not to exceed $500. After
the ninetieth day of delinquency, as set forth in §
110.09, each separate day shall constitute an offense under §
110.02.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 347, passed 1-3-1972)
CHAPTER 111: COMMUNICATION FACILITIES; FRANCHISE
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Jurisdiction; management
   
111.03   Regulatory fees; compensation not a tax
   
111.04   Definitions
   
111.05   Governing law
   
111.06   Written agreement
   
111.07   Non-exclusive grant
Registration
   
111.20   Scope
   
111.21   Registration required
   
111.22   Registration fee
   
111.23   Exemptions from registration
Communications Franchise Agreements Required
   
111.35   Registration, application, agreement
   
111.36   Application
   
111.37   Determination
   
111.38   Scope of agreement
   
111.39   Term of grant
   
111.40   Franchise territory
   
111.41   Fees
   
111.42   New facilities; services
   
111.43   Term renewals
   
111.44   Renewal determinations
   
111.45   Obligation to cure
   
111.46   Assignment, transfer of franchise
   
111.47   Termination of franchise
   
111.48   Notice, duty to cure
   
111.49   Public hearing
   
111.50   Standards for termination; lesser sanction
   
111.51   Other city costs
   
111.52   Damage to facilities
   
111.53   Duty to provide information
   
111.54   Use of provider’s services, facilities
   
111.55   Compensation for city property
   
111.56   Cable franchise
   
111.57   Leased capacity
   
111.58   Insurance
   
111.59   General indemnification
   
111.60   Performance surety
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Regulations on the construction of communication facilities, location of
facilities, see §§
153.01 through
153.15, and
153.30 through
153.34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the “Right-of-Way Management
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.02 JURISDICTION; MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management
authority over all city public rights-of-way pursuant to the City Charter and
state law. The city’s purpose for exerting its management authority over the
public rights-of-way is to protect and efficiently manage the public’s
resources and to ensure fair and non-discriminatory access to the public right-
of-way.
   (B)   The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory management over
each public right-of-way, whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal
interest in the right-of-way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory
management of each right-of-way, whether the legal interest in the right-of-way
was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation,
annexation, foreclosure, or other means.
   (C)   No person may occupy or encroach on a public right-of-way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights-of-way through
franchise agreements and construction permits.
   (D)   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory management of a public
right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of the right-of-way, and
does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right-of-way.
   (E)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
communications facilities located within the public rights-of-way as the city
may determine to be necessary, appropriate, or useful in response to a public
health or safety emergency.
   (F)   The city desires the ready availability of communication services for
all its residential and commercial citizens by providing infrastructure and
amenities that make the city a better place to do business. The city is
committed to authorizing the private access and use of the public rights-of-way
for such services so long as such use is consistent with, and does not unduly
burden or interfere with, the principal purpose of the public ways, which is to
facilitate the free transit of persons and goods in commerce.
   (G)   The city holds the health, safety, quality of life, and opportunities
to prosper, as well as such physical assets such as the public right-of-way, in
trust for all of its citizens, and has a fiduciary responsibility to assure
that any use of city resources, especially its public ways, benefits all of the
citizens and, where it is deemed appropriate, allows for the recovery of a fair
and reasonable compensation from private entities using public resources.
   (H)   If communications providers make “percentage of gross revenue”
payments, which include only a portion of the communications services they
provide within the city, then they are not compensating the city fairly for
their private use and enjoyment of public assets and resources. Such
communications providers may derive an unfair advantage, and their failure to
compensate may place similarly-situated communications providers in an inferior
and unfair competitive position. Unfair competition does not foster the city’s
desired technological and business growth. Among the purposes of this chapter
is not only to ensure that the public is properly compensated for the private
use and enjoyment of city assets and resources, but also to ensure that all
similarly-situated communications providers are treated similarly and fairly in
order to foster technological growth and innovation.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.03 REGULATORY FEES; COMPENSATION NOT A TAX.
   (A)   The fees and costs addressed in this chapter, and any compensation
charged and paid for regarding the use of the public rights-of-way addressed in
this chapter, are separate from and in addition to any and all other federal,
state, local, and city fees, taxes, or charges as may be levied, imposed, or
due from a communications provider, its customers or subscribers, or on account
of the lease, sale, delivery, or transmission of communications services.
   (B)   The city has determined that any fee provided for by this chapter is
not subject to the property tax limitations of Article XI, §§ 11 and 11b of the
State Constitution. These fees are not imposed on property or property owners.
   (C)   The fees and costs provided for in this chapter are subject to
applicable federal and state laws.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq.
   CABLE SERVICE. To be interpreted consistent with federal law, and means the
one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other programming
service and subscriber interaction, if any, required for the selection or use
of such video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Any provider of cable service.
   CITY. The City of Falls City, an Oregon municipal corporation, and
individuals authorized to act on the city’s behalf.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected governing body of the city.
   CITY PROPERTY. All real property owned by the city and all property held in
a proprietary capacity by the city, but does not include PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
and UTILITY EASEMENTS, as defined herein.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or FACILITIES. All plant, equipment, and systems,
other than customer premises equipment, used by any communications provider.
For the purposes of this chapter, facilities used by cable service providers to
provide cable service are COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   COMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER(S) or PROVIDER(S). Any provider of communications
services and includes, but is not limited to every person who directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates, or manages communications facilities
within the city, and cable service providers.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE(S) or SERVICE(S). Any service provided for the
purpose of transmission of information including, but not limited to, voice,
video, or data, without regard to the transmission protocol employed, whether
or not the transmission medium is owned by the provider itself. COMMUNICATIONS
SERVICES includes all forms of telephone services and voice, video, data, or
information transport, and expressly includes cable service offered by a cable
service provider, but does not include:
      (1)   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM SERVICE, as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 76;
      (2)   Private communications system services provided without using the
public rights-of-way;
      (3)   Over-the-air radio or television broadcasting to the public-at-
large from facilities licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, or any
successor thereto; and
      (4)   Direct-to-home satellite service within the meaning of § 602 of the
Telecommunications Act, being Pub. Law No. 104-104, Title VI, § 602, February
8, 1996, 110 Stat. 144, 47 U.S.C. § 152, note.
   CONDUIT. Any structure, or portion thereof, containing one or more ducts,
conduits, manholes, bolts, cables, fiber, or other infrastructure used by or
for any telegraph, telephone, electrical utility, conductors, or cable service.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any activity in the public rights-of-way resulting in physical
change thereto, including excavation or placement of structures, but excluding
routine maintenance or repair of existing facilities.
   CONTROL. Actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
   DAYS. Calendar days, unless otherwise specified.
   DUCT. A single enclosed raceway for conductors or cable.
   EMERGENCY. The meaning provided for in O.R.S. 401.025.
   FACILITIES. See COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES, as defined herein.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION. The Federal Administrative Agency, or its
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee communications or cable
service providers on a national level.
   FRANCHISE or FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a
communications provider which grants a privilege to the communications provider
to use the public right-of-way within the city for a limited, dedicated
purpose, and in return for specific compensation.
   FRANCHISEE. A communications provider who is a non-breaching party to an
unexpired franchise agreement.
   OPUC. The statutorily created state agency in the state responsible for
licensing and regulation of certain communications providers as set forth in
state law, or its lawful successor.
   OVERHEAD FACILITIES. Utility poles, utility facilities, and communications
facilities above the surface of the ground, including the underground supports
and foundations for such facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, joint stock
company, or association, firm, partnership, or limited liability company.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A system, including the construction,
maintenance, or operation of the system, for the provision of a service, or any
portion of a service, which is owned or operated exclusively by a person for
his or her own use and not for resale, directly or indirectly. PRIVATE
COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK includes services provided by the state pursuant to
O.R.S. 190.240 and 283.140.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. Includes, but are not limited to, city
streets, roads, highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public
easements, and other public ways generally open to travel, including the
subsurface under, and air space over, these ways; but does not include parks,
parkland or other city property not generally open to the public for travel.
This definition applies only to the extent of the city’s right, title,
interest, or authority to grant a franchise to occupy and use such areas for
communications facilities. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY shall also
include UTILITY EASEMENTS, as defined below.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USE FEE. The fee imposed upon a communications provider for its
occupation of or use of the city’s public right-of-way without an unexpired
franchise agreement which authorizes all communications services provided and
imposes a franchise fee on such services.
   STATE. The State of Oregon.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Communications Policy Act of 1934, as amended by
subsequent enactments, including the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C.
§§ 151 et seq.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. Utility and communications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, but does not include underground foundations or
supports for overhead facilities.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. Any easement granted to or owned by the city and acquired,
established, dedicated, or devoted for public utility purposes. UTILITY
EASEMENT does not include any easement dedicated solely for city use or
facilities, or any easement where the proposed use is inconsistent with the
terms and conditions of the easement granted to or owned by the city.
   UTILITY FACILITIES. The plant, equipment, and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cable, wires, plant, and
equipment located under, on, or above the surface of the ground within the
public right-of-way of the city and used, or to be used, for the purpose of
providing utilities, cable, or communications service.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.05 GOVERNING LAW.
   Any franchise agreement granted under this chapter is subject to the
provisions of the Constitutions and laws of the United States and the state,
and the ordinances and Charter of the city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.06 WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
   No franchise agreement shall be granted hereunder except by a writing duly
executed by the franchisee and the city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.07 NON-EXCLUSIVE GRANT.
   No franchise agreement granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive
right, privilege, license, or franchise to occupy or use the public rights-of-
way for delivery of communications service, or any other purposes.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
REGISTRATION
§ 111.20 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to all communications providers who use or occupy
the public rights-of-way whether or not they provide communications services to
persons within the city. The purpose of registration is:
   (A)   To assure that all communications providers who have facilities within
the city rights-of-way, and/or who provide communications services within the
city using the public right-of-way, comply with the ordinances, rules, and
regulations of the city;
   (B)   To provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
communications providers who offer communications service within the city, or
who owns or operates a communications facilities within the city; and
   (C)   To assist the city in the enforcement of this chapter, management and
caretaking of the public right-of-way, and the collection of any city franchise
fees or right-of-way use fees or charges.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.21 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless excepted in division (B) below, all communication providers who
own, operate, or use facilities within the city’s public right-of-way, and all
communication providers who provide communication services to any customer
within the city, shall register with the city, on a form provided by the city,
within 45 days of the effective date of this chapter. Any prospective
communications providers who want to install or use communications facilities
within the city’s public right-of-way or want to provide communications
services within the city after the effective date of this chapter shall
register with the city, on a form provided by the city, prior to installing
facilities or providing services.
   (B)   After registering with the city pursuant to division (A) above, the
communication provider shall, by December 31 of each year, file with the city a
new annual registration form if it intends to maintain facilities or provide
services at any time in the following calendar year.
      (1)   Communications providers who file an initial registration pursuant
to division (A) above on or after September 30 shall not be required to file an
annual registration until December 31 of the following year.
      (2)   Communications providers who are a non-breaching party to an
unexpired franchise agreement which obligates the provider to pay a franchise
fee on all the services it provides within the city are not required to file an
annual registration during the term of the franchise agreement.
   (C)   (1)   In lieu of filing the city’s registration form, a communications
provider may submit to the city a copy of the its application and approved
license from either:
         (a)   The State Public Utility Commission (PUC); or
         (b)   The Federal Communications Commission.
      (2)   To the extent not included in the application and license materials
submitted pursuant to this division (C), registrants also shall provide the
following information:
         (a)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including the
name, address, and telephone number of the duly authorized officer, agent, or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration information;
         (b)   The name, address, and telephone number for the duly authorized
officer, agent, or employee to be contacted in case of an emergency; and
         (c)   A description of the registrant’s existing or proposed
facilities within the city, a description of the facilities that the registrant
intends to construct, and a description of the communications service that the
registrant intends to offer or provide to persons, firms, businesses, or
institutions within the city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.22 REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   Unless excepted in division (B) below, each registration form shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable registration fee in an amount to be determined
by resolution of the City Council. The registration fee required by this
section shall be subject to all applicable limitations imposed by federal or
state law.
   (B)   Communications providers who are a non-breaching party to an unexpired
franchise agreement, which obligates the provider to pay a franchise fee on all
the services it provides within the city, shall not be required to pay a
registration fee.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.23 EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION.
   The following communications providers and facilities are exempted from
registration:
   (A)   Communications facilities owned and operated exclusively by the state
or a political subdivision of this state, for their own use; and
   (B)   A private communications network, provided in a manner that does not
occupy any public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 111.35 REGISTRATION, APPLICATION, AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Rights-of-way. Prior to occupying city public rights-of-way, all
communications providers shall register with the city pursuant to §
111.21, shall file a franchise application with the city pursuant to §
111.36 below, and shall enter into a franchise agreement with the city.
   (B)   Multiple franchises not required. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this chapter, a communications provider who is a non-breaching
party to an unexpired franchise agreement for a service it provides within the
city shall not be required to enter into a multiple or different franchise
agreements for its provision of a different service within the city as long as
the provider has registered all its services with the city pursuant to §
111.21. Further, nothing in this section waives a provider’s duty to pay
franchise fees or the right-of-way use fee as required under §
111.41.
   (C)   Any person whose communications facilities occupy the public right-of-
way, with or without a valid franchise agreement from the city, must comply
with all provisions of this chapter, specifically including payment of any
applicable right-of-way fees pursuant to §
111.41.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.36 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person who desires a franchise agreement with the city must first
file a franchise application with the City Manager.
   (B)   The purpose of a franchise application is to provide the city with
necessary information regarding the communications provider’s services and
public right-of-way needs.
   (C)   The franchise application shall include, at minimum, the following
information:
      (1)   The identity of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of the services to be offered or provided by the
applicant over its facilities, including an indication of whether the applicant
will provide solely cable service;
      (3)   Engineering plans, specifications, and a network map in a form
customarily used by the applicant of the facilities located or to be located
within the public rights-of-way in the city, including the location and route
requested for the applicant’s proposed facilities;
      (4)   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
preliminary construction schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area;
      (5)   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities, and
to offer or provide the communications service proposed; and
      (6)   An accurate map showing the location of any existing facilities in
the city that the applicant intends to use or lease.
   (D)   Any communications provider occupying the public rights-of-way without
a franchise agreement as of the effective date of this chapter shall file a
franchise application pursuant to this section within 45 days of the effective
date of this chapter.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.37 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The city shall issue a written preliminary determination granting or
denying the franchise application in whole or in part.
   (B)   If the franchise application is denied, the written determination
shall include the reasons for denial.
   (C)   The city shall evaluate the franchise application based upon: the
continuing capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate the prospective
franchisee’s proposed facilities; the prospective franchisee’s legal,
technical, and financial ability to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
and the prospective franchisee’s compliance with applicable federal, state, and
local laws, rules, contractual obligations, and regulations.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.38 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT.
   (A)   No franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall convey any right,
title, or interest in the public rights-of-way, but shall be a non-exclusive
grant to use and occupy the public rights-of-way for the limited purposes,
terms, and conditions provided in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   The rights granted by any franchise agreement are limited to the right
to use the public rights-of-way for the provision of COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES,
as defined in §
111.04. Nothing in the franchise shall be construed to prevent the city from
grading, paving, repairing, and/or altering any public rights-of-way,
constructing, laying down, repairing, relocating, or removing city
infrastructure or establishing any other public work, utility, or improvement
of any kind, including repairs, replacement, or removal of any city
infrastructure. If a franchisee’s facilities interfere with the construction,
repair, replacement, alteration, or removal of any public rights-of-way, public
work, city utility, city improvement, or city infrastructure, except those used
to provide competing communications services, such facilities shall be removed
or relocated as provided in §§
153.33 and
153.34, in a manner acceptable to the city and consistent with industry
standard engineering and safety codes.
   (C)   A franchise agreement granted hereunder shall at all times comply with
the requirements of this chapter, unless this chapter expressly authorizes
different terms. In this chapter, such authorization is indicated by the
introductory phrase, “Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired Franchise
Agreement...”
   (D)   To the extent that this chapter can be implemented consistently with
an unexpired franchise agreement adopted prior to this chapter, the terms of
this chapter shall prevail.
   (E)   To the extent that this chapter conflicts with, and cannot be
implemented consistently, an unexpired franchise agreement adopted prior to
this chapter, the terms of the unexpired franchise agreement shall prevail.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.39 TERM OF GRANT.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, a franchise
granted hereunder shall be in effect for an initial term of five years, and may
be renewed subject to §§
111.42 and
111.43.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.40 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, a
communications franchise granted hereunder shall be limited to a specific
geographic area of the city to be served by the franchisee and the public
rights-of-way necessary to serve such areas, and may include the entire city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.41 FEES.
   (A)   A franchise agreement granted hereunder shall require the franchisee
to pay a franchise fee in an amount determined by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Every communications provider occupying or using the public rights-of-
way without an unexpired franchise agreement which imposes a franchise fee,
whether or not the provider owns the facilities used to provide its services,
shall pay a right-of-way use fee in the amount of the franchise fee determined
by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall provide a right-of-way use fee credit to any
communications providers who, pursuant to a franchise agreement, pays to the
city franchise fees due and owing. The amount of the right-of-way use fee
credit shall be equal to the franchise fees paid to the city during that right-
of-way use fee billing period.
      (2)   (a)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may, at his or her
sole discretion and through the adoption of written rules grant a full or
partial right-of-way use fee annual waiver for a communications provider who
can demonstrate that it has received, earned, or derived (or expects to
receive, earn, or derive) little or no gross revenues from its use or
occupation of the right-of-way during that year.
         (b)   Such written rule shall establish the maximum threshold gross
revenue amounts necessary for such waiver to apply.
   (D)   If the communications provider’s sole use of the public right-of-way,
is to place wireless facilities above the ground on existing poles or similar
structures in the public right-of-way and the operator does not install or use
lines, wires, or cables, such communications provider is not required to pay a
right-of-way use fee or a franchise fee under this section, as long as it
complies with all other applicable requirements of this chapter and all other
applicable city codes, regulations, and rules. Nothing in this division (D)
limits the city’s authority to charge reasonable rental or pole attachment
rates for the private use of city property.
   (E)   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
franchise fees required by this section shall be paid within 30 days after the
end of each calendar quarter. Each payment shall be accompanied by an
accounting of gross revenues and a calculation of the amount payable.
   (F)   Unless otherwise specified in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
franchisee shall pay interest at the rate of 9% per year for any payment made
after the due date.
   (G)   The franchise fee or right-of-way use fee required in this section
remain subject to any applicable limitations imposed by federal or state
statutes.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.42 NEW FACILITIES; SERVICES.
   (A)   A new registration shall be required of any franchisee who desires to
extend or locate its facilities within the public rights-of-way if such
facilities are not previously included in an unexpired franchise agreement with
the city.
   (B)   A new registration shall be required of any franchisee who desires to
provide an additional communication service which was not previously included
in an unexpired franchise agreement with the city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.43 TERM RENEWALS.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement and unless
prohibited understate or federal law, a franchise, if renewed, shall be renewed
in the following manner.
   (A)   Franchisees who desire to renew an unexpired franchise under this
chapter shall, not less than 180 days before expiration of the current
franchise agreement, file a request for renewal with the city.
   (B)   The renewal shall include the following information:
      (1)   The information required pursuant to §
111.36;
      (2)   Any additional information required pursuant to the existing
franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee; and
      (3)   Any desired amendments to the existing franchise agreement,
including the desired renewal term; provided, that such amendments do not
violate or conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.44 RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Within 90 days after receiving a complete renewal request under §
111.43, the city shall issue a written determination granting or denying the
renewal request in whole or in part. Such renewal shall be for a renewal term
or terms to be mutually decided on by the parties. If the renewal request is
denied, the written determination shall provide the reasons for non-renewal.
   (B)   The city shall evaluate the renewal based upon the capacity of the
rights-of-way to accommodate the franchisee’s facilities, the franchisee’s
legal, technical, and financial ability to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, and the franchisee’s compliance with any applicable federal, state,
and local laws, contractual obligations, rules, or regulations.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.45 OBLIGATION TO CURE.
   The city shall not renew a franchise agreement unless the franchisee has
cured any violations or defaults in the franchisee’s performance of the
franchise agreement, this chapter, or has provided the city with a city-
approved plan detailing the corrective action to be taken.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.46 ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A franchise granted under this chapter may not be directly or
indirectly transferred, assigned, or disposed of by sale, lease, merger,
consolidation, or by other act of the franchisee, by operation of law or
otherwise, without the prior written consent of the city, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
   (B)   City consent conditions shall include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   The franchisee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the
franchise shall agree in writing to assume and abide by all of the provisions
of the franchise agreement;
      (2)   No transfer shall be approved unless the city determines the
assignee or transferee has the legal, technical, and financial ability to
comply with the provisions of this chapter and applicable federal, state, and
local laws, rules, or regulations;
      (3)   The franchisee shall reimburse the city for all direct and indirect
fees, costs, and expenses reasonably incurred by the city in considering a
request to transfer or assign a franchise, unless the city is expressly
prohibited from requesting such reimbursement by state or federal statutes; and
      (4)   Any transfer or assignment of a franchise, system, or integral part
of a system without prior city approval or without a valid franchise agreement
shall be void and is cause for revocation of the franchise.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.47 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchise agreement to use or occupy public rights-of-way may be
terminated by the city for the following reasons:
   (A)   Construction or operation in the city or in the public rights-of-way
without a construction permit;
   (B)   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location or in violation
of any required city approvals or permits;
   (C)   Failure to comply with §
111.46 herein with respect to sale, transfer, or assignment of a system or
franchise;
   (D)   Misrepresentation by or on behalf of a franchisee to the city in any
registration request, or franchise application or franchise renewal request;
   (E)   Unauthorized abandonment of facilities in the public rights-of-way;
   (F)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this chapter;
   (G)   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees, or costs when and as due the
city under this chapter or under an applicable franchise agreement;
   (H)   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the franchisee;
   (I)   Violation of material provisions of this chapter; and
   (J)   Violation of the material terms of a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.48 NOTICE, DUTY TO CURE.
   (A)   In the event that the city believes that grounds exist for termination
of a franchise agreement, the city shall give the franchisee written notice of
the alleged violation, and shall provide a short and concise statement of the
nature and general facts of the violation.
   (B)   The city shall provide the franchisee a reasonable period of time, not
exceeding 30 days, to furnish evidence that:
      (1)   Corrective action has been or is being expeditiously pursued to
remedy the violation;
      (2)   Rebuts the alleged violation; and/or
      (3)   Explains why it would be in the public interest to impose a penalty
or sanction less than termination.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.49 PUBLIC HEARING.
   In the event that a franchisee fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the city as provided in §
111.48, the City Manager shall refer the alleged violation to the City Council.
The City Council shall provide the franchisee with notice and a reasonable
opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.50 STANDARDS FOR TERMINATION; LESSER SANCTION.
   (A)   If persuaded that the franchisee has violated a material provision of
this chapter or of a franchise agreement, or has committed the violations
listed in §
111.47, the City Council may terminate the franchise or may establish some
lesser sanction and cure, including, but not limited to, the assessment of
penalties pursuant to §
111.99.
   (B)   In doing so, the City Council shall consider the nature,
circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation as reflected by one or more
of the following factors, whether:
      (1)   The violation was egregious;
      (2)   Substantial harm resulted;
      (3)   The violation was intentional or repeated;
      (4)   There is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements;
      (5)   There is a history of overall compliance; and
      (6)   The violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted, or cured.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.51 OTHER CITY COSTS.
   All franchisees or communications providers shall, within 30 days after
city’s written demand therefor, reimburse the city for all reasonable direct
and indirect costs and expenses incurred by the city in connection with any
modification, amendment, renewal, or transfer of the franchise or any franchise
agreement, unless the city is expressly prohibited from requesting such
reimbursement by federal or state statute.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.52 DAMAGE TO FACILITIES.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, the city
shall not be liable for any damage or injury to or loss of any facility,
property, or person as a result of or in connection with any city public works,
public improvements, construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any
kind in the public rights-of-way by or on behalf of the city, or for any
consequential losses resulting directly or indirectly therefrom unless such
damage or injury is directly caused by the city’s negligent, intentional, or
malicious acts. City liability hereunder shall at all times be limited by the
state’s statutory and constitutional tort claim limits.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.53 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Except in emergencies, within 60 days of the city’s written request, a
communications provider shall provide the city with the following:
      (1)   Information sufficient to demonstrate that the communications
provider has complied with all requirements of this chapter and any applicable
franchise agreement, including, but not limited to, the franchise fee or right-
of-way use fee payments required by §
111.41; and
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, all
books, records, maps, and other documents maintained by the communications
provider with respect to its facilities within the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, if the
city’s audit or review of the communications provider’s books, records, and
other documents or information demonstrates that the communications provider
has underpaid the applicable franchise fee or the right-of-way use fee by 3% or
more in any one fiscal year, the communications provider shall reimburse the
city for the cost of the audit or review, in addition to correcting the
underpayment and paying any interest or penalties owed. Any underpayment,
including any interest or audit cost reimbursement, shall be paid within 30
days of the city’s notice to the communications provider of such underpayment,
unless other payment timelines are otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise
agreement.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.54 USE OF PROVIDER’S SERVICES, FACILITIES.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, if the city
contracts for the use of a communications provider’s facilities, services,
installation, or maintenance, the communications provider shall offer the city
its most favorable current rate charged to similar state users for similar
services. With the city’s written permission, the communications provider may
deduct the agreed-upon applicable city charges for such city use of the
provider’s facilities or services and any franchise fees or right-of-way use
fees due and owing. The terms and conditions of the city’s use of such services
or facilities shall be specified in a written franchise agreement or other
agreement between the city and the communications provider.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.55 COMPENSATION FOR CITY PROPERTY.
   If any right is granted by lease, franchise agreement, or other manner, to
use and occupy city property (not the right-of-way) for the installation of
facilities or other infrastructure, the compensation to be paid for such right
and use shall be fixed by the city through a separate agreement with the
communications provider.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.56 CABLE FRANCHISE.
   Cable service providers shall be subject to this chapter to the extent not
inconsistent with the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C.
§§ 521 et seq. (the “Cable Act”). The city and the cable provider shall enter
into a cable franchise agreement with the city, subject to all applicable
provisions of state and federal law, including the Cable Act.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.57 LEASED CAPACITY.
   A communications provider may, without prior city approval, offer or provide
capacity or bandwidth to its customers by lease, use agreements, or otherwise,
provided, that the communications provider shall notify the city of the
following: that such lease or use agreement has been granted, and the type or
nature of the use or lease granted.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.58 INSURANCE.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, each
communications provider shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain
liability insurance policies in amounts and types satisfactory to the city
which ensure both the communications provider and the city, and its elected and
appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional insured.
Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, the liability
insurance policies required by this section shall be maintained by the
communications provider throughout the term of the franchise agreement, and any
such other period of time during which the communications provider is operating
or has facilities within the public rights-of-way. Unless otherwise provided in
an unexpired franchise agreement, each communications provider shall maintain
continuous uninterrupted coverage, and shall provide such policies upon the
city’s request. As an alternative to the insurance requirements contained
herein, a communications provider may provide evidence of self-insurance,
subject to written acceptance by the city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.59 GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   Each franchise agreement shall include, unless prohibited by law, the
franchisee’s express promise to defend, indemnify, and hold the city and its
officers, employees, agents, and representatives harmless from and against any
and all damages, losses, and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs of suit or defense, arising out of, relating to, resulting from, or
alleged to arise out of, relate to, or result from the negligent, careless, or
wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act, or misconduct of the franchisee or
its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors, or subcontractors in
the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of its facilities,
or related to the communication provider’s provision of services over the
facilities, whether or not such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed, or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.60 PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, before a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as necessary
thereafter, the communications provider shall provide a performance bond, in
form and substance acceptable to the city, as security for the full and
complete performance of a franchise agreement granted under this chapter,
including any costs, expenses, damages, or loss the city pays or incurs because
of any failure attributable to the franchisee to comply with the City Code,
ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits. This obligation is in addition to
the performance surety required by §
153.15 for construction of facilities.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or a valid
franchise agreement shall be subject to penalties pursuant to the City
Municipal Code. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed each
day on which a violation occurs.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Adoption of the State Criminal Code
   
130.002   Soliciting to violate this chapter
   
130.003   Attempt to commit offense
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.015   Assault
   
130.016   Menacing
   
130.017   Reckless endangerment
   
130.018   Disorderly conduct
   
130.019   Public intoxication; drinking
   
130.020   Loitering
   
130.021   Abuse of venerated objects
Weapons and Fireworks
   
130.035   Concealed weapons
   
130.036   Discharge of weapons
   
130.037   Fireworks
Offenses Related to Property
   
130.050   Trespass
   
130.051   Violating privacy of another
   
130.052   Mischief
   
130.053   Public park hours
   
130.054   Removal, destruction of trees, shrubs
   
130.055   Use of fire equipment
Minors
   
130.070   Children confined in vehicles
   
130.071   Curfew
Obstructing Governmental Administration
   
130.085   Unsworn falsification
   
130.086   Obstructing governmental administration; generally
   
130.087   Tampering with public records
   
130.088   Resisting, refusing to aid officer
   
130.089   Escape
   
130.090   Police, fire communications
 
   
130.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, livestock running at large, see §§
91.04 and
91.21
   Cruelty to animals, see §
91.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 ADOPTION OF THE STATE CRIMINAL CODE.
   A violation of a provision in O.R.S. Chapters 161 through 169 inclusive, as
now constituted, shall be an offense against the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.001) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975; Ord. 97-467, passed 10-6-
1997; Ord. 99-475, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 503, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 130.002 SOLICITING TO VIOLATE THIS CHAPTER.
   No person shall solicit, employ, or engage another, or confederate with
another, to violate a provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.002) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.003 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   A person who shall attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in this
chapter or any other ordinance of the city, but who for any reason is prevented
from consummating the act, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.003) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.015 ASSAULT.
   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly cause physical
injury to another.
(Prior Code, § 130.015) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.016 MENACING.
   No person shall, by word or conduct, intentionally attempt to place another
person in fear of imminent serious physical injury.
(Prior Code, § 130.016) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.017 RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT.
   No person shall recklessly engage in conduct which creates a substantial
risk of serious physical injury to another person.
(Prior Code, § 130.017) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.018 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall, with intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm, or by recklessly creating a risk thereof:
   (A)   Engage in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening behavior;
   (B)   Make unreasonable noise;
   (C)   Use abusive or obscene language, or make an obscene gesture, in a
public place;
   (D)   Disturb any lawful assembly of persons without lawful authority;
   (E)   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic in or on a public way or
public place;
   (F)   Congregate with other persons in a public place, and refuse to comply
with a lawful order of the police to disperse;
   (G)   Initiate or circulate a report, knowing it to be false, concerning an
alleged or impending fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, or other emergency;
and/or
   (H)   Create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do.
(Prior Code, § 130.018) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.019 PUBLIC INTOXICATION; DRINKING.
   No person shall create, while in a state of intoxication, any disturbance of
the public in any public or private business or place.
(Prior Code, § 130.019) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.020 LOITERING.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.
      (2)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct.
      (3)   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if
the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if it appears
at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if it had been
believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm. Any
police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a loiterer or prowler
without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay in arresting the
suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other
bodily gestures. The violator's conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 130.021 ABUSE OF VENERATED OBJECTS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally abuse a public monument or structure, a
place of worship or burial, or the national or state flag.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      ABUSE. To deface, damage, defile, or otherwise physically mistreat in a
manner likely to outrage public sensibilities.
(Prior Code, § 130.021) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
§ 130.035 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person other than a peace officer or person licensed pursuant to O.R.S.
166.291, as now or hereafter amended, shall carry concealed on or about his or
her person, or within any vehicle which is under his or her control or
direction, any pistol, revolver, other firearm, knife (other than an ordinary
pocketknife with a blade less than three and one-half inches long), dirk,
dagger, stiletto, metal knuckles, or weapon, the use of which could inflict
injury upon a person or property.
(Prior Code, § 130.035) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.036 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   Except at firing ranges approved by the Chief of Police, no person other
than a peace officer shall fire or discharge a gun, including spring or air-
actuated pellet guns, air guns, or BB guns, or other weapons which propel a
projectile by use of gunpowder or other explosive, jet, or rocket propulsion.
(Prior Code, § 130.036) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.037 FIREWORKS.
   The following sections of the State Fireworks Law, together with all acts
and amendments applicable to cities which are now or hereafter enacted, are
adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter: O.R.S. 480.111,
480.120, 480.140(1), 480.150, and 480.200 through 480.290.
(Prior Code, § 130.037) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
OFFENSES RELATED TO PROPERTY
§ 130.050 TRESPASS.
   No person shall enter or remain unlawfully in or upon premises.
(Prior Code, § 130.050) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.051 VIOLATING PRIVACY OF ANOTHER.
   No person, other than a peace officer performing a lawful duty, shall enter
upon land or into a building used in whole or in part as a dwelling not his or
her own without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession
thereof, and while so trespassing, look through, or attempt to look through, a
window, door, or transom of the dwelling, or that part of the building used as
a dwelling with the intent to violate the privacy of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 130.051) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.052 MISCHIEF.
   No person shall, with intent to cause substantial inconvenience to the owner
or to another person, and having no right to do so nor reasonable ground to
believe he or she has the right, tamper, interfere with, or damage property of
another.
(Prior Code, § 130.052) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.053 PUBLIC PARK HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall go upon or be in any city park between the period of
dusk to dawn the following day.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      DAWN. Thirty minutes before official sunrise.
      DUSK. Thirty minutes after official sunset.
      OFFICIAL SUNSET and OFFICIAL SUNRISE. Those times as established for
civil aviation at the Independence, Oregon, State Airport.
   (C)   This provision shall not apply to public employees or public officials
while carrying out, or on their way to or from, their official duties, or
persons or groups to whom a park use permit has been issued by the city. Permit
requirements and fees for use of city parks and for consumption of alcoholic
beverages in city parks shall be set by resolution of the Council, as may be
amended from time to time. The existing lease with the Epworth League for use
of the Upper Park shall constitute a permit for park use for the purposes of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.053) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.054 REMOVAL, DESTRUCTION OF TREES, SHRUBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, or corporation to in any
manner cut, or otherwise mutilate, injure, or destroy, any ornamental tree,
shrub, vine, bush, flower, or other plant growing in any public park, street,
alley, park strip, or thoroughfare within the corporate limits of the city,
without first having obtained the permission therefor from the Street Committee
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.054) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.055 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall deface, molest, or injure any property now belonging
to or hereafter to be owned by the city.
   (B)   The bell now in place on the tower located on Block T in the First
Addition to the city, or any bell hereafter to be placed in this tower by order
of the City Council, shall be known as the fire bell. No person shall turn in a
false fire alarm, nor shall any person ring the fire bell except in case of
actual fire and when necessary to protect from fire public or private property
within the city; provided, however, that the Marshal shall ring the fire bell
as a curfew bell as provided by ordinance, and the Fire Chief appointed by the
City Council, or the Captain of a fire company working under the supervision of
the Fire Chief, may ring the fire bell when necessary to call out a fire
company for drill; nor shall anything in this section be considered to
interfere with the performance of any duty by the Water Superintendent or other
city official of the city.
   (C)   No person shall molest, injure, tamper with, misplace, or destroy any
fire hose, hose carts, ladders, or other property belonging to the city. No
person shall use or remove from the house or place where the same is kept any
part of the fire apparatus belonging to the city or to any fire company of the
city without the consent of the Fire Chief or the Captain of a fire company of
the city.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall drive a dray, car, cart, wagon, or other vehicle
over an unprotected fire hose.
      (2)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to aid in extinguishing a
fire or in saving or protecting property exposed to danger when ordered to do
so by the Fire Chief or the Captain of a fire company, and in case of fire
shall use the fire apparatus of the city only with the consent of, or under the
supervision of, the officers.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, or any
part thereof, may be arrested by the City Marshal, Fire Chief, or the Captain
of any fire company of the city, either with or without a writ of arrest, and
it shall by the duty of the officers to see that the provisions of this section
are strictly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 101, passed 4-1-1912) Penalty, see §
130.999
MINORS
§ 130.070 CHILDREN CONFINED IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who has, under his or her control or guidance, a child under
eight years of age shall lock or confine, or leave the child unattended, or
permit the child to be locked or confined, or left unattended, in a vehicle for
a term of time longer than 15 consecutive minutes.
   (B)   It shall be lawful and the duty of a police officer or other peace
officer finding a child confined in violation of terms of this section to enter
the vehicle and remove the child, using any force as is reasonably necessary to
effect an entrance to the vehicle where the child may be confined, in order to
remove the child.
(Prior Code, § 130.065) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.071 CURFEW.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be in or upon any public
street, highway, park, alley, or other public place within the city between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of each day during the months of October,
November, December, January, February, March, and April of each year, and
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of each day during the months of
May, June, July, August, and September of each year.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who is
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person 21 years of age or over, who
is authorized by the parent or by law to have the care and custody of the
person, or to any such person who is then engaged in a lawful pursuit or
activity which requires his or her presence in the public place during the
hours specified in this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.066)
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that lakes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 130.085 UNSWORN FALSIFICATION.
   No person shall knowingly make any false written statement to a public
servant in connection with an application for any benefit.
(Prior Code, § 130.080) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.086 OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally obstruct, impair, or hinder the
administration of law or other governmental function by means of intimidation,
force, or physical interference or obstacle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the obstruction of unlawful
governmental action or interference with the making of an arrest.
(Prior Code, § 130.081) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.087 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC RECORDS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, knowingly destroy, mutilate,
conceal, remove, make a false entry in, or falsely alter any public record.
(Prior Code, § 130.082) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.088 RESISTING, REFUSING TO AID OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist any peace officer acting in the performance of
his or her duties, or, when requested to do so, refuse to assist any such
officer in the discharge of his or her duties, or by any means whatsoever,
hinder, delay, or obstruct any such officer acting in the performance of his or
her duties.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      RESIST. Refers to the ordinary meaning of that term.
   (C)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace
officer lacked legal authority to make an arrest, provided he or she was acting
under color of his or her official authority.
(Prior Code, § 130.083) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 130.089 ESCAPE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Knowingly escape, or attempt to escape, from official detention;
and/or
      (2)   Knowingly cause, aid, assist, abet, or facilitate an escape from
official detention.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      ESCAPE. An unlawful departure.
      OFFICIAL DETENTION.
         (a)   Arrest by a peace officer;
         (b)   Detention in a vehicle or facility for the transportation or
custody of persons under arrest, charge, or conviction of an offense;
         (c)   Detention for extradition or deportation; and/or
         (d)   Other detention because the person detained is charged with, or
convicted of, an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.084) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.090 POLICE, FIRE COMMUNICATIONS.
   No person shall operate any generator or electromagnetic wave, or cause a
disturbance of the magnitude as to interfere with the proper functioning of any
Police or Fire Department radio communication system.
(Prior Code, § 130.085) (Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A violation of §§
130.001 through
130.003,
130.015 through
130.021,
130.050 through
130.054,
130.070 and
130.071, and
130.085 through
130.090 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
      (2)   Each violation of a separate provision of §§
130.001 through
130.003,
130.015 through
130.021,
130.050 through
130.054,
130.070 and
130.071, and
130.085 through
130.090 shall constitute a separate offense, and each day that a violation of
§§
130.001 through
130.003,
130.015 through
130.021,
130.050 through
130.054,
130.070 and
130.071, and
130.085 through
130.090 is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   The penalty for violation of a provision of §§
130.001 through
130.003,
130.015 through
130.021,
130.050 through
130.054,
130.070 and
130.071, and
130.085 through
130.090 that is identical to a state statute containing a lesser penalty is
limited to the penalty prescribed by state law; provided, however, that any
offense against the city which can be prosecuted as a misdemeanor under this
section shall be treated by the court hearing the offense as a violation with a
fine not to exceed $500, unless a misdemeanor complaint is prepared and served
by the city or District Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 130.999)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.055, or any part thereof shall, upon conviction thereof, in the Police
Court of the city, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a
sum not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
(Ord. 101, passed 4-1-1912; Ord. 366, passed 3-3-1975; Ord. 97-467, passed 10-
6-1997; Ord. 99-475, passed 10-25-1999)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   COMMUNICATION FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Adoption of Comprehensive, Master,
and Improvement Plans
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan
   
150.02   Street Improvement Plan
   
150.03   Transportation System Plan
   
150.04   Wastewater Facility Plan
   
150.05   Water Master Plan
   
150.06   Parks Master Plan
ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE, MASTER,
AND IMPROVEMENT PLANS
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The comprehensive plan, the urban growth boundary, and the land use
map set forth and contained in the document entitled “Falls City Comprehensive
Plan,” be, and they are hereby, adopted as the comprehensive plan, urban growth
boundary, and land use map of the city.
   (B)   No less than three copies of the document referred to in division (A)
above shall be on file and available for public inspection and reproduction in
the office of the City Recorder/Administrator at all times during normal
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 391, passed 5-8-1979; Ord. 393, passed 10-8-1979;
Ord. 495, passed 7-30-2001; Ord. 496, passed 7-30-2001; Ord. 497, passed 7-30-
2001; Ord. 5-03, passed 7-21-2003)
§ 150.02 STREET IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt the City Street Improvement Plan, as set
forth in Exhibit A of Ord. 525-2010.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 525-2010, passed 8-10-2010)
§ 150.03 TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt the City Transportation System Plan, as
set forth in Exhibit A of Ord. 532-2013.
(Prior Code, § 156.01) (Ord. 532-2013, passed 7-11-2013)
§ 150.04 WASTEWATER FACILITY PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt the City Wastewater Facility Plan, as set
forth in Exhibit A of Ord. 535-2014.
(Prior Code, § 157.01) (Ord. 535-2014, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 150.05 WATER MASTER PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt the City Water Master Plan, as set forth
in Exhibit A of Ord. 550-2017.
(Prior Code, Chapter 158) (Ord. 550-2017, passed 11-9-2017)
§ 150.06 PARKS MASTER PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt the City Parks Master Plan, as set forth
in Exhibit A of Ord. 551-2017.
(Prior Code, Chapter 159) (Ord. 551-2017, passed 12-14-2017)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Standards applicable to building
   
151.02   City Code administration
   
151.03   Local interpretation
   
151.04   Unsafe building
   
151.05   Board of Appeals
   
151.06   Violations
   
151.07   Building permit fee schedule
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO BUILDING.
   (A)   In addition to compliance with this chapter and other ordinances of
the city, building and related activities shall comply with provisions of each
of the specialty codes making up the State Building Code, adopted by the
Director of the State Department of Commerce, and the Fire and Life Safety
Code, adopted by the State Fire Marshal, as these codes were constituted on
July 1, 1974, and thereafter.
   (B)   No person shall conduct building or related activities without
compliance with these standards.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 151.02 CITY CODE ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall provide for the administration of a plan checking, building
permit, and inspection program for the structural, mechanical, and plumbing
work on one- and two-family dwellings and related structures, but not for
electrical work or work on other types of buildings.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 151.03 LOCAL INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions of § 106 of the Structural Specialty
Code, and similar provisions of other specialty codes, the Building Official
may approve a material or a method of construction not specifically prescribed
by this chapter; provided, he or she finds that the proposed design is
satisfactory and that the material, method, or work offered is for the purpose
intended at least the equivalent of that specifically prescribed by this
chapter in quality, effectiveness, fire-resistance, durability, safety, and
energy conservation, and that the Director of the Department of Commerce has
not issued a report disapproving the material or method for the purpose.
   (B)   The Building Official may refer the proposed design to the City Board
of Appeals as provided in § 204(a) of the Structural Specialty Code, and a
person affected by a ruling of the Building Official may appeal the ruling to
the Board of Appeals within 30 days of the date of the ruling.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted to preclude a
person from requesting a ruling from the Director of the Department of Commerce
prior to submitting an application to the city for a permit or after
withdrawing a previously submitted application.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 151.04 UNSAFE BUILDING.
   The law referred to in § 203 of the Structural Specialty Code is the
ordinance of the city providing for the abatement of building nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 151.05 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   For application in the city, § 204, Subsection (a), of the Structural
Specialty Code and § 203, Subsection (a), of the Mechanical Specialty Code, and
similar provisions of other specialty codes, are replaced with the following:
   “In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of
standards applicable to building and related activities, including but not
limited to the structural, mechanical, and plumbing specialty codes,
administered through this city, there is created a Board of Appeals consisting
of five voting members who are qualified by experience and training to pass
upon matters pertaining to building and related activities. The Building
Official shall be an ex officio nonvoting member and shall act as Secretary of
the Board.”
   “The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor and hold office at his
pleasure. The Board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting
its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to
the Building Official with a duplicate copy to the appellant. The Administrator
of the State Building Codes Division shall be furnished with copies of
decisions interpreting state building code requirements.”
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 151.06 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish,
equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees to be charged and collected by the city for the issuance of
building permits pursuant to this chapter shall be based upon the valuation of
the proposed building or improvement, and upon a schedule as follows:
 
Valuation of Building or Improvement Fee to Be Charge
$300 to $2,000                       $5, plus $1 for each $100 or fraction
                                     thereof over $501
$2,001 to $25,000                    $23, plus $3 for each $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof over $2,001
$25,001 to $50,000                   $91.50, plus $2.50 per thousand or
                                     fraction thereof over $25,001
$50,001 to $100,000                  $153, plus $1.50 per thousand or fraction
                                     thereof over $50,001
$100,001 and over                    $228, plus $1 for each thousand or
                                     fraction thereof over $100,001
Notes to Table:
This fee schedule shall be effective retroactively to July 1, 1974
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 151, Appendix A) (Ord. 365, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of an offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed,
continued, or permitted, and, upon conviction of any such violation, the
persons shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 364, passed 9-9-1974)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Public right-of-way
   
152.02   Temporary closures
   
152.03   Street exhibitions, community events
   
152.04   Driveway culverts
Maintenance
   
152.15   Snow, ice removal
   
152.16   Trees
   
152.17   Fences
Construction, Improvement, and Repair
   
152.30   Definitions
   
152.31   Initiating improvement
   
152.32   City Council action on report
   
152.33   Create improvement district
   
152.34   Manner of doing work
   
152.35   Contents of notice of public hearing
   
152.36   Public hearing
   
152.37   Call for bids
   
152.38   Apportionment of costs
   
152.39   Notice of assessments
   
152.40   Installment payments
   
152.41   Lien records; foreclosure proceedings
   
152.42   Errors in assessment calculations
   
152.43   Deficit assessment
   
152.44   Rebates
   
152.45   Transfers
   
152.46   Abandonment of proceedings
   
152.47   Curative provisions
   
152.48   Reassessment
Cross-reference:
   Communication facilities in the public right-of-way, see §§
153.01 through
153.15 and
153.30 through
153.34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Falls City, Oregon.
      PERSON. Individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, joint
stock company, and similar entities.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Includes, but is not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements, and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and air space over these
areas.
      WITHIN THE CITY. Territory over which the city now has or acquires
jurisdiction for the exercise of its powers.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory
control over all public rights-of-way within the city under the authority of
the City Charter and state law.
   (C)   Scope of regulatory control. The city has jurisdiction and exercises
regulatory control over each public right-of-way, whether the city has a fee,
easement, or other legal interest in the right-of-way. The city has
jurisdiction and regulatory control over each right-of-way whether the legal
interest in the right-of-way was obtained by grant, dedication, prescription,
reservation, condemnation, annexation, foreclosure, or other means.
   (D)   City permission requirement. No person may occupy or encroach on a
public right-of-way without the permission of the city. The city grants
permission to use rights-of-way by franchises, licenses, and permits.
   (E)   Obligations of the city. The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory
control over a public right-of-way by the city is not official acceptance of
the right-of-way, and does not obligate the city to maintain or repair any part
of the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 97-465, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 152.02 TEMPORARY CLOSURES.
   (A)   Purpose and need. As the road authority for all highways, roads,
streets, and alleys within the city’s boundaries, the City Council finds and
considers necessary that travel and parking upon certain roads and streets be
temporarily restricted during community events for the protection of
pedestrians, and that the temporary restrictions should be implemented by the
placement of appropriate traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Temporary restrictions/closures to be implemented by resolution. The
implementation of the authority stated in this section shall be by resolution
adopted by the Council, which resolution shall plainly state those portions of
roads, streets, and alleys to be restricted, together with the duration of
those restrictions, and further direct placement of appropriate traffic-control
devices.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 94-458, passed 10-5-1994)
§ 152.03 STREET EXHIBITIONS, COMMUNITY EVENTS.
   (A)   Permission required for street exhibitions or community events. It
shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or organization to hold any street fair
or carnival, or give any show or exhibition, including community events and
celebrations, upon the streets, except upon permission granted by the Council.
   (B)   Requirements for street exhibitions or community events.
      (1)   In addition to any other requirements deemed necessary by the
Council, no person, firm, or organization shall be granted permission to
conduct, sponsor, or otherwise participate in a street exhibition or community
event upon the streets, including, but not limited to, a street or sidewalk
stand of any kind, a mobile device, or other such vehicle used for the sale of
merchandise, unless the person shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Provide the city with documentary evidence from an insurance
carrier of insurance against liability in an amount which shall be determined
by the Council, and further showing the city as an additional insured under the
policy;
         (b)   Agree to maintain a clear passageway for emergency vehicle
movements;
         (c)   Provide adequate sanitation facilities;
         (d)   Provide the city with at least 48-hours’ notice; and/or
         (e)   Provide the city a nonrefundable fee of $25 per day.
      (2)   The person, firm, or organization granted permission to conduct,
sponsor, or otherwise participate in a street exhibition or community event
upon the streets shall be solely responsible for placement and removal of all
signs and barricades. Provided, however, the placement and removal shall be at
the direction and under the supervision of the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Obstructions.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, it shall be unlawful
for any person to place, park, leave, deposit, or maintain any structure,
barricade, or other obstruction such as building material or merchandise, other
than lawfully parked vehicles, on any arterial or collector street, or in the
travel lanes of residential streets, without first notifying the Mayor, or his
or her designee, and obtaining his or her written permission.
      (2)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may impose any reasonable
conditions on hours of use, duration of use, barricading, lighting, or other
marking which he or she deems necessary to protect the safety of persons and
property in the vicinity, and to provide for the expeditious movement of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic around the obstruction.
      (3)   (a)   No permission shall be required to place building material in
the parking lanes of residential streets; provided, appropriate barricading and
lighting are placed to protect the safety of persons and property in the
vicinity, and the material is removed and the street cleaned within 30 days of
the placement.
         (b)   In no event shall the material extend more than eight feet from
the curb line.
         (c)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may grant extensions of time
in his or her discretion, upon request.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 93-452, passed 10-7-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, and subject to the
limitations of division (B) below, all driveway culverts within the city must
comply with the minimum requirements set forth in division (C) below.
   (B)   This section shall only be effective with respect to streets and
driveways which are established, re-established, or improved after the
effective date of this section.
   (C)   All driveway culverts, to which this section is applicable, shall be
placed under the direction of the City Superintendent of Public Works and shall
be a minimum of 12 inches in diameter and a minimum of 24 feet long, and shall
be placed in the street along the drain lines existing at the time of
placement.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall constitute a “public nuisance,”
pursuant to Chapter 90, and may be punished and/or abated in accordance with
that chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 401, passed 4-6-1981)
Cross-reference:
   Regulations on nuisances, abatement, penalties, see §§
90.01 through
90.13,
90.25 through
90.30,
90.45 through
90.49, and
90.99
MAINTENANCE
§ 152.15 SNOW, ICE REMOVAL.
   No person or person in charge of any property, improved or unimproved,
abutting upon any public sidewalk shall permit:
   (A)   Any snow to remain on the sidewalk for a period longer than the first
five hours of daylight after the snow has fallen; and
   (B)   Any sidewalk to be covered with ice. It shall be the duty of any
person or person in charge to remove any ice accumulating on the sidewalk or to
properly cover the ice with sand, ashes, or other suitable material to assure
safe travel within the first five hours of daylight after the ice has formed.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 152.16 TREES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon any street or
sidewalk may permit trees or bushes on his or her property, or on the parking
strip adjacent thereto, to interfere with street or sidewalk traffic. It shall
be the duty of an owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon a
street or sidewalk to keep all trees and bushes on his or her premises and on
the adjoining parking strip trimmed to a height of not less than eight feet
above the sidewalks, and not less than ten feet above the streets.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property may allow to stand any dead
or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or to persons, or property on
or near the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 152.17 FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall construct or maintain any barbed-wire fence or allow
barbed wire to remain as a part of any fence along a sidewalk or public way,
unless such wire is placed not less than six inches below and on the property
owner’s side, not exposed to the public, and above the top of a board or picket
fence that is not less than six feet high.
   (B)   No person shall install, maintain, or operate a wire fence charged
with electrical current along a street or sidewalk, or along the adjoining
property line of another person.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 06-512, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 07-516, passed 7-2-
2007; Ord. 08-519, passed 5-12-2008)
CONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT, AND REPAIR
§ 152.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   IMPROVEMENT. The acquisition, alteration, change in the grade of,
construction, establishment, installation, laying, laying out, opening,
reconstruction, repair, or widening of any street, alley, avenue, sewer, drain,
water main, sidewalk, curb, gutter, off-street motor vehicle parking facility,
or the performance of any other public work for which an assessment may be made
on the property benefitted thereby.
   PROPERTY BENEFITTED.
      (1)   All property specifically benefitted by the improvement.
      (2)   The relative extent of the benefit shall be determined by any just
and reasonable method of apportionment of the total cost of the improvement
among the properties determined to be specially benefitted therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.31 INITIATING IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Property owners who will be benefitted thereby may petition the City
Council to make an improvement or the City Council may, on its own motion,
initiate any improvement. Whenever the City Council determines that an
improvement shall be made, regardless of whether the improvement was initiated
by the petition of property owners or the motion of the Council, it shall
direct the Superintendent of Public Works to cause a written report covering
the improvement to be prepared and presented to the City Council.
   (B)   Unless the Council otherwise directs, the report shall contain the
following matters:
      (1)   A map or plat showing the general nature, location, and extent of
the improvement and the land to be assessed for the payment of any part of the
cost;
      (2)   Plans, specifications, and estimates of the work to be done. Where
the improvement is to be carried out in cooperation with any other governmental
agency, the City Council may adopt the plans, specifications, and estimates of
the agency;
      (3)   An estimate of the probable cost of the improvement, including
legal, administrative, advertising, and engineering costs;
      (4)   An estimate of the cost of the improvement to the property
benefitted;
      (5)   A recommendation of the method of assessment to be used to arrive
at a fair apportionment of the whole or any portion of the cost of the
improvement to the property benefitted thereby;
      (6)   The description and assessed value of each lot, parcel of land, or
portion thereof, to be specially benefitted by the improvement, with the name
or names of the owners thereof as shown by the latest assessment roll in the
office of the County Assessor;
      (7)   A statement of unpaid city liens against the property to be
assessed; and
      (8)   A description of all property or property interests which must be
acquired to make the improvement and estimates of the costs to obtain the
property or property interests. A copy of the completed report shall be filed
in the office of the City Recorder/Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.32 CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON REPORT.
   After the report has been filed, the City Council, by motion, may approve
the report, modify and approve the report, require additional information about
the improvement, or abandon the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.33 CREATE IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   After approving the report, the City Council, by resolution, shall declare
its intention to make the improvement, provide the manner and method of
carrying out the improvement, and direct that the City Recorder/Administrator
to:
   (A)   Give notice of the Council’s intention to make the improvement by the
posting of the notice in three public places within the city, one of which
shall be at the City Hall, and one of which shall be in the immediate area of
the proposed improvement. The notices shall be posted within five days of the
date of the resolution, and an affidavit of the posting shall be filed in the
Recorder/Administrator’s office; and
   (B)   Mail a copy of the notice of the Council’s intention to make the
improvement to the owner or owners of property to be benefitted by the
improvement, as shown by the latest assessment roll in the office of the County
Assessor. The notice shall be mailed within five days from the date of the
adoption of the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.34 MANNER OF DOING WORK.
   The City Council may provide in the improvement resolution that the
construction work may be done in whole or in part by the city, by a contract,
by any other governmental agency, or by any combination of those methods.
(Prior Code, § 91.19) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.35 CONTENTS OF NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   The posted and published notice of the Council’s intent to make the
improvement shall contain the following information:
   (A)   In general terms, the kind of improvement proposed to be made;
   (B)   The report relating to the improvement is on file in the office of the
City Recorder/Administrator and open to public inspection;
   (C)   A general description of the property to be benefitted by the
improvement;
   (D)   An estimate of the total cost of the improvement;
   (E)   An estimate of the cost of the improvement to be assessed against the
property to be benefitted thereby; and
   (F)   The City Council will hold a public hearing on the question of making
the improvement on a specified date and at a specified time, which shall be not
earlier than 15 days from the date of the first publication and posting of the
notice, at which objections and remonstrance’s to the improvement will be
heard.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.36 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The City Council, at the time specified in the notice, or at any other time
as it may adjourn the meeting to, not exceeding, however, 60 days from and
after the date set for the hearing, shall hear and determine all objections and
remonstrances which may be made by the persons to be affected by the
improvement. Within 60 days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Council
shall determine, by resolution, whether the proposed improvement or any part
thereof shall or shall not be made, and the time within which it shall be
completed.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.37 CALL FOR BIDS.
   (A)   If all or any part of the improvement is to be constructed by a
contractor, the Council shall order the City Recorder/Administrator to
advertise for bids for the construction for the time and in the manner as the
Council shall specify.
   (B)   No contract shall be advertised for, nor let, until the Council has
determined, by resolution, that the improvement shall be made.
   (C)   Any contract for the improvement, or any part thereof, shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
   (D)   The City Council may reject any or all bids when they are deemed
unreasonable or unsatisfactory.
   (E)   If no bids are received, or if the bids received are rejected, the
Council may, in its discretion, call for other bids as in the first instance,
or change the manner in which the improvement shall be constructed.
   (F)   The City Council shall provide for bonding all contractors for the
faithful performance of any contracts let under its authority, and the
provisions thereof in case of default shall be enforced by action in the name
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.38 APPORTIONMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   At any time after the passage of the resolution determining that the
improvement or some part thereof shall be made, the Superintendent of Public
Works shall ascertain, as nearly as possible, the cost of the improvement and
report the cost to the City Council. The City Council shall proceed thereafter
by ordinance to assess the various lots, parcels of land, or portions thereof
specially benefitted by the improvement, with its share of the cost of the
improvement, or so much thereof as the City Council shall determine to be
appropriate. The City Council, in adopting a method of assessment of the costs
of the improvement, may:
      (1)   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of the
improvement district consistent with the benefits derived;
      (2)   Use any just and reasonable method of apportioning the sum to be
assessed among the properties benefitted; and/or
      (3)   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of the cost of the
improvement when, in the opinion of the City Council, the topographical or
physical conditions, unusual or excessive public travel, or other character of
the work involved warrant only a partial payment or no payment of the costs of
the improvement by the property benefitted. The proportion to be paid by the
city shall represent a reasonable relation between the benefits derived by the
property specially assessed and the benefits derived by the city as a whole.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter precludes the City Council from using other
available means of financing improvements, including federal or state grants-
in-aid, sewer, water, or other utility charges or fees, revenue bonds, general
obligation bonds, or any other legal means of finance. If other means of
financing improvements are used, the City Council, in its discretion, may levy
special assessments according to the benefits derived to cover any remaining
part of the costs of the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 91.23) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.39 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Within 30 days after the adoption of the assessment ordinance, the City
Recorder/Administrator shall mail a notice of the assessment to the owner or
owners of the assessed property as shown by the latest assessment roll in the
office of the County Assessor, and shall publish notice of the assessment by
posting the same in three public places in the city as provided in §
152.33(A), the posting to be done not later than 20 days after the date the
assessment ordinance becomes effective. The notice of assessment shall recite
the date the assessment ordinance became effective, and state that if the owner
of the property assessed fails to make written application to pay the
assessment in full within 30 days from the date the assessment ordinance became
effective, interest will commence to run on the assessment and the property
assessed will be subject to foreclosure. The notice shall set forth a
description of the property assessed, the name of the owner or owners of the
property, and the amount of each assessment.
(Prior Code, § 91.24) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.40 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of property assessed for an improvement in the sum of $25 or
more, within ten days from the date of the posting of the notice of assessment,
may make written application to the City Recorder/Administrator to pay the
assessment in installments. The City Recorder/Administrator may approve the
installment application, provided:
      (1)   The amount remaining unpaid upon the assessment with any unpaid
balance of any previous assessments for an improvement against the same
property does not exceed double the assessed valuation of the property, as
shown by the last county tax roll; and
      (2)   The installment payment period does not exceed ten years.
   (B)   If the assessed valuation of the property, as shown by the last county
tax roll, is insufficient to permit installment payments, the City Council, by
motion, may authorize payments in any manner it determines to be fair and
reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 91.25) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.41 LIEN RECORDS; FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   After adoption of the assessment ordinance, the City Recorder/
Administrator shall enter in the lien docket a statement of the amounts
assessed upon each particular lot, parcel of land, or portion thereof, a
description of the improvement, the names of the owner or owners thereof, and
the date the assessment ordinance became effective. The amount entered in the
lien docket becomes a lien and charge upon the particular lot, parcel of land,
or portion thereof assessed for the improvement as of the date the assessment
ordinance became effective. Interest shall be charged at the rate of 7% a year
on the balance of the assessment which is unpaid after 30 days from the date
the assessment ordinance became effective. All unpaid assessments and interest
are a lien on each lot, parcel of land, or portion thereof, in favor of the
city, and the liens have priority over all other liens and encumbrances
whatsoever.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions set forth in this subchapter, the city
may use any method authorized by law to enforce collection of delinquent liens.
The liens shall be considered delinquent if not paid or placed on an
installment basis within 30 days after entry on the lien docket. The city, at
its option, may become a bidder for the property being offered at a foreclosure
sale.
   (C)   If the owner neglects or refuses to pay an installment within one year
of the due date thereof, the City Council may adopt a resolution declaring the
whole sum, both principal and interest, owing on the assessment due and payable
at once. The City Council may then proceed at once to collect the assessment,
or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.26) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.42 ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of assessments maybe reported to the City
Recorder/Administrator, who shall determine whether there has or has not been
an error in fact. If the City Recorder/Administrator finds that there has been
an error in fact, he or she shall recommend to the City Council an amendment to
the assessment ordinance to correct the error, and, upon enactment of the
amendment, the City Recorder/Administrator shall make the necessary correction
in the lien docket and send a correct notice of assessment by registered or
certified mail. If he or she finds there has been no error in fact, he or she
shall reject the claim.
(Prior Code, § 91.27) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.43 DEFICIT ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If an assessment is made before the total cost of the improvement is
ascertained and if the amount of the assessment is insufficient to pay the
costs of the improvement, the City Council, by motion, may declare the deficit
and prepare a proposed deficit assessment.
   (B)   The City Council shall set a time for hearing objections to the
deficit assessment and direct the City Recorder/Administrator to publish and
post notices of the hearing as provided in §
152.33(A).
   (C)   After the hearing, the City Council, by ordinance, shall make a just
and equitable deficit assessment which shall be entered in the lien docket as
provided by this code, and notices of the deficit assessment shall be posted
and mailed, and the collection of the assessment shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in this subchapter for taking the initial assessment.
(Prior Code, § 91.28) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.44 REBATES.
   If, upon completion of the improvement, the assessment previously levied on
any property is more than sufficient to pay the costs of the improvement, the
City Council must ascertain and declare the same by ordinance and, when so
declared, the excess amounts must be entered on the lien docket as a credit
upon the appropriate assessment. In the event that any assessment has been
paid, the person who paid, or his or her legal representative, is entitled to
repayment of the rebate credit, or the portion which exceeds the amount unpaid
on the original assessment.
(Prior Code, § 91.29) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.45 TRANSFERS.
   When any deficit or surplus exists after completion of collection of all
liens and payments of all liabilities involving an individual assessment roll,
the City Council shall authorize the payment of any deficit from the General
Fund, and shall authorize the transfer of any surplus to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.46 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The City Council has full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for any improvement made under this code at any time prior to the
final completion of the improvement. If liens have been assessed upon any
property under this procedure, they shall be canceled, and any payments made on
the assessments shall be refunded to the person paying them, or his or her
assigns or legal representatives.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.47 CURATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No improvement assessment is rendered invalid because of a failure of
any report to contain all the information required by §
152.31, or because of an omission or deficit in the improvement resolution, the
assessment ordinance, the lien docket, or notices to be published by posting
and mailing, nor by the failure to list the name of, or mail notice to, the
owner of any property as required by this subchapter, or by reason of any other
error, mistake, delay, omission, irregularity, or other act, jurisdictional or
otherwise, in any of the proceedings, or steps specified herein, unless it
appears that the assessment is unfair or unjust in its effect upon the person
complaining.
   (B)   The City Council has the power and authority to remedy and correct all
assessments determined by it to be unfair or unjust by suitable action or
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
§ 152.48 REASSESSMENT.
   Whenever any assessment, deficit assessment, or reassessment for any
improvement which has been made by the city is set aside, annulled, declared,
or rendered void, or its enforcement restrained by any court of this state, or
any federal court having jurisdiction, or when the City Council doubts the
validity of the assessment, deficit assessment, or reassessment, or any part
thereof, then the City Council may make a reassessment in the manner provided
by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) (Ord. 333, passed 2-8-1971)
CHAPTER 153: COMMUNICATION FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
Construction Standards
   
153.01   General
   
153.02   Construction code
   
153.03   Construction permits requests
   
153.04   Construction permits
   
153.05   Verification
   
153.06   Construction schedule
   
153.07   Construction permit fee
   
153.08   Issuance of permit
   
153.09   Notice of construction
   
153.10   Compliance with permit
   
153.11   Non-complying work
   
153.12   Completion of construction
   
153.13   As-built drawings
   
153.14   Restoration
   
153.15   Performance, completion bond
Location of Facilities
   
153.30   Location of facilities
   
153.31   Interference with public right-of-way
   
153.32   Relocation, removal of facilities
   
153.33   Removal of unauthorized facilities
   
153.34   Coordination of construction activities
Cross-reference:
   Regulations on communication facilities, franchises, see §§
111.01 through
111.07,
111.20 through
111.23,
111.35 through
111.60, and
111.99
   Regulations on streets and sidewalks, see §§
152.01 through
152.04,
152.15 through
152.17, and
152.30 through
152.48
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 153.01 GENERAL.
   No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation, or
operation of facilities within a public right-of-way except as provided in §§
153.04 through
153.13, and
153.30 through
153.34, and in compliance with all applicable city and state codes, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.02 CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   Facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated, and maintained in
accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local codes, rules, and
regulations including the National Electrical Code and the National Electrical
Safety Code.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.03 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS REQUESTS.
   (A)   Except in the event of an emergency, no person shall construct or
install any facilities within a public right-of-way without first obtaining a
construction permit and paying the construction permit fee as established by
resolution of the City Council. No permit shall be issued for the construction
or installation of communications facilities within a public right-of-way
unless:
      (1)   The requestor, if so required, has first filed a registration form
with the city as required by §§
111.20 through
111.23; and
      (2)   The requestor has applied for and received a franchise pursuant to
§§
111.35 through
111.60.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency and in compliance with City Code, a
permittee or its contractor may perform work on its facilities to address the
emergency without first obtaining a permit from the city, provided it attempts
to notify the city prior to commencing the emergency work, and in any event
applies for a permit from the city and pays any applicable permit fee as soon
as reasonably practicable. As used in this section, EMERGENCY means a
circumstance in which immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities
is necessary to restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or
property.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Communication franchise agreements required, see §§
111.35 through
111.60
   Registration of telecommunications franchise, see §§
111.20 through
111.23
§ 153.04 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   Requests for permits to construct communications facilities shall be
submitted upon forms to be provided by the city, and shall be accompanied by
drawings, plans, and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   (A)   The facilities will be constructed in accordance with all federal,
state, and city applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
   (B)   The facilities will be constructed in accordance with any applicable
franchise agreement;
   (C)   The location and route of all facilities to be installed aboveground
or on existing utility poles;
   (D)   The location and route of all facilities on or in the public rights-
of-way to be located under the surface of the ground, including the line and
grade proposed for the burial at all points along the route within the city.
Existing facilities shall be differentiated on the plans from new construction.
If requested, a cross section shall be provided showing new or existing
facilities in relation to the street, curb, sidewalk, or right-of-way; and
   (E)   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public rights-
of-way, and the description of any improvements that the applicant proposes to
temporarily or permanently remove or relocate.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.05 VERIFICATION.
   All construction permit requests shall be accompanied by the verification of
a registered professional engineer, or other qualified and duly authorized
representative affirming that the drawings, plans, and specifications submitted
comply with applicable technical codes, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.06 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All construction permit applications shall be accompanied by a written
construction schedule, which shall include an estimated date for completion of
construction.
   (B)   The construction schedule is subject to approval by the Public Works
Director.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.07 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE.
   Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the requestor shall pay a permit
fee in an amount established by resolution otherwise by the City Council. Such
fee shall be designed to defray the costs of city administration of the
construction. The city shall waive the construction permit fee if the requestor
is a non-breaching party to an unexpired franchise agreement with the city and
that franchise agreement obligates the franchisee to pay a franchise fee on all
the services it provides within the city or if the requester is a provider
acting in compliance with this chapter, including right-of-way use fee payment
obligations.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.08 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If satisfied that the plans and documents submitted comply with all
requirements of this chapter and with any applicable franchise agreement, the
Public Works Director shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the
facilities, subject to such further conditions affecting the time, place, and
manner of performing the work.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.09 NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Except in the case of an emergency, the permittee shall notify the Public
Works Director not less than two working days in advance of any excavation or
construction in the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.10 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and the approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The
Public Works Director and representatives shall be provided access to the work
site and such further information as they may require to ensure compliance with
such requirements.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.11 NON-COMPLYING WORK.
   (A)   Subject to the notice requirements in §
153.33, all work which does not comply with the permit, the approved or
corrected plans and specifications for the work, or the requirements of this
chapter, shall be removed at the sole expense of the permittee.
   (B)   The city is authorized to stop work in order to assure compliance with
the provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.12 COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the public rights-of-way and other public and private
property. All construction work within the public rights-of-way, including
restoration, must be completed within 120 days of the date of issuance of the
construction permit unless an extension or an alternate schedule has been
approved by the appropriate city official.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.13 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, if requested
by the city, the permittee shall furnish the city with up to two complete sets
of plans drawn to scale and accurately depicting the location of all facilities
constructed pursuant to the permit. These plans shall be submitted to the City
Manager, or designee, within 60 days after completion of construction, in a
format acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.14 RESTORATION.
   (A)   (1)   When a permittee, or any person acting on his or her behalf,
does any work in or affecting any public rights-of-way or city property, it
shall, at his or her own expense, promptly restore such ways or property to as
good an order and condition as existed prior to the work, unless otherwise
directed by the city.
      (2)   Repairs guaranteed by permittees shall meet all of the following
conditions in order to remain in conformance with this chapter:
         (a)   The entire area shall be free from delamination of the approved
surface material;
         (b)   No distortion of one-half inch or greater shall exist over more
than 5% of the total surface area of the repair;
         (c)   No cracks of one-quarter inch or greater shall exist in the
surface or edges of the repair totaling more than 5% of the repair perimeter;
and
         (d)   Distortion conditions over one inch may necessitate that full
repairs be completed within 24 hours of notification by the city.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
permittee shall, for a period of five years thereafter, be fully liable for all
defects in materials and workmanship relating to such construction or
restoration.
   (B)   (1)   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this section, the permittee shall temporarily restore
the affected rights-of-way or property.
      (2)   Such temporary restoration shall be at the permittee’s sole
expense, and the permittee shall promptly undertake and complete the required
permanent restoration when the weather or other conditions no longer prevent
such permanent restoration.
   (C)   (1)   If the permittee fails to restore rights-of-way or property to
good order and condition, the city shall give the permittee written notice and
provide the permittee a reasonable period of time not exceeding 30 days to
restore the rights-of-way or property.
      (2)   If, after notice, the permittee fails to restore the rights-of-way
or property to as good an order and condition as existed before the work was
undertaken, the city shall cause such restoration to be made at the expense of
the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee or other person acting on its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagging attendants, lights, flares, and other measures as
required for the safety of all members of the general public, and to prevent
injury or damage to any person, vehicle, or property by reason of such work in
or affecting such rights-of-way or property.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.15 PERFORMANCE, COMPLETION BOND.
   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, a performance
bond or other form of surety acceptable to the city equal to at least 100% of
the estimated cost of constructing a permittee’s facilities within the public
rights-of-way of the city shall be provided to the city before construction is
commenced.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
surety shall remain in force until 60 days after substantial completion of the
work, as determined in writing by the city, including restoration of public
rights-of-way and other property affected by the construction.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in an unexpired franchise agreement, the
surety shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the city:
      (1)   Timely completion of construction;
      (2)   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes, and standards;
      (3)   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the city;
      (4)   Restoration of the public rights-of-way and other property affected
by the construction; and
      (5)   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands, or liens
for labor, material, or services provided in connection with the work.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
LOCATION OF FACILITIES
§ 153.30 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   All facilities located within the public right-of-way shall be constructed,
installed, and located in accordance with the terms of the construction permit
and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities, and all
applicable city codes, rules, and regulations. Whenever any existing electric
utilities or communications facilities are within a public right-of-way and are
located underground or required to be located underground by city code, a
communications provider occupying or proposing to occupy the same public right-
of-way must also locate its facilities underground at its own expense.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.31 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No communications provider may locate or maintain its facilities so as to
interfere with the city’s use of the public rights-of-way or to unreasonably
interfere with use by the general public or by other persons authorized to use
or occupy the public rights-of-way. All use of public rights-of-way shall be
consistent with city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.32 RELOCATION, REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   A communications provider shall, at no cost to the city, temporarily
or permanently remove, relocate, change, or alter the position of any
facilities within the public rights-of-way, including relocation of aerial
facilities underground, when requested to do so in writing by the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude a communications
provider from requesting reimbursement or compensation from a third party,
pursuant to applicable laws, regulations, tariffs, or agreements; provided,
that the communications provider shall timely comply with the requirements of
this section regardless of whether or not it has requested or received such
reimbursement or compensation.
   (C)   The city shall provide at least 30 days’ written notice of the time by
which the communications provider must remove, relocate, change, alter, or
underground its facilities. The city may grant extensions upon the
communications provider’s request. If a communications provider fails to
remove, relocate, alter, or underground any facility as requested by the city
and by the date established by the city, the communications provider shall pay
all costs incurred by the city due to such failure, including, but not limited
to, costs related to project delays. Upon such failure, the city may cause the
facility to be removed, relocated, altered, or undergrounded at the
communications provider’s sole expense, and shall use qualified personnel or
contractors consistent with applicable state and federal safety laws and
regulations. Upon receipt of a detailed invoice from the city, the
communications provider shall reimburse the city for the costs the city
incurred within 30 days.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.33 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the city, or at a later
date agreed upon by the parties, any communications provider or other person
who owns, controls, or maintains any unauthorized system, facility, or related
appurtenances within the public rights-of-way shall, at its own expense, remove
such system, facilities, and/or appurtenances from the city public rights-of-
way.
   (B)   A system, facility, or appurtenance is subject to removal under this
section in the following circumstances:
      (1)   One year after the expiration or termination of the communications
provider’s franchise agreement, unless the city has provided written
authorization for abandonment in place.
      (2)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public rights-of-way.
         (a)   A facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated,
out of service, or not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a
period of 90 days or longer.
         (b)   A facility will not be considered abandoned if it is temporarily
out of service during performance of repairs or if the facility is being
replaced. The city shall contact the provider before concluding that a facility
is abandoned. A facility may be abandoned in place and not removed if the city
authorizes such abandonment and nonremoval in writing, and there is no apparent
risk to the public safety, health, or welfare.
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the
appropriate prior authority at the time of construction or installation.
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
authorized by the communications provider’s franchise or other legally
sufficient permit.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 153.34 COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   A communications provider is required to make a good faith effort to
cooperate with the city.
   (B)   By January 1 of each year, a communications provider shall provide the
city with a schedule of their known proposed construction activities in or near
the public rights-of-way or affecting the right-of-way.
   (C)   If requested by the city, a communications provider shall meet with
the city to schedule and coordinate construction in the public rights-of-way.
   (D)   All construction locations, activities, and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the City Engineer, or designee, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption, or damages.
(Ord. 557-2019, passed 12-9-2020)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Statement of purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Chapter applicability
   
154.05   Areas of special flood hazard
Administration
   
154.20   Establishment of development permit
   
154.21   City Council
   
154.22   Duties, responsibilities; City Council
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.35   General standards
   
154.36   Specific standards
   
154.37   Floodways
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The state legislature has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize the expenditure of public money and costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood-
blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on
maps always includes the letters “A” or “V.”
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation on maps always
includes the letters “A” or “V.”
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found in §
154.36(B)(1)(b).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either:
      (1)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      (2)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.04 CHAPTER APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.05 AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Falls City,” dated December 1, 1986, with
accompanying flood insurance maps, is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file at City
Hall.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
154.05.
   (B)   The permit shall be for all structures, including manufactured homes,
as set forth in §
154.03, and for all development, including fill and other activities, also as
set forth in §
154.03.
(Prior Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.21 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance
with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 150.21) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.22 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES; CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Generally. The duties of the City Council shall include, but not be
limited to, the following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Permit review. The City Council shall:
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of §
154.37(B)(1) are met.
      (2)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has
not been provided in accordance with §
154.05, the City Council shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer §§
154.36 and
154.37.
      (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained. The City Council shall:
         (a)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in division (B)(2) above, obtain and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not
the structure contains a basement;
         (b)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
seal level); and
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §§
154.35 and
154.36.
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourses. The City Council shall:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the Division of State Lands
(LCDC), prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of the notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
and
         (b)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (5)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. The City Council shall make
interpretations, where needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the
areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation. The appeals shall be granted consistent with the
standards of § 60.6 of the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. § 59-76).
(Prior Code, § 150.22) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
(Reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas
guidebook for additional techniques.)
      (2)   Construction materials and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage.
         (d)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or five acres, whichever is less.
      (5)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source,
as set forth in §
154.22(B)(2), applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure
that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding, and the like, where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
(Prior Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood
elevation data has been provided as set forth in §§
154.05 or
154.22(B)(2), the following provisions are required.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Residential construction.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation, or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantial impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division (B)(2) based on
their development and/or review of the structural design, specifications, and
plans. The certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
154.22(B)(3)(b);
         (d)   Non-residential structures that are elevated, and not
floodproofed, must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as
described in division (B)(1)(b) above; and/or
         (e)   Applicants floodproofing non-residential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the floodproofed level (for example, a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as one foot below that level).
      (3)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation, and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of §
154.35(B)(1)(b).
(Prior Code, § 150.36) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 154.37 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
154.05 are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development, unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.37) (Ord. 417, passed 5-4-1987)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Purpose
   
155.04   Exceptions to subdivision regulations
   
155.05   Areas involved
   
155.06   Fees
Procedures
   
155.20   Subdivision of areas into four or more lots
   
155.21   Action on final plats ready for recording
   
155.22   Time limit for recording of plat
   
155.23   Portion of subdivision may be recorded
   
155.24   Copies of recorded plats to be furnished
Regulations
   
155.35   Streets and highways
   
155.36   Dedication of right-of-way
   
155.37   Dead-end streets
   
155.38   Radius at street intersections
   
155.39   Street grades
   
155.40   Reserve block
   
155.41   Street widths
   
155.42   Additional right-of-way widths
   
155.43   Two-level streets
   
155.44   Street improvements
Blocks and Lots
   
155.55   Subdivision blocks
   
155.56   Midblock walks
   
155.57   Lot size
   
155.58   Curved front lot lines
   
155.59   Corner lots
   
155.60   Lot line
   
155.61   Building lines along streets
   
155.62   Public survey monuments
   
155.63   Water supply
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Subdivision Ordinance of Falls City,
Oregon.”
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way or thoroughfare not more than 20 feet wide, providing a
secondary means of access to private property.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land bounded by three or more streets in a subdivision.
   BUILDING LINES. The lines indicated on the subdivision plat or otherwise
described, limiting the area upon which structures may be erected.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   CORNER LOT. A lot or portion thereof situated at the intersection of two or
more streets.
   CURB LINE. The line indicating the edge of the vehicular roadway within the
overall right-of-way.
   EASEMENT. The grant of a right of use across or through a block or tract.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land occupied, or to be occupied, by a building or
unit group of buildings, and accessory buildings, together with any yards or
open spaces as are required by this chapter, and having a frontage upon a
street.
   OWNER. The owner of record of real property, as shown on the latest tax
rolls of the county or by the deed records of the county, or a person who is
purchasing a parcel of property under a written contract of sale.
   PERSON. Unless the context indicates otherwise, includes an individual,
partnership, corporation, both public and private, association, or club.
   PLAT. Includes a final map, diagram, drawing, replat, or other writing
containing all the descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications,
provisions, and information concerning a subdivision.
   RESERVE BLOCK. A strip of land, usually one foot in width, extending across
the end of a street or alley and terminating at the boundary of a subdivision,
or a strip of land between a dedicated street of less than full width and
adjacent acreage, in either case, reserved or held for future street extension
or widening.
   STREET. A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties for
vehicular, pedestrian, public utilities, and other uses. The term STREET shall
include designations such as highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road,
avenue, boulevard, lane, court, place, or other terms.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, or group who undertakes the subdivision of
a parcel of land for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development and
including changes in street or lot lines.
   SUBDIVISION. As applied to these regulations, the term means to partition a
parcel of land into four or more parcels for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or buildings development, either immediate or future, when the parcel
exists as a unit or contiguous units under a single ownership as shown on the
tax roll for the year preceding the partitioning.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   To protect the people, among other purposes, these provisions are
intended to provide for a permanently wholesome community environment, adequate
municipal services, and safe streets, for accomplishing, among other things,
the following objectives:
      (1)   Better living conditions within new subdivisions;
      (2)   Areas which may be economically developed;
      (3)   Simplification and definiteness of land descriptions;
      (4)   Establishment and development of streets, utilities, and public
areas; and
      (5)   Stabilization of property values in the subdivision and adjacent
areas.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.04 EXCEPTIONS TO SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authorization. The Council may authorize a variance of any
requirements set forth in these standards.
   (B)   Basic considerations for a variance. The basic reason for granting a
variance will be proof that:
      (1)   Special conditions or circumstances peculiar to the property under
consideration make a variance necessary;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the proper development of the
subdivision and the preservation of property rights and values; and/or
      (3)   The variance will not at present or hereafter be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other properties adjacent to or in the vicinity
of the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Consideration for variance. Consideration for a variance from these
regulations shall be based upon a written statement by the subdivider in which
is given complete details of conditions and reasons why a specific variance
should be granted. A request for a variance from these regulations shall be
filed with the Council prior to presentation of the final plat for approval. No
variance will be considered after a plat has been recorded.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.05 AREAS INVOLVED.
   This chapter shall be applicable to all lands inside the corporate limits of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.06 FEES.
   Each person who shall file an application for the approval of a subdivision
shall pay, at the time of the filing, a fee of $5 to the City Recorder/
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
PROCEDURES
§ 155.20 SUBDIVISION OF AREAS INTO FOUR OR MORE LOTS.
   (A)   Generally. When it is proposed to subdivide land into four or more
parcels (or to record the plat of the subdivision containing less than four
parcels), the applicant shall file one reproducible copy of the preliminary
plan for the proposed subdivision with the City Council at least 30 days prior
to the date that it is to be considered by the Council. Preliminary plans shall
include the following information and data.
   (B)   Name of subdivision. The name of any proposed subdivision shall not be
the same as or similar to any name used on a recorded plat or subdivision in
either the city or the county.
   (C)   Vicinity map.
      (1)   The vicinity map showing all subdivisions, roads or road
reservations, acreage property lines with dimensions, streams, public buildings
and areas, and any other pertinent information that will assist in
consideration of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   The vicinity map shall extend at least 800 feet from the proposed
subdivision.
   (D)   Subdivision plan. The preliminary plan of the proposed subdivision
shall be on a scale of one inch equals 200 feet, or on a larger scale if
desired, and show information and data as follows:
      (1)   A legal description of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   The location of all existing or proposed roads within or on the
boundary of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   Lot layout with approximate dimensions;
      (4)   The land use zoning in and adjacent to the proposed subdivision
shall be shown on the preliminary plats;
      (5)   An outline of proposed deed restrictions or covenants, if any,
shall be indicated;
      (6)   The location of all buildings within the proposed subdivision and
their present uses. Those to remain shall be indicated;
      (7)   The location, size, and use of all contemplated and existing public
areas within the proposed subdivision, and a description of the adaptability of
the area for uses contemplated. Areas for public use approved by the Council
shall be dedicated for that use and indicated on the final plat before
recording;
      (8)   The location and kind of public utilities in or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision. If possible, the locations should be shown on the
vicinity map;
      (9)   Location of any drainage ways or easements in or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision;
      (10)   Topography within and adjacent to the proposed subdivision, if
considered necessary by the Council; and
      (11)   North point, scale, and date of:
         (a)   The names and addresses of all land owners within the proposed
subdivision, the subdivider if other than the owners, and the engineer or
surveyor responsible for laying out the subdivision;
         (b)   Water supply;
         (c)   A brief statement regarding contemplated sewage disposal for the
subdivision; and
         (d)   If, upon investigation by the Council, it is found that
additional information is necessary, it shall be furnished by the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 152.20) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.21 ACTION ON FINAL PLATS READY FOR RECORDING.
   (A)   A subdivision plat, when ready for final approval prior to recording,
shall be substantially in accordance with the approved preliminary plan. Before
approval by the Council, the final plat shall be approved and signed by all
persons set out in the dedication, the mortgagees, if any, and the County
Surveyor, and the signature and the seal of the registered professional
engineer or registered land surveyor responsible for the laying out of the
subdivision. All signatures must be with black India ink. The final plat, when
presented for approval by the Council, shall be accompanied by an exact
duplicate copy, or a photostat copy large enough to be easily compared with the
original. The final plat may contain all or only a portion of the approved
preliminary plan. After the final plat has been filed with the Council, it
shall review the final plat and compare it with the approved preliminary plan
to ascertain whether the final plan coincides substantially to the approved
preliminary plan and with the Council approval of the preliminary plat which
may have been made. The County Surveyor shall examine the plat for accuracy and
completeness, and he or she may collect any fees as are provided by state law
for the review. When the final plat has been reviewed and is in substantial
conformity, the Council shall so certify and the Mayor of the city may then
sign the plat. If the final plat is not in full conformance, it shall be
submitted to the Council for further action. When submitted to the Council for
review, approval of the final plat shall be by majority of those present. In
the absence of the Mayor, his or her duties and powers with respect to the
action on final plats shall be vested in the President of the Council.
   (B)   The subdivider shall, without delay, submit the final plat for
signatures of other public officials required by law. The approval of the final
plat shall be null and void if the plat is not recorded within 30 days after
the date of the last required signature has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 152.21) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.22 TIME LIMIT FOR RECORDING OF PLAT.
   Unless the final plat is recorded by the first day of the seventh month
after the date of final approval by the Council, it shall be resubmitted to the
Council, which may require changes or alterations deemed necessary because of
changed conditions within the general area of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 152.22) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.23 PORTION OF SUBDIVISION MAY BE RECORDED.
   If desired by the subdivider, a portion of an approved plat may be recorded
with the approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.23) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.24 COPIES OF RECORDED PLATS TO BE FURNISHED.
   Within six days after the recording of a subdivision, the owner, or his or
her representative, shall furnish the Council a print made from the
reproduction of the recorded plat.
(Prior Code, § 152.24) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
REGULATIONS
§ 155.35 STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   Streets, roads, or highways shall be in alignment with existing streets in
the vicinity of the proposed subdivision, either by prolongation of existing
centerlines or by connection with suitable curves, shall conform to the
location, alignment, and width as indicated on any official map of streets and
highways now or hereafter adopted by the city. Streets or roads should
intersect at or as near right angles as practicable. These regulations may be
modified where the Council determines that the topography, or the small number
of lots involved, or other unusual conditions, justify the modification.
(Prior Code, § 152.35) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.36 DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   If a parcel of land to be subdivided includes a portion of a right-of-way,
highway, or road, the location of which has been determined, the subdivider
shall dedicate the right-of-way for the purpose of use proposed.
(Prior Code, § 152.36) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.37 DEAD-END STREETS.
   When it appears necessary to continue a street into a future subdivision or
adjacent acreage, streets shall be platted to the boundary of a subdivision
with a turnaround. In all other cases, dead-end streets shall have a turnaround
with a radius of not less than 45 feet to the property line.
(Prior Code, § 152.37) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.38 RADIUS AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   The property line radius at street intersections shall be governed by the
interior angle at the intersection, and will be based on the square root of the
interior angle formed at the intersection of property lines which equals the
radius in feet. The distance shall be increased to the next full foot above the
figure established by the formula. The minimum angle of the intersection shall
be 40 degrees. Sidewalks and curbs shall be laid out from the same radius point
as the property line.
(Prior Code, § 152.38) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.39 STREET GRADES.
   No street grade shall be in excess of 8% unless the Council finds that,
because of topographic conditions, a steeper grade is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 152.39) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.40 RESERVE BLOCK.
   Reserve blocks controlling the access to public ways, or which will not
prove taxable for special improvements, may be required by the Council, but
will not be approved unless the strips are necessary for the protection of the
public welfare or of substantial property rights, or both, and in no case,
unless the land comprising the strips is placed in the name of the city for
disposal and dedication for street or road purposes whenever the disposal or
dedication has the approval of the Council. In no case shall a reserve block be
platted along a right-of-way that is dedicated to the required full width.
(Prior Code, § 152.40) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.41 STREET WIDTHS.
   (A)   When an area within a subdivision is set aside for commercial uses or
where probable future conditions warrant, the Council may require dedication of
streets to a greater width than herein otherwise provided. The street right-of-
way in or along the boundary of a subdivision shall have the following minimum
width, except a boundary street may be half the width where it is apparent that
the other half will be dedicated from adjacent properties:
 
Type of Public Way                       Right-of-Way Width Curb to Curb Width
Collector streets                        60 feet            40 feet
Cul-de-sacs 200 to 400 feet in length    50 feet            30 feet
Cul-de-sacs less than 200 feet in length 45 feet            30 feet
Major streets or arterials               60 feet            40 feet
Minor streets                            60 feet            40 feet
Turnarounds                              45-foot radius     40-foot radius
 
   (B)   Dead-end streets, which may in the future be extended, shall have a
right-of-way and pavement width that will conform to the development pattern
when extended.
(Prior Code, § 152.41) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.42 ADDITIONAL RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS.
   Where topographical requirements necessitate either cuts or fills for the
proper grading of the streets, additional right-of-way widths may be required
to allow all cut and fill slopes to be within the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 152.42) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.43 TWO-LEVEL STREETS.
   Where it is determined that two-level streets best serve hillside tracts,
the right-of-way shall be of sufficient width to provide on each level space
for one sidewalk, a minimum width of 20 feet for pavement, curbs, and drainage
facilities. Between the two street levels and out to the right-of-way lines,
there shall be space for all cut and fill slopes.
(Prior Code, § 152.43) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.44 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All street improvements, including pavement, curbs, sidewalks, and
surface drainage, shall be in accord with the specifications and standards in
the office of the City Recorder/Administrator.
   (B)   Subdivision plans shall not have final approval until the time as the
Council, in its judgment, is satisfied that the following street improvements
will be completed in accord with the specifications and standards set forth in
this section:
      (1)   Clearing and grading to full right-of-way limits;
      (2)   Storm drainage facilities both within and outside of right-of-way
limits;
      (3)   Base materials and pavement for roadways, in place and compacted;
and
      (4)   Curb and gutter, and also portland cement sidewalks; the location
and width thereof shall be determined by the Council and, in making the
determination, the Council shall take into consideration the topography of the
land, the presence of improvements, trees, or other plantings, the type of
street, and the location of sidewalks, if any, in adjacent areas or
subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 152.44) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
BLOCKS AND LOTS
§ 155.55 SUBDIVISION BLOCKS.
   Block lengths and widths shall be determined by the distance and alignment
of existing blocks and streets adjacent to, or in the general vicinity of, a
proposed subdivision, and by topography, adequate lot size, need for, and
direction of, flow of through and local traffic. Blocks shall not exceed 1,200
feet between street lines unless the adjacent layout or special conditions
justify greater length. Except where topographical or other physical features
make it otherwise, block widths shall be not less than 200 or more than 400
feet.
(Prior Code, § 152.55) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.56 MIDBLOCK WALKS.
   Where topographic or other conditions make necessary blocks of unusual
length, the Council may require midblock pedestrian walks on a right-of-way at
least six feet in width which shall be hard surfaced through the block and curb
to curb, in order to provide easy access to schools, parks, or other community
services.
(Prior Code, § 152.56) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.57 LOT SIZE.
   All lots shall have a minimum area of 10,890 square feet and shall have a
minimum front line width of at least 75 feet. In cul-de-sacs, the minimum lot
line fronting the turnaround shall be 50 feet and in no cases shall the lot
width be less than 60 feet at the building line. If topography, drainage, or
other conditions justify, the Council may require a greater area on any or all
lots within a subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 152.57) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.58 CURVED FRONT LOT LINES.
   When front lot lines are on a curve or arc, the front line distance shall be
indicated on the final plat by bearing and chord distance.
(Prior Code, § 152.58) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.59 CORNER LOTS.
   All corner lots should be at least 100 feet wide.
(Prior Code, § 152.59) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.60 LOT LINE.
   Side lot lines shall be as close to right angles to the front street line as
practicable. Unless otherwise approved, rear lot lines shall be not less than
one-half the width of the front lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 152.60) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.61 BUILDING LINES ALONG STREETS.
   The final plat ready for recording shall indicate building lines on each
block of a subdivision. Unless otherwise approved because of some unusual
topographic or other conditions, minimum building lines shall be 20 feet from
the street property line for the entire length of a block facing on a street 60
feet or wider, and also along the width of any block adjacent to a street
having a width of 60 feet or more. When either the front or side line of a lot
is adjacent to a street less than 60 feet in width, the building lines shall be
not less than 50 feet from the centerline of the street. Whenever arterial or
collector streets as shown on the official map project into or across a
proposed subdivision, the building setback line for the streets shall apply if
they are greater than herein specified.
(Prior Code, § 152.61) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.62 PUBLIC SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   Any donation land claim section corner, or other official survey monument
within or on the boundary of a proposed subdivision shall be accurately
referenced to at least two monuments.
(Prior Code, § 152.62) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 155.63 WATER SUPPLY.
   All lots shall be served from an established public water system.
(Prior Code, § 152.63) (Ord. 348, passed 3-20-1972)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference
§ 156.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council does hereby adopt the city zoning and development code by
reference, as set forth in Exhibit A of Ord. 06-515.
(Prior Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 06-515, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 548-2017, passed 9-
14-2017; Ord. 555-2019, passed 1-10-2019; Ord. 560-2022, passed 6-27-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
III.   LAND VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
VI.   FUNDS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
17       3-11-1907   Telephone franchise.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
68       2-23-1910   Electric franchise.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
144      12-5-1916   Electric franchise to Falls City Electric Light and Power
                     Company
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
145      12-5-1916   Contract for franchise granted in Ord. 144.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
155      6-3-1918    Contract for franchise granted in Ord. 156.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
156      6-3-1918    Electric franchise granted to Falls City Electric Light
                     and Power Company.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
159      7-7-1919    Amends Ord. 145.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
160      11-3-1919   Telephone franchise transfer.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
195      4-11-1932   Telephone franchise.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
209      8-1-1950    Electric franchise granted to Mountain States Power
                     Company.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
329      4-6-1970    Electric franchise granted to Pacific Power and Light
                     Company.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
353      4-10-1972   Telephone franchise granted to Pacific Northwest Bell
                     Telephone Company.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
419      6-1-1987    Amends Ord. 353.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
426      6-4-1990    Electric franchise granted to Pacific Corp.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
429      6-4-1990    Amends Ord. 419.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
94-455   3-7-1994    Cable television franchise.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
94-456   4-4-1994    Telephone franchise granted to U.S. West Communications,
                     Inc.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
524-2010 4-27-2010   Electric utility franchise granted to Pacific Corp.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
533-2013 7-13-2013   Solid waste franchise granted to Republic Services.
                   (Prior Code, Chapter 53)
558-2020 3-2-2020    Electric utility franchise extension; franchise originally
                     granted in Ord. 524-2010.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
169      1-16-1922   Annexation of certain tract of land.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
344      11-1-1971   Annexation of property.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table III)
                    
 
TABLE III: LAND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
80       7-21-1910   Vacates a certain part of Bridge Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
133      12-7-1915   Vacates certain street in Hood View Addition.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
134      12-7-1915   Opens K Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
149      6-7-1917    Vacates a part of Eighth Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
150      8-6-1917    Vacates part of Ninth Street and Tenth Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
175      5-14-1923   Vacates part of Seventh Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
180      1-11-1926   Vacates portion of Pine Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
188      9-8-1930    Vacates portions of Mill Street, Boundary Street, and an
                     alley.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
189      12-7-1931   Vacates a portion of Fairoaks Streets.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
192      6-6-1932    Vacates a portion of Prospect Avenue.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
217      3-5-1951    Vacates certain property.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
301      2-1-1965    Vacates certain alleys.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
327      9-9-1969    Vacates a portion of K Streets.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
331      9-8-1970    Vacates various alleys.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
332      1-4-1971    Vacates the northern 25 feet of Bryant Street between
                     Fifth Street and Sixth Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
358      12-6-1972   Vacates a portion of Tice Avenue and an alley.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
376      10-4-1976   Vacates a portion of an alley.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
381      5-2-1977    Vacates a portion of Prospect Avenue between Sixth Street
                     and Seventh Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
388      2-5-1979    Vacates a portion of Eighth Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
404      5- -1983    Vacates a portion of Alan Street.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
96-463   9-16-1996   Vacates a portion of an alley.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
509      5-2-2005    Vacates a public right-of-way.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
07-517   7-2-2007    Vacates specified alleys.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
08-520   5-5-2008    Vacates a specified alley.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
522-2010 2-10-2010   Vacates a portion of Old County Road.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
545-2017 8-10-2017   Rezoning certain property from Public Assembly/
                     Institutional (PAI) to Commercial/Residential (CR).
546-2017 8-10-2017   Rezoning certain property from Public Assembly/
                     Institutional (PAI) to Residential (R).
547-2017 8-10-2017   Rezoning certain property from Residential (R) to Public
                     Open Space (P).
554-2018 9-13-2018   Rezoning certain property from Public Assembly/
                     Institutional (PAI) to Commercial/Residential (CR).
                    
 
TABLE V: STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
498      9-10-2001   Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
501      11-26-2001  Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
508      1-3-2005    Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
510      5-2-2005    Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
511      2-6-2006    Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
06-514   10-16-2006  Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
08-518   4-7-2008    Address and/or name change.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
529-2012 1-9-2012    New address.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
531-2013 3-14-2013   New address.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
542-2016 10-13-2016  New address.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table IV)
552-2018 4-12-2018   Establishing a new address for a vacant lot located on Map
                     8620AA.
553-2018 8-23-2018   Establishing a new address for a vacant lot located on Map
                     8.6.21BD.
                    
 
TABLE VI: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
214      1-2-1951    Establishment of the Firefighter’s Fund.
                   (Prior Code, § 34.04)
254      9-9-1957    Establishment of the Equipment Purchase and General Repair
                     Fund.
                   (Prior Code, § 34.03)
414      7-1-1985    Establishment of the Ambulance Purchase Sinking Fund.
                   (Prior Code, § 34.02)
415      7-1-1985    Establishment of the QRT Sinking Fund.
                   (Prior Code, § 34.01)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
O.R.S. Cite Code Section
O.R.S. Cite               Code Section
Chapter 10                34.02
10.010 through 10.125     34.02
10.061                    34.02
Chapter 105               90.48
Chapters 161 through 169  130.001
166.291                   130.035
190.240                   111.04
192.345(5)                33.26
192.455(1)                30.006
192.660(2)(b)             30.190
221.354                   34.02
221.359                   90.99;
                          91.99
221.360                   90.99;
                          91.99
221.380                   90.99;
                          91.99
221.390                   90.99;
                          91.99
283.140                   111.04
401.025                   111.04
448.119 et seq.           52.01
454.225                   51.27
475C.770 through 475C.919 33.16
480.111                   130.037
480.120                   130.037
480.140(1)                130.037
480.150                   130.037
480.200 through 480.290   130.037
496.004                   90.02
697.105                   33.24
Chapters 801 through 826  70.01
801.260                   90.29
Chapter 815               90.12
815.250                   90.29
Chapter 816               90.12
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code               2023 Code
10.19                    31.03
31.01                    31.01
31.02                    31.02
32.01.010                32.001
32.01.020                32.002
32.01.030                32.003
32.01.040                32.004
32.01.050                32.005
32.01.060                32.006
32.01.070                32.007
32.01.080                32.008
32.02.010                32.020
32.02.020                32.021
32.02.030                32.022
32.02.040                32.023
32.02.050                32.024
32.02.060                32.025
32.02.070                32.026
32.03.010                32.040
32.03.020                32.041
32.03.030                32.042
32.03.040                32.043
32.03.050                32.044
32.03.060                32.045
32.03.070                32.046
32.03.070                32.106
32.04.010                32.060
32.04.020                32.061
32.04.050                32.064
32.04.060                32.065
32.04.070                32.066
32.05.010                32.080
32.05.020                32.081
32.05.030                32.082
32.05.040                32.083
32.05.050                32.084
32.05.060                32.085
32.05.070                32.086
32.06.010                32.100
32.06.020                32.101
32.06.030                32.102
32.06.040                32.103
32.06.050                32.104
32.06.060                32.105
33.01                    34.01
33.02                    34.02
34.01                    TSO Table VI
34.02                    TSO Table VI
34.03                    TSO Table VI
34.04                    TSO Table VI
34.06                    33.15
34.08                    33.16
34.10                    33.17
34.12                    33.18
34.14                    33.19
34.16                    33.20
34.18                    33.21
34.20                    33.22
34.22                    33.23
34.24                    33.24
34.26                    33.25
34.28                    33.26
34.30                    33.27
34.32                    33.28
35.01                    31.15
35.02                    31.16
35.03                    31.17
50.01                    51.01
50.02                    51.02
50.03                    51.03
50.04                    51.04
50.05                    51.05
50.06                    51.06
50.07                    51.07
50.08                    51.08
50.09                    51.09
50.10                    51.10
50.25                    51.25
50.26                    51.26
50.27                    51.27
50.28                    51.28
50.29                    51.29
50.99                    51.99
51.01                    50.15
51.02                    50.16
51.03                    50.17
51.04                    50.18
51.05                    50.19
51.06                    50.20
51.07                    50.21
51.08                    50.22
51.09                    50.23
51.10                    50.24
51.11                    50.25
51.12                    50.26
51.13                    50.27
51.14                    50.28
51.15                    50.29
51.16                    50.30
51.17                    50.31
51.18                    50.32
51.19                    50.33
51.20                    50.34
51.35                    50.01
51.99                    50.99
52.01                    52.01
52.02                    52.02
52.03                    52.03
52.04                    52.04
52.05                    52.05
52.06                    52.06
52.07                    52.07
52.08                    52.08
70.01                    70.01
70.02                    33.01
70.03                    70.30
70.04                    70.15
70.05                    70.16
70.06                    70.45
70.99                    70.45
                         90.01-
                         90.12;
                         90.30;
                         90.45-
                         90.49;
                         90.99;
                         91.01;
90.01                    91.02;
                         91.15-
                         91.20;
                         91.35-
                         91.37;
                         91.99;
                         152.15-
                         152.17
91.01                    152.01
91.02                    152.02
91.03                    152.03
91.04                    152.04
91.15                    152.30
91.16                    152.31
91.17                    152.32
91.18                    152.33
91.19                    152.34
91.20                    152.35
91.21                    152.36
91.22                    152.37
91.23                    152.38
91.24                    152.39
91.25                    152.40
91.26                    152.41
91.27                    152.42
91.28                    152.43
91.29                    152.44
91.30                    152.45
91.31                    152.46
91.32                    152.47
91.33                    152.48
92.01                    92.01
93.01                    90.13
93.02                    130.055
93.99                    90.99;
                         130.999
110.01                   110.01
110.02                   110.02
110.03                   110.03
110.04                   110.04
110.05                   110.05
110.06                   110.06
110.07                   110.07
110.08                   110.08
110.09                   110.09
110.10                   110.10
110.99                   110.99
130.001                  130.001
130.002                  130.002
130.003                  130.003
130.015                  130.015
130.016                  130.016
130.017                  130.017
130.018                  130.018
130.019                  130.019
130.021                  130.021
130.035                  130.035
130.036                  130.036
130.037                  130.037
130.050                  130.050
130.051                  130.051
130.052                  130.052
130.053                  130.053
130.054                  130.054
130.065                  130.070
130.066                  130.071
130.080                  130.085
130.081                  130.086
130.082                  130.087
130.083                  130.088
130.084                  130.089
130.085                  130.090
130.100                  91.03
130.101                  91.04
130.102                  91.21
130.999                  130.999
150.01                   154.01
150.02                   154.02
150.03                   154.03
150.04                   154.04
150.05                   154.05
150.20                   154.20
150.21                   154.21
150.22                   154.22
150.35                   154.35
150.36                   154.36
150.37                   154.37
151.01                   151.01
151.02                   151.02
151.03                   151.03
151.04                   151.04
151.05                   151.05
151.06                   151.06
151.99                   151.99
152.01                   155.01
152.02                   155.02
152.03                   155.03
152.04                   155.04
152.05                   155.05
152.06                   155.06
152.20                   155.20
152.21                   155.21
152.22                   155.22
152.23                   155.23
152.24                   155.24
152.35                   155.35
152.36                   155.36
152.37                   155.37
152.38                   155.38
152.39                   155.39
152.40                   155.40
152.41                   155.41
152.42                   155.42
152.43                   155.43
152.44                   155.44
152.55                   155.55
152.56                   155.56
152.57                   155.57
152.58                   155.58
152.59                   155.59
152.60                   155.60
152.61                   155.61
152.62                   155.62
152.63                   155.63
153.01                   150.01
154.01                   156.01
155.01                   150.02
156.01                   150.03
157.01                   150.04
Chapter 53               TSO Table I
Chapter 71, Schedule I   Ch. 71, Schd. I
Chapter 71, Schedule II  Ch. 71, Schd. II
Chapter 71, Schedule III Ch. 71, Schd. IIII
Chapter 72, Schedule I   Ch. 72, Schd. I
Chapter 72, Schedule II  Ch. 72, Schd. II
Chapter 72, Schedule III Ch. 72, Schd. III
Chapter 72, Schedule IV  Ch. 72, Schd. IV
Chapter 72, Schedule V   Ch. 72, Schd. V
Chapter 151, Appendix A  151.07
Chapter 158              150.05
Chapter 159              150.06
TSO Table I              TSO Table III
TSO Table II             TSO Table I
TSO Table III            TSO Table II
TSO Table IV             TSO Table V
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
17       3-11-1907   TSO Table I
68       2-23-1910   TSO Table I
80       7-21-1910   TSO Table III
101      4-1-1912    130.055;
                     130.999
133      12-7-1915   TSO Table III
134      12-7-1915   TSO Table III
144      12-5-1916   TSO Table I
145      12-5-1916   TSO Table I
149      6-7-1917    TSO Table III
150      8-6-1917    TSO Table III
155      6-3-1918    TSO Table I
156      6-3-1918    TSO Table I
159      7-7-1919    TSO Table I
160      11-3-1919   TSO Table I
169      1-16-1922   TSO Table II
175      5-14-1923   TSO Table III
180      1-11-1926   TSO Table III
188      9-8-1930    TSO Table III
189      12-7-1931   TSO Table III
195      4-11-1932   TSO Table I
192      6-6-1932    TSO Table III
199      12-6-1937   70.45;
                     70.99
209      8-1-1950    TSO Table I
214      1-2-1951    TSO Table VI
217      3-5-1951    TSO Table III
254      9-9-1957    TSO Table VI
                     Ch. 71, Schd. I;
                     Ch. 71, Schd. III;
267      8-3-1959    Ch. 72, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. III;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. IV
269      12-7-1959   34.02
277      4-3-1961    70.99;
                     Ch. 71, Schd. III
279      11-6-1961   Ch. 71, Schd. I
280      3-5-1962    Ch. 71, Schd. I
285      11-5-1962   90.13;
                     90.99
289      11-4-1963   Ch. 71, Schd. I;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. III
290      1-6-1964    Ch. 72, Schd. I
294      5-5-1964    Ch. 71, Schd. I
297      7-13-1964   70.16;
                     70.99
301      2-1-1965    TSO Table III
302      2-1-1965    Ch. 71, Schd. I
309      7-11-1966   Ch. 71, Schd. I
310      8-1-1966    70.15;
                     70.99
322      11-4-1968   Ch. 71, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. V
327      9-9-1969    TSO Table III
328      1-5-1970    70.30;
                     70.99
329A     2-2-1970    Ch. 72, Schd. I
329      4-6-1970    TSO Table I
331      9-8-1970    TSO Table III
332      1-4-1971    TSO Table III
333      2-8-1971    152.30-
                     152.48
334      2-8-1971    Ch. 72, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. III
337      3-8-1971    Ch. 72, Schd. II
341      7-12-1971   33.01
343      8-2-1971    Ch. 71, Schd. I
344      11-1-1971   TSO Table II
                     110.01-
347      1-3-1972    110.10;
                     110.99
351      2-21-1972   31.02
                     155.01-
                     155.06;
                     155.20-
348      3-20-1972   155.24;
                     155.35-
                     153.44;
                     155.55-
                     155.63
353      4-10-1972   TSO Table I
356      8-22-1972   Ch. 71, Schd. I
358      12-6-1972   TSO Table III
363      8-5-1974    Ch. 71, Schd. I
                     151.01-
364      9-9-1974    151.06;
                     151.99
365      3-3-1975    151.07
                     91.03;
                     91.04;
                     91.21;
                     130.001-
                     130.003;
                     130.015-
                     130.019;
                     130.020;
366      3-3-1975    130.035-
                     130.037;
                     130.050-
                     130.054;
                     130.070;
                     130.071;
                     130.085-
                     130.090;
                     130.999
371      12-1-1975   31.17
376      10-4-1976   TSO Table III
380      4-4-1977    31.16
381      5-2-1977    TSO Table III
384      11-7-1977   Ch. 71, Schd. I
388      2-5-1979    TSO Table III
391      5-8-1979    150.01
393      10-8-1979   150.01
395      5-5-1980    50.01
396      5-5-1980    31.15
399      7-7-1980    Ch. 71, Schd. II
401      4-6-1981    152.04
404      5- -1983    TSO Table III
411      6-4-1985    51.25-
                     51.29
414      7-1-1985    TSO Table VI
415      7-1-1985    TSO Table VI
                     154.01-
                     154.05;
417      5-4-1987    154.20-
                     154.22;
                     154.35-
                     154.37
419      6-1-1987    TSO Table I
                     51.01-
420      10-5-1987   51.10;
                     51.99
426      6-4-1990    TSO Table I
429      6-4-1990    TSO Table I
93-452   10-7-1992   152.03
94-455   3-7-1994    TSO Table I
94-456   4-4-1994    TSO Table I
94-458   10-5-1994   152.02
94-459   11-15-1994  31.01
96-463   9-16-1996   TSO Table III
97-464   3-3-1997    52.01-
                     52.08
97-465   4-7-1997    152.01;
                     152.02
97-466   10-6-1997   70.01;
                     70.99
97-467   10-6-1997   130.001;
                     130.999
                     50.15-
98-471   5-4-1998    50.34;
                     50.99
99-474   10-25-1999  70.01;
                     70.99
99-475   10-25-1999  130.001;
                     130.999
476      1-10-2000   52.01;
                     52.02
477      1-31-2000   50.19;
                     50.25
478      1-31-2000   31.01
482      5-22-2000   31.01
484      6-13-2000   34.02
486      7-10-2000   34.01
488      10-9-2000   92.01
492      4-9-2001    51.03
493      5-2-2001    50.23
495      7-30-2001   150.01
496      7-30-2001   150.01
497      7-30-2001   150.01
498      9-10-2001   TSO Table V
500      10-8-2001   Ch. 71, Schd. I
501      11-26-2001  TSO Table V
502      1-28-2002   110.01;
                     110.03
503      1-28-2002   130.001
504      1-28-2002   70.01
502-B    1-21-2003   51.03
5-03     7-21-2003   150.01
508      1-3-2005    TSO Table V
509      5-2-2005    TSO Table III
510      5-2-2005    TSO Table V
511      2-6-2006    TSO Table V
                     90.01-
                     90.12;
                     90.30;
                     90.45-
                     90.49;
                     90.99;
                     91.01;
06-512   7-5-2006    91.02;
                     91.15-
                     91.20;
                     91.30-
                     91.32;
                     91.99;
                     152.15-
                     152.17
06-514   10-16-2006  TSO Table V
06-515   11-6-2006   156.01
                     90.01-
                     90.12;
                     90.30;
                     90.45-
                     90.49;
                     90.99;
                     91.01;
07-516   7-2-2007    91.02;
                     91.15-
                     91.20;
                     91.30-
                     91.32;
                     91.99;
                     152.15-
                     152.17
07-517   7-2-2007    TSO Table III
08-518   4-7-2008    TSO Table V
08-520   5-5-2008    TSO Table III
                     90.01-
                     90.12;
                     90.30;
                     90.45-
                     90.49;
                     90.99;
                     91.01;
08-519   5-12-2008   91.02;
                     91.15-
                     91.20;
                     91.30-
                     91.32;
                     91.99;
                     152.15-
                     152.17
522-2010 2-10-2010   TSO Table III
523-2010 3-9-2010    32.105
524-2010 4-27-2010   TSO Table I
525-2010 8-10-2010   150.02
526-2011 2-8-2011    32.105
527-2011 12-12-2011  Ch. 72, Schd. I
528-2011 12-12-2011  Ch. 71, Schd. I
529-2012 1-9-2012    TSO Table V
531-2013 3-14-2013   TSO Table V
532-2013 7-11-2013   150.03
533-2013 7-13-2013   TSO Table I
535-2014 4-10-2014   150.04
541-2014 6-11-2014   33.28
538-2014 7-10-2014   32.105
539-2014 10-9-2014   33.28
540-2014 11-13-2014  31.01
541-2015 6-11-2015   33.18
542-2016 10-13-2016  TSO Table V
543-2017 4-13-2017   32.081
544-2017 8-10-2017   32.008
545-2017 8-10-2017   TSO Table IV
546-2017 8-10-2017   TSO Table IV
547-2017 8-10-2017   TSO Table IV
548-2017 9-14-2017   156.01
549-2017 11-9-2017   31.03
550-2017 11-9-2017   150.05
551-2017 12-14-2017  150.06
552-2018 4-12-2018   TSO Table V
553-2018 8-23-2018   TSO Table V
554-2018 9-13-2018   TSO Table IV
555-2019 1-10-2019   156.01
                     90.25-
556-2019 2-14-2019   90.29;
                     90.99
558-2020 3-2-2020    TSO Table I
559-2020 7-13-2020   32.062;
                     32.063
                     111.01-
                     111.07;
                     111.20-
                     111.23;
                     111.35-
557-2019 12-9-2020   111.60;
                     111.99;
                     153.01-
                     153.15;
                     153.30-
                     153.34
560-2022 6-27-2022   156.01
561-2023 9-11-2023   90.02;
                     90.14
562-2023 11-6-2023   Ch. 72, Schd. I
564-2023 12-4-2023   Ch. 72, Schd. I
565-2024 3-4-2024    90.15
566-2024 6-3-2024    52.01-
                     52.08
                    
 
 
