GLENDALE, OREGON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 01-2023, passed 7-10-2023 and
Res. 03-2024, passed 5-13-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE
Douglas County, Oregon
PREAMBLE
We, the people of Glendale, Douglas County, Oregon, in order to avail ourselves
of self-determination in municipal affairs to the fullest extent now or
hereafter possible under the constitutions and laws of the United States and
the State of Oregon, through this Charter confer upon the City the following
powers, subject it to the following restrictions, prescribe for it the
following procedures and governmental structure, and repeal all previous
charter provisions.
CHAPTER I:
NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.
   Title of Enactment. This enactment may be referred to as the Glendale
Charter of 2002.
Section 2.
   Name of City. The City of Glendale continues under this charter to be a
municipal corporation with the name “City of Glendale.”
Section 3.
   Boundaries. The city includes all territory within its boundaries at the
time this Charter becomes effective and all territory added or annexed at such
later time pursuant to the laws of the State of Oregon. The custodian of the
city’s records shall keep an accurate, current description of the boundaries
and make a copy of it available for public inspection in the administrative
offices of the city during regular office hours.
CHAPTER II:
POWERS
Section 4.
   Powers of The City. The city shall have all powers which the constitutions,
statutes, and common law of the United States and of the State of Oregon now or
hereafter expressly or implied grant or allow the city, as fully as though this
charter specifically enumerated each of those powers.
Section 5.
   Construction of Charter. In this charter, no specification of a power is
exclusive or restricts authority that the city would have if the power were not
specified. The charter shall be liberally construed so that the city may
exercise fully all power possible under the laws of the United States and the
State of Oregon.
Section 6.
   Distribution of Powers. Except as this charter prescribes otherwise, and as
the Oregon Constitution reserves legislative power to the voters of the city
through the initiative and referendum power, all powers of the city are vested
in the council.
CHAPTER III:
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section 7.
   Council. The council shall consist of a mayor and six councilors nominated
and elected from the city at large or, in case of one or more vacancies in the
council, the council members whose offices are not vacant.
Section 8.
   City Manager and Municipal Judge. The council may appoint a city manager and
may appoint a municipal judge.
Section 9.
   Councilors. The term of office for each councilor shall be four years. At
the general election in November 2000, and every four years thereafter, three
councilors shall be elected, each for a four-year term of office. At the
general election in November 2002, and every four years thereafter, three
council members shall be elected, each for a term of four years. The term of
office for each councilor who is in office when this Charter becomes effective
shall be deemed the term of office for which the councilor has been elected
before adoption of the charter.
Section 10.
   Mayor. The term of office for mayor shall be two years. The term of office
for the mayor who is in office when this charter becomes effective shall
continue until the next general election. At this and each subsequent general
election, the mayor shall be elected for a two-year term.
Section 11.
   Terms of Office. The term of office for an elective officer who is elected
at a general election begins at the first council meeting of the year
immediately after the election and continues until the successor to the office
assumes the office.
Section 12.
   Appointive Offices. A majority of the council may create, abolish, or
combine appointive city officers and, except as the majority prescribe
otherwise, fill such offices by appointment and vacate them by removal.
Section 13.
   Qualification of Officers. No person shall be eligible for elective office
of the city unless at the time of election that person shall be a qualified
elector under the Oregon law and shall have resided in the City during the
twelve months immediately before being elected or appointed to fill a vacancy
in the office. In this section “city” means area inside the city limits at the
time of the election or appointment.
Section 14.
   Rules. The council shall, by ordinance, prescribe rules to govern its
meetings and proceedings.
Section 15.
   Meetings. The council shall meet in the city regularly at least once a month
at a time and place designated by the council rules and may meet at other times
in accordance with the rules.
Section 16.
   Quorum. A majority of the sitting members of the council shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a small number of the council may meet and compel
the attendance of absent councilors as prescribed by council rule.
Section 17.
   Record of Proceedings. A record of council proceedings shall be kept and
authenticated in a manner prescribed by the council.
Section 18.
   Mayor’s Functions at Council Meetings.
   (1)   When present at council meetings the mayor shall:
      (a)   Preside over deliberations of the council,
      (b)   Preserve order,
      (c)   Enforce council rules, and
      (d)   Determine the order of business under the rules.
   (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the mayor may
temporarily cease to chair a council meeting and delegate the functions
described in subsection (1) to the council president.
   (3)   The mayor is a voting member of the council and has no veto power.
Section 19.
   Council President. At its first meeting after this Charter becomes
effective, and thereafter at its first meeting at each general election, the
Council, by ballot, shall elect a president from its membership. The council
president shall preside over council meetings in event of the mayor’s absence.
Whenever the mayor is unable, on account of absence, illness or other cause, to
perform the functions of the office, the council president shall act as the
mayor.
Section 20.
   Vote Required. Except as this Charter prescribes otherwise, the express
concurrence of a majority of a quorum of the council is necessary to decide a
question before the council.
Section 21.
   Vacancies.
   (1)   The office of a member of the council shall automatically become
vacant upon the member’s:
      (a)   Death,
      (b)   Adjudicated incompetence or
      (c)   Recall from the office.
   (2)   The office of a member of the council shall also become vacant when
the council declares the office vacant because of the member’s:
      (a)   Failure, following election or appointment to the office, to
qualify for the office within ten days after the time for his or her term of
office to begin,
      (b)   Absence from the city for 30 days without the council’s consent or
from all meetings of the council within a 60-day period.
      (c)   Ceasing to reside in the city,
      (d)   Ceasing to be a qualified elector under Oregon law,
      (e)   Conviction of a federal or state offense punishable by loss of
liberty, or
      (f)   Resignation from the office.
Section 22.
   Vacancies: Filling. A vacancy in the council shall be filled by appointment
by a majority of the council. The appointee’s term of office runs from the time
of his or her qualifying for the office after the appointment until a successor
has been elected and qualified at the next following November election. The
successor so qualified shall then serve for the duration of the unexpired term
of the council member who vacated office. During a council member’s disability
to serve on the council or during a member’s absence from the city, a majority
of the other council members may fill the vacancy by appointment pro tem.
CHAPTER IV:
POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
Section 23.
   Mayor. The mayor shall sign all approved records of proceedings of the
council. The mayor shall have the power, subject to confirmation by the
council, to appoint members of committees established by council rules.
Section 24.
   City Manager.
   (1)   The city manager is the administrative head of the city government.
   (2)   A majority of the council may appoint and may remove the manager. The
appointment shall be without regard to political considerations and solely on
the basis of administrative qualifications.
   (3)   The manager need not reside in the city or the State of Oregon when
appointed.
   (4)   Upon accepting the appointment, the manager shall furnish the city a
bond in an amount and with a surety approved by the council. The city shall pay
the bond premium.
   (5)   The manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and may be
removed at the discretion of the council.
   (6)   The manager shall:
      (a)   Attend all council meeting unless excused by the council or mayor,
      (b)   Keep the council advised of the affairs and needs of the city,
      (c)   See that the provisions of all ordinances are administered to the
satisfaction of the council,
      (d)   See that all terms of franchises, leases, contracts, permits, and
privileges granted by the city are fulfilled,
      (e)   Appoint, discipline and remove employees,
      (f)   Supervise and control the manager’s appointees in their service to
the city,
      (g)   Organize and reorganize the departmental structure of city
government as needed,
      (h)   Prepare and transmit to the council an annual city budget,
      (i)   Supervise city contracts,
      (j)   Supervise operations of all city-owned public utilities and
property; and
      (k)   Perform other duties as the council prescribes consistently with
this charter.
   (7)   The manager may not control:
      (a)   The council;
      (b)   The municipal judge in the exercise of the judge’s judicial
functions; or
      (c)   Except as the council authorizes, appointive personnel of the city
whom the manager does not appoint.
   (8)   The manager and other personnel whom the council designates may sit
with the council but may not vote on questions before it. The manager may take
part in all council discussions.
   (9)   When the manager is absent from the city or disabled from acting as
manager, or when the office of manager becomes vacant, the council may appoint
a manager pro tem, who has the powers and duties of a manager, except that the
manager pro tem may appoint or remove personnel only with approval of the
council. No person may be manager pro tem for more than six consecutive months.
   (10)   Except in council meetings, no council member may directly or
indirectly, by suggestion or otherwise, attempt to influence the manager or a
candidate for the office of the manager in the appointment, discipline, or
removal of personnel or in decisions regarding city property or contracts. Any
councilor violating this prohibition may be removed from office by a court of
competent jurisdiction. In council meetings, members of the council may discuss
with, or suggest to, the manager anything pertinent to City affairs.
Section 25.
   Municipal Court.
   (1)   The office of municipal judge shall be filled by the council by
appointment, of which the appointee shall hold within the city at a place and
time that the council specifies, a court known as the Municipal Court for the
City of Glendale, Douglas County, Oregon.
   (2)   Except as this Charter or ordinance prescribes to the contrary,
proceedings of the court shall conform to general laws of the State of Oregon
governing justices of the peace and justice courts.
   (3)   All area within the city and, to the extent provided by Oregon law,
areas outside the city within the control of the city is within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court.
   (4)   The municipal court has jurisdiction over every ordinance prescribing
a penalty, may impose penalties, enforce forfeitures or other sanctions which
such ordinances may prescribe.
   (5)   The municipal judge shall have such powers as may be conferred upon
municipal courts by the Oregon Constitution, the laws of the State of Oregon
and ordinances of the city.
   (6)   The council may authorize the municipal judge to appoint municipal
judges pro tem for terms of office set by the judge or the council.
   (7)   Notwithstanding this section, the council may transfer some or all of
the functions of the municipal court to a court of competent jurisdiction of
the State of Oregon.
CHAPTER V:
PERSONNEL
Section 26.
   Compensation. The council shall prescribe the compensation of city officers.
The council may prescribe a plan for reimbursing city personnel for expenses
that they incur in serving the city.
Section 27.
   Oath. Before assuming city office, an officer shall take an oath or shall
affirm that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of the office and
support the constitution and laws of the United States and the State of Oregon
and the charter and ordinances of the City of Glendale.
CHAPTER VI:
ELECTIONS
Section 28.
   State Law. Except as this charter or ordinance prescribes to the contrary, a
city election shall conform to general laws of the State of Oregon applicable
to elections. In event of a tie vote for candidates for elective office, the
successful candidate shall be determined by a public drawing of lots in a
manner prescribed by the council.
Section 29.
   Nominations. A person may be nominated in a manner prescribed by general
ordinance to run for an elective office of the city.
CHAPTER VII:
ORDINANCES
Section 30.
   Ordaining Clause. The ordaining clause of all ordinances shall be “the City
of Glendale ordains as follows”.
Section 31.
   Adoption by Council.
   (1)   Except as this section provides to the contrary, every ordinance of
the council shall, before being put upon its final passage, be read fully and
distinctly in open council meeting on two different days.
   (2)   Except as this section provides to the contrary, an ordinance may be
enacted at a single meeting of the council by unanimous vote of all council
members present, upon being read first in full and then by title.
   (3)   Except as this section provides to the contrary, an ordinance may be
enacted at a single meeting of the council by reading by title if:
      (a)   No council member present at the reading requests to have the
ordinance be read in full and
      (b)   At least one week before the reading:
         (i)   A copy of the ordinance is provided for each council member,
         (ii)   Three copies of the ordinance are available for public
inspection in the office of custodian of city records, and
         (iii)   Notice of availability of copies is given by written notice
posted at the city hall and two other public places in the city not later than
one week before the first reading of the ordinance.
   (4)   An ordinance read by title only has no legal effect if it differs
substantially from its terms as it was filed prior to the reading, unless each
section so differing is read fully and distinctly in open council meeting
before the council adopts the ordinance.
   (5)   Upon the adoption of the ordinance, the ayes and nays of the council
members shall be entered in the record of council proceedings.
   (6)   After adoption of an ordinance, the custodian of city records shall
endorse it with its date of adoption and the endorser’s name and title of
office.
Section 32.
   Effective Date. A non-emergency ordinance takes effect on the thirtieth day
after its adoption or on such later date as the ordinance may prescribe. An
ordinance adopted to meet an emergency may take effect as soon as adopted.
CHAPTER VIII:
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section 33.
   Procedure. The procedure for making, altering, vacating, or abandoning a
public improvement shall be governed by general ordinance or, to the extent not
so governed, by applicable state law. Proposed action on a public improvement
that is not declared by two-thirds of the council present to be needed at once
because of an emergency shall be suspended for six months upon remonstrances by
owner of land to be specially assessed for the improvement. The number of
owners necessary to suspend the action shall be prescribed by general
ordinance. A second such remonstrance suspends the action only with the consent
of the council.
Section 34.
   Special Assessments. The procedure for fixing, levying, and collecting
special assessments against real property for public improvements or other
public services shall be governed by general ordinance.
Section 35.
   Liens. All city liens, whether for assessment for local improvement,
nuisance abatement or otherwise, shall have priority over all other liens of
whatsoever nature, except the liens of the U.S. Government or the State of
Oregon.
CHAPTER IX:
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 36.
   Debt. The city’s indebtedness may not exceed debt limits imposed by state
law. A city officer or employee who creates or officially approves indebtedness
in excess of this limitation is liable for the excess. A charter amendment is
not required to authorize city indebtedness.
Section 37.
   Continuation of Ordinances. Insofar as consistent with this charter, all
ordinances in force, comprehensive land use plans adopted and all franchises
granted when this charter takes effect shall remain in full force and effect
until amended or repealed.
Section 38.
   Repeal. All charter provisions adopted before the effective date of this
charter are hereby repealed.
Section 39.
   Severability. The terms of this charter are severable. If a part of the
charter is held invalid, that invalidity does not affect another part of the
charter, except as the logical relation between the two parts so requires.
Section 40.
   Effective Date. This charter shall take effect November 5, 2002.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Glendale shall be
designated as the City of Glendale, Oregon, Code of Ordinances and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Glendale,
Oregon.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Douglas County, Oregon, in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oregon.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, that
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of that chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 161, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 170, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 180, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-
1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ORS 192.410) (Ord. 180, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 185, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see ORS 192.420
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no other
specific penalty is provided shall be punished by a civil fine not to exceed
$500, subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this code which is identical to
a state statute containing a lesser penalty shall be punished by the penalty
prescribed by state statute.
   (C)   Each calendar date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL RULES AND PROCEDURES
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Court costs
   
30.02   Bonds provided by city officials
   
30.03   Minimum signatures for nominating petition for elected offices
Cross-reference:
   City Council Rules and Procedures, see
Ch. 31
   City Organizations, see
Ch. 32
   Emergency Management, see
Ch. 33
§ 30.01 COURT COSTS.
   In all violations involving any ordinance of the city wherein it is provided
that a civil penalty may be assessed, the city shall have the further power to
assess in each case, in addition to any civil fine, the sum of $5 as costs in
the proceedings.
(Ord. 206, passed 3-7-1966)
§ 30.02 BONDS PROVIDED BY CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The following officer shall furnish official bonds in the following
amount: Recorder - $1,000.
   (B)   The bond given by a city official shall be a bond in standard form
with good and sufficient surety or a bond executed by a surety company
authorized to do business in this state, conditioned upon the faithful
accounting of all money received by the official in his or her official
capacity, and the faithful performance of all his or her official duties.
   (C)   The reasonable compensation payable to lawfully authorized surety
companies as premiums on the official bonds of city officers shall be paid by
the city out of the General Fund.
   (D)   The bonds of the officials shall be approved as to form by the City
Attorney.
   (E)   (1)   The bond having been duly approved as herein provided shall be
placed on file in the Recorder’s office before the official shall assume his or
her duties save and except the bond of the Recorder, which shall be placed in
the care and custody of the Mayor, to be duly kept and retained by him or her.
      (2)   (a)   Failure to file an official bond as herein provided within
one day from the first day of the term of office shall be deemed to render the
office vacant.
         (b)   The vacancy shall be declared by the City Council and filled in
the manner provided in the Charter for filling vacancies in office.
(Ord. 137, passed 3-3-1941)
§ 30.03 MINIMUM SIGNATURES FOR NOMINATING PETITION FOR ELECTED OFFICES.
   The minimum number of signatures on a nominating petition for a city
elective office shall equal the greater of ten signatures of qualified electors
or 1% of the votes cast in the electoral district for all candidates for
Governor at the last general election at which a candidate for Governor was
elected to a full term.
(Ord. 04-2008, passed 7-14-2008)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL RULES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Authority
   
31.001   Authority; generally
   
31.002   Purpose
   
31.003   Adoption and amendment of rules
   
31.004   Presiding officer; designated
   
31.005   Presiding officer; powers and duties
   
31.006   Signing of documents
Meetings
   
31.020   Regular meetings
   
31.021   Special meetings
   
31.022   Executive session
   
31.023   Confidentiality
   
31.024   Quorum
   
31.025   Agenda
   
31.026   Staff attendance at meetings
   
31.027   Minutes
   
31.028   Order of business
   
31.029   Discussion of business
   
31.030   Motion procedure
   
31.031   Motion to postpone or table
   
31.032   Motion to recess or adjourn
   
31.033   Point of order
   
31.034   Procedure in absence of rules
   
31.035   Effect and suspension of rules
   
31.036   Attendance of Council members
   
31.037   Seating arrangements
   
31.038   Right to speak
   
31.039   Dissents and protests
   
31.040   Decorum
   
31.041   Question of personal privilege
   
31.042   Government standards and practices
   
31.043   Voting requirements
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.055   Preparation and introduction
   
31.056   Distribution of copies
   
31.057   Reading at Council meetings
   
31.058   Effective date
   
31.059   Posting
Communication with Council
   
31.070   Oral communications
   
31.071   Written communications
   
31.072   Public hearings
   
31.073   Council-staff relations
   
31.074   Complaints
AUTHORITY
§ 31.001 AUTHORITY; GENERALLY.
   These rules are adopted pursuant to
Section 14 of the City Charter, which requires that the Council adopt rules
governing its meetings and procedures by general ordinance.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.002 PURPOSE.
   The rules set forth in this chapter are adopted for the purpose of providing
guidance for Council action, providing fair and open deliberation on all
questions before the Council, expediting Council business and ensuring good
relationships between the Council and the city staff.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.003 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be amended or new rules adopted by ordinance. Any proposed
changes shall be distributed to the Councilors in advance and considered under
other business on the regular Council agenda.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.004 PRESIDING OFFICER; DESIGNATED.
   The Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the Council President, shall be
the presiding officer at all meetings. The Council President shall be elected
at the first meeting following the seating of any new duly elected members. In
the case of the absence of the Mayor and the Council President, the City
Manager shall call the meeting to order and the Council shall elect a
Chairperson by majority vote.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.005 PRESIDING OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The presiding officer shall conduct all meetings, preserve order, enforce
the rules of the Council, and determine the order and length of discussion on
any matter before the Council, subject to these rules. The presiding officer
may move, second, debate, and vote and shall not be deprived of any of the
rights and privileges of a Councilor.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.006 SIGNING OF DOCUMENTS.
   The Mayor shall sign all ordinances, resolutions, contracts, and other
documents, except where authority to sign certain contracts and other documents
has been delegated to the City Manager, and all documents shall be attested to
by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
MEETINGS
§ 31.020 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings shall be held on the second Monday of each month at 7:00
p.m. at the City Hall, 190 Third Street, Glendale, Oregon. Regular meetings may
be held at a different time and place by giving appropriate notice at least 24
hours in advance. One regular meeting shall be held each month.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.021 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or two other Councilors, and
appropriate notice shall be given to the remaining Councilors, the City
Manager, City Attorney, and the public. The notice shall specify the meeting
time and place and a description of the business to be transacted at the
meeting. If a special meeting is called to deal with an emergency involving
danger to life or property, notice is not required. No general legislation may
be considered at a special meeting except that for which the meeting is called.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.022 EXECUTIVE SESSION.
   All meetings shall be held in compliance with ORS 192.610 to 192.690 (Public
Meeting Law). The Council may hold closed meetings (executive sessions)
pursuant to ORS 192.660. A motion or notice calling for an executive session
shall identify the specific statutory authorization. Media representatives will
be allowed to attend executive sessions, but the Council may require that
certain information shall not be disclosed. Final action on any matter
discussed in executive session must be taken at an open meeting.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.023 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Councilors will keep all written materials and verbal information
provided them on matters of confidentiality under law in complete confidence to
ensure that the city’s position is not compromised. No mention of the
information read or heard should be made to anyone other than other Councilors,
the City Manager, and the City Attorney.
   (B)   If the Council in executive session provides direction or consensus to
staff on proposed terms and conditions for any type of negotiations whether it
be related to property acquisition or disposal, pending or likely claim or
litigation, or employee negotiations, all contact with the other parties shall
be made by designated staff or representatives handling the negotiations or
litigation. A Councilor will not have any contact or discussion with any other
party or its representative nor communicate any executive session discussion.
   (C)   If a Councilor does not refrain from disclosing the information as
required by the Council rules, the Council shall convene and discuss the matter
in an executive session.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.024 QUORUM.
   Four members of the Council constitute a quorum for the conduct of business,
but a smaller number may meet to compel the attendance of absent members.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.025 AGENDA.
   (A)   Documents to be submitted to the Council shall be delivered to the
City Manager no later than 12:00 p.m. on the third working day preceding a
regular meeting and no later than 24 hours prior to a special meeting. Copies
of the agenda materials shall be distributed to each Councilor, the City
Manager, City Attorney, and others as designated by the Council or City Manager
at least 48 hours prior to any regular meeting.
   (B)   Copies of the printed agenda page will be made available to the public
at the meeting.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.026 STAFF ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   Unless excused by the Council, the City Manager shall attend all regular and
special meetings. The City Clerk and public works lead position shall attend
all regular meetings and those special meetings where their attendance is
required, unless excused by the City Manager. In the event a staff member is
unable to attend a particular meeting, an alternate may be required.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.027 MINUTES.
   All meetings shall be tape-recorded, and the tapes of all open meetings
shall be made available for public examination in the office of the City Clerk.
The Recorder shall prepare written minutes of all open regular and special
meetings which shall be approved by the Council and made available for public
inspection. Written minutes shall include the names of all Councilors present,
all motions, revolutions, resolutions, orders, ordinances, and measures
proposed and their disposition, the results of all votes, with the vote of each
Councilor by name unless the vote is unanimous, the substance of the discussion
of any matter, and references to any documents discussed.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.028 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All regular meetings shall have the following order of business:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Proclamations, commendations, special reports, and award;
      (3)   Consent agenda;
      (4)   Audience participation (for items on the agenda);
      (5)   Public hearings;
      (6)   Other business;
      (7)   Information items;
      (8)   Public comment for other than agenda items;
      (9)   Adjournment of regular session; and
      (10)   Executive sessions, as necessary.
   (B)   The order of business may be changed by the presiding officer or
majority vote of the remaining Councilors.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.029 DISCUSSION OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The right to discuss the business before the Council is reserved
exclusively for Councilors, the Manager, and the City Attorney, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Public hearings;
      (2)   Employee complaints; and
      (3)   Audience participation agenda.
   (B)   The presiding officer may recognize any staff member or member of the
audience for discussion of any matter before the Council.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.030 MOTION PROCEDURE.
   When a motion is moved and seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer for debate. A motion once made may not be withdrawn by the mover
without the consent of the Councilor seconding it and the approval of the
Council. The presiding officer may rule an improper motion out of order or, if
the question involves two or more propositions, divide it into two separate
questions. No Councilor shall be allowed to speak more than once on a
particular question until every other Councilor has had an opportunity to do
so.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.031 MOTION TO POSTPONE OR TABLE.
   A motion to postpone may be debated and amended and may specify a time when
the question will be considered. A motion to table precludes all amendments or
debate and, if the motion prevails, consideration of the question may be
resumed only upon the motion of a member voting with the majority.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.032 MOTION TO RECESS OR ADJOURN.
   The presiding officer may adjourn the regular meeting without a motion after
all business has been concluded and the City Council has no further comments. A
City Council session may be recessed after a motion has been made and passed,
giving the reason for the recess and the time and place the City Council will
reconvene.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.033 POINT OF ORDER.
   Any member may raise a point of order at any time and the presiding officer
shall determine all points of order, subject to the right of any Councilor to
appeal the decision to all Council members present.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.034 PROCEDURE IN ABSENCE OF RULES.
   In the absence of a rule to govern a point or procedure, reference shall be
made to accepted practice in parliamentary bodies. Disputes involving
procedural matters shall be settled by reference to Robert’s Rules of Order,
Revised.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.035 EFFECT AND SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules in this chapter are procedural only, and the failure to strictly
observe them shall not invalidate any action taken. Any rule contained in this
chapter may be temporarily suspended at any meeting by majority vote of all
Council members present.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.036 ATTENDANCE OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Members are expected to attend all meetings. In the event a member is absent
from a meeting, the Council shall determine whether the member’s absence will
be excused. No member may leave during a meeting without the consent of the
presiding officer.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.037 SEATING ARRANGEMENTS.
   Members shall occupy seats in the Council chamber assigned to them by the
Mayor. New Councilors will occupy the seats of the individuals they replaced
unless instructed otherwise.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.038 RIGHT TO SPEAK.
   Members shall have the right to speak on any matter properly before the
Council and shall not be interrupted unless called to order by the presiding
officer or unless a point of order or personal privilege is raised by another
member.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.039 DISSENTS AND PROTESTS.
   Any member shall have the right to express dissent from or protest against
any ordinance or resolution and have the reasons therefor entered in the
minutes in summary form.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.040 DECORUM.
   During Council meetings, Council members shall preserve order and decorum
and shall neither by conversation nor otherwise delay or interrupt the
proceedings. Councilors shall confine their remarks to the question under
debate and avoid all personalities and indecorous language.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.041 QUESTION OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   A Councilor may interrupt another Councilor and address the Council on a
question of personal privilege in cases where the member’s integrity,
character, or motives are questioned, if the presiding officer recognizes the
privilege.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.042 GOVERNMENT STANDARDS AND PRACTICES.
   (A)   Councilors shall review and observe the requirements of the Government
Standards and Practices Law (ORS 224.010 to 244.390) dealing with the use of
public office for private financial gain. Councilors shall give public notice
of any potential conflict of interest, and the notice will be reported in the
meeting minutes. In addition to matters of financial interest, Councilors shall
maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and assure fair and equal
treatment of all persons, claims, and transactions coming before the Council.
This general obligation includes the duty to refrain from:
      (1)   Disclosing confidential information or making use of special
knowledge or information before it is made available to the general public;
      (2)   Making decisions involving business associates, customers, clients,
and competitors;
      (3)   Violating Council rules;
      (4)   Appointing relatives, clients, or employees to boards and
commissions;
      (5)   Requesting preferential treatment for themselves, relatives,
associates, clients, coworkers, or friends;
      (6)   Seeking employment of relatives with the city;
      (7)   Actions benefitting special interest groups at the expense of the
city as a whole;
      (8)   Attending meetings or participating in decisions of city boards and
commissions where there is a possibility of appeal of the matter to the
Council; and
      (9)   Expressing an opinion which is contrary to the official position of
the Council without so stating.
   (B)   In general, Councilors shall conduct themselves so as to bring credit
upon the government of the city by respecting the rule of law, ensuring
nondiscriminatory delivery of public services, keeping informed concerning the
matters coming before the Council, and abiding by all decisions of the Council,
whether or not the member voted on the prevailing side.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.043 VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirement. The concurrence of a majority of all the Council members
present is required to determine any matter before the Council. Each Councilor
must vote on all questions before the Council. Each Councilor must vote on all
questions before the Council unless the member has a conflict of interest which
would disqualify the member from voting. If a member abstains, the reasons for
the abstention shall be entered in the record. Unless a Councilor abstains, the
member’s silence when the vote is taken shall be considered an affirmative
vote.
   (B)   Statement of the question. Immediately prior to the vote, the
presiding officer shall restate the question. Following the vote, the presiding
officer shall announce whether the question carried or was defeated. The
presiding officer may also publicly state the effect of a vote for the benefit
of the audience.
   (C)   Roll call vote. At the request of any Councilor, any question shall be
voted on by roll call.
   (D)   Tie vote. In the case of a tie vote on any proposal, the proposal
shall be considered lost.
   (E)   Changing vote. A Councilor may change his or her vote only if the
action is taken immediately following the last vote cast and prior to the time
that the results of the vote is announced. A Councilor shall not be allowed to
withdraw an abstention.
   (F)   Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider any action may be made
only at the same meeting where the action was taken, by a Councilor on the
prevailing side of the question. Any Councilor may make a motion on the same
question at any subsequent meeting.
   (G)   Record of votes. Unless the vote is unanimous, the ayes and nays of
each Councilor shall be entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.055 PREPARATION AND INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions shall be prepared under the supervision
of the City Attorney and shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney.
   (B)   (1)   Ordinances and resolutions may be introduced by a member of the
Council, the City Manager, the City Attorney, or any department head.
      (2)   Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be accompanied by a
written summary of the action proposed in a form approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.056 DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES.
   Whenever possible, copies of a proposed ordinance or resolution shall be
made available for public inspection one week prior to the first meeting where
they are to be considered. The City Clerk shall make sufficient copies for
distribution with the agenda packets and for posting for public inspection at
the time the ordinance or resolution is considered.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.057 READING AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Unless the motion for adoption provides otherwise, resolutions shall
be adopted by reference to the title only.
   (B)   Before being considered for adoption, an ordinance shall be read in
full at two separate Council meetings, except that an ordinance may be adopted
at a single meeting by unanimous vote of all Council members present after
being read once in full and once by title.
   (C)   Both of the readings may be by title only if no Councilor objects or
if copies are provided each Councilor and three copies are available for public
inspection one week before the first reading and notice is given as provided in
Chapter VII of the City Charter.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.058 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinances shall be effective on the thirtieth day following the date
of adoption, unless the ordinance provides that it will become effective at a
later time.
   (B)   An emergency ordinance which includes a provision that the ordinance
is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health, safety, or morals may provide that it will become effective upon
adoption.
   (C)   Resolutions shall be effective upon adoption.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.059 POSTING.
   All ordinances shall be posted for ten days after the date of adoption in
conspicuous places in City Hall and the library.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
COMMUNICATION WITH COUNCIL
§ 31.070 ORAL COMMUNICATIONS.
   Comments from persons other than the Council, City Manager, or City Attorney
will be entertained only during the part of the agenda where public comments
are permitted or at the discretion of the presiding officer. The person
addressing the Council shall first ask to be recognized and then give his or
her name and address for the record. Persons addressing the Council shall also
complete an information card for the record and return it to the City Recorder.
All remarks shall be directed to the whole Council and the presiding officer
may limit comments or refuse recognition if the remarks become irrelevant,
repetitious, personal, impertinent, or slanderous. In the event a member of the
audience refuses to abide by the presiding officer’s order, that person may be
denied further opportunity to address the Council and may be removed upon order
of the presiding officer. The order in which audience comments are received is
left to the discretion of the presiding officer, subject to these rules. The
presiding officer may request that a spokesperson be selected for a group of
persons wishing to speak.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.071 WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS.
   Written communications addressed to the Council shall be forwarded to the
Council by submission to the City Manager prior to the meeting to be placed
with the agenda materials or by submission to the presiding officer during the
meeting. The presiding officer shall announce the submission of any written
communication and reference shall be entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.072 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearings include all items on the agenda on which the public
has the right to be heard by law. The order of presentation of testimony at
public hearings is as follows:
      (1)   Staff report;
      (2)   Correspondence;
      (3)   Applicant’s presentation;
      (4)   Other testimony in favor of the application;
      (5)   Opponent’s testimony;
      (6)   Neutral testimony;
      (7)   Additional staff comments;
      (8)   Questions and answers and general comments (at the discretion of
the presiding officer); and
      (9)   Applicant’s final remarks.
   (B)   Following the presentation of testimony, the presiding officer shall
close the hearing and ask for discussion among the Councilors. No further
testimony or evidence will be accepted without approval of the presiding
officer. All hearings shall be conducted in a fair and open manner. Councilors
shall particularly observe the requirements of hearings on land use matters
dealing with ex parte contacts.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.073 COUNCIL-STAFF RELATIONS.
   Councilors shall respect the separation between policy-making and
administration by:
   (A)   Not attempting to influence or coerce the City Manager concerning
personnel or purchasing, as outlined in
Section 24 (10) of the City Charter;
   (B)   Addressing all inquiries and requests for information from staff to
the City Manager and allowing sufficient time for response. At the discretion
of the Manager, inquiries may be forwarded to the full Council for
consideration;
   (C)   Limiting individual contacts with city officers and employees so as
not to influence staff decisions or recommendations, undermine the authority of
supervisors, or prevent the full Council from having the benefit of any
information received;
   (D)   Honoring the confidentiality of discussions with the City Attorney;
and
   (E)   Attempting to work together with the staff as a team in a spirit of
mutual confidence and support.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
§ 31.074 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints concerning city policies shall be addressed to and heard by the
Council. Complaints concerning actions of city boards and commissions shall be
referred to the particular body for comment. All complaints with respect to the
management of the city or the actions of any city employee shall be referred to
the City Manager for action. The Manager may be requested to provide the
Council a written report of the resolution of the complaint. In all instances,
deemed appropriate by the Council, the Council may investigate or cause to be
investigated through a formal hearing or otherwise the administration of any
department.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 3-15-2000)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Local Contract Review Board
   
32.01   Adoption of rules
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Exemptions from competitive procurement
   
32.04   Personal service contracts rules
   
32.05   Disposition of surplus personal property
   
32.06   Negotiations
Planning Commission
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Intent
   
32.22   Membership
   
32.23   Term of office
   
32.24   Qualifications of members
   
32.25   Officers
   
32.26   Vacancies
   
32.27   Proceedings to be public
   
32.28   Quorum
   
32.29   Voting
   
32.30   Proceedings
   
32.31   Amendments
   
32.32   Duties of the Planning Commission
LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   The following (hereinafter “these rules”) shall be public contracting rules
for the city. Except as provided within these rules, public contracting by the
city shall be governed by the Public Contracting Code and the Model Rules. The
City Council is the city’s Contract Review Board (“Board”). Except as otherwise
provided in these rules, the powers and duties of the Contract Review Board
will be exercised by the City Council and the powers and duties given or
assigned to contracting agencies will be exercised by the City Council. The
City Council may, through formal action, from time to time delegate its powers
to conduct certain procurements to various members of its staff.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
and phrases not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the
Public Contracting Code or in the Model Rules.
   CONTRACTING AGENCY. The city and includes any person authorized by the City
Council to conduct a procurement on behalf of the city.
   PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT.
      (1)   A contract for services that require specialized technical,
artistic, creative, professional or communication skills or talent, unique and
specialized knowledge, or the exercise of discretionary judgment skills, and
for which the service depends on attributes that are unique to the service
provider, other than contracts for an architect, engineer, land surveyor, or
provider of related services as defined in ORS 279C.100.
      (2)   CONTRACTS FOR PERSONAL SERVICES include, but are not limited to,
the following contracts or classes of contracts:
         (a)   Accountants and auditors;
         (b)   Appraisers;
         (c)   Computer consultants;
         (d)   Lawyers;
         (e)   Insurance consultants;
         (f)   Training consultants;
         (g)   Investigators; and
         (h)   Management system consultants.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 32.03 EXEMPTIONS FROM COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT.
   The following contracts and classes of contracts are exempt from the
competitive procurement requirements of the Public Contracting Code and the
Model Rules and may be awarded as provided herein, or otherwise in any manner
which the contracting agency deems appropriate including by direct appointment
or purchase.
   (A)   Contracts up to $5,000. Any procurement of goods or services or any
combination thereof not exceeding $5,000 may be awarded in any manner deemed
practical or convenient by the contracting agency, including by direct
selection or award. Staff of the contracting agency is authorized to conduct
procurements on behalf of the contracting agency for goods or services or
combinations thereof not exceeding $1,000. Additional procurements shall be
approved by the City Council. Procurements shall not be artificially divided or
fragmented so as to constitute a smaller procurement than specified in this
section.
   (B)   Equipment repair. Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling may be
awarded without competition, provided the service or parts required are unknown
and the cost cannot be determined without extensive preliminary dismantling or
testing.
   (C)   Sole source contracts. Contracts for goods or services which are
available from a single source may be awarded without competition.
   (D)   Renewals. Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with their
terms are not considered to be newly awarded contracts and are not subject to
competitive procurement procedures.
   (E)   Temporary extensions or renewals. Contracts for the temporary
extension or renewal of a single period of one year or less of an expiring and
nonrenewable, or recently expired, contract, other than a contract for public
improvements, are not subject to competitive procurement procedures.
   (F)   Contracts required by emergency circumstances.
      (1)   In general. When an official with authority to enter into a
contract on behalf of the contracting agency determines that immediate
execution of a contract within the official’s authority is necessary to prevent
substantial damage or injury to persons or property, the official may execute
the contract without competitive selection and award, but, where time permits,
the official shall attempt to use competitive price and quality evaluation
before selecting an emergency contractor.
      (2)   Reporting. An official who enters into an emergency contract shall,
as soon as possible, in light of the emergency circumstances:
         (a)   Document the nature of the emergency, the method used for
selection of the particular contractor and the reason why the selection method
was deemed in the best interest of the contracting agency and the public; and
         (b)   Notify the City Council of the facts and circumstances
surrounding the emergency execution of the contract.
      (3)   Emergency public improvement contracts. A public improvement
contract may only be awarded under emergency circumstances if the contracting
agency has made a written declaration of emergency. Any public improvement
contract award under emergency conditions must be awarded within 60 days
following the declaration of an emergency unless the contracting agency grants
an extension of the emergency period. Where the time delay needed to obtain a
payment or performance bond for the contract could result in injury or
substantial property damage, the contracting agency may waive the requirement
for all or a portion of the required performance and payment bonds.
   (G)   State law exemptions. There shall be an exemption for any other
contract or class of contracts exempted by the Public Contracting Code or the
Model Rules.
   (H)   Other exemptions adopted in future. There shall be an exemption for
any other contract or class of contracts expressly exempted from competitive
procurement requirements pursuant to procedures permitted by the Public
Contracting Code or the Model Rules.
   (I)   Public improvements. Public improvement contracts estimated by the
contracting agency not to exceed $100,000, or not to exceed $50,000 in the case
of a contract for a highway, bridge, or other transportation project, may be
awarded by competitive quotes under the following procedures:
      (1)   The contracting agency shall informally solicit at least three
price quotes from prospective contractors. If three prospective contractors are
not available, then fewer quotes may be solicited, and the contracting agency
shall maintain records of the attempts to obtain quotes;
      (2)   The contracting agency shall award the contract to the prospective
contractor whose quote will best serve the interests of the contracting agency,
taking into account price and other applicable factors, such as experience,
specific expertise, past record of performance and conduct, availability,
familiarity with local area and access to local resources, project
understanding, contractor capacity, and contractor responsibility. If the
contract is not awarded on the basis of the lowest price, the contracting
agency shall make a written record of the basis for the award; and
      (3)   A procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented to
qualify for the informal contract award procedures provided by this section.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 32.04 PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS RULES.
   Personal services contracts (other than a personal services contract for an
architect, engineer, land surveyor, or provider of related services), are
subject to the rules established by this section.
   (A)   All personal services contracts shall contain all contract provisions
mandated by state law. These provisions may be incorporated in the personal
services contract by reference to state law, unless state law provides
otherwise. The attorney for the contracting agency when requested will prepare
model contract provisions for use in personal services contracts.
   (B)   The following procedures shall be observed in the selection of
personal services contractors.
      (1)   For personal services contracts involving an anticipated fee of
$20,000 or less per annum, the contracting agency may negotiate a contract for
such services with any qualified contractor the contracting agency selects.
      (2)   For personal services contracts involving an anticipated fee of
more than $20,000 per annum, the contracting agency shall solicit prospective
contractors who shall appear to have at least minimum qualifications for the
proposed assignment, notify each prospective contractor in reasonable detail of
the proposed assignment, and determine the prospective contractor’s interest
and ability to perform the proposed assignment.
      (3)   The contracting agency may arrange for any or all interested
prospective contractors to be interviewed for the assignment by an appropriate
employee or by an interview committee.
      (4)   Following a review of the qualifications and interview, where
conducted, of the interested prospective contractors, the contracting agency
shall select the prospective contractor and shall prepare a personal services
contract.
   (C)   Some or all of the following criteria shall be considered in the
evaluation and selection of a personal services contractor:
      (1)   Experience in the type of work to be performed;
      (2)   Familiarity with the local area and access to local resources;
      (3)   Capacity and capability to perform the work, including any
specialized services within the time limitations for the work;
      (4)   Educational and professional record, including past record of
performance on contracts with governmental agencies and private parties with
respect to cost control, quality of work, ability to meet schedules and
contract administration, where applicable; and
      (5)   Any other factors relevant to the particular contract.
   (D)   The above provisions regarding selection procedures and criteria do
not apply to renewals, amendments, or modifications of existing personal
services contracts.
   (E)   The selection procedures described in this section may be waived by
the contracting agency at its discretion where an emergency exists that could
not have been reasonably foreseen and requires such prompt execution of a
contract to remedy the situation that there is not sufficient time to permit
utilization of the selection procedures.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 32.05 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Disposition of surplus personal property may be made, at the discretion of
the contracting agency, under provisions of the Public Contracting Code or the
Model Rules or under the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Surplus property is property owned by the contracting agency, such as
office furniture, computers, equipment, and vehicles, but excluding real
property, that the contracting agency determines is surplus and no longer
useful to the contracting agency.
   (B)   (1)   Surplus property may be sold or disposed of in any manner deemed
appropriate by the contracting agency including, but not limited to, the
informal solicitation of bids, or through an auction, including an online
auction, or the contracting agency may authorize the property to be donated or
to be destroyed.
      (2)   The contracting agency has the discretion whether or not to
advertise the sale of surplus property in a newspaper of general circulation.
   (C)   All proceeds of sale shall be paid to the contracting agency’s General
Fund.
   (D)   (1)   All personal property sold pursuant to this section shall be
sold as-is without any warranty, either express or implied, of any kind,
including, but not limited to, warranties of title or fitness for any purpose.
      (2)   Upon receiving payment for the personal property from the
purchaser, a person or company conducting the sale shall execute an appropriate
bill of sale, which shall recite that the sale is without warranty, as provided
in this section.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 32.06 NEGOTIATIONS.
   If bids or quotes are solicited for a public improvement contract, and all
bids or quotes exceed the budget for the project, the contracting agency may,
prior to contract award, negotiate for a price within the project budget under
the following procedures.
   (A)   (1)   Negotiations will begin with the lowest, responsive, and
responsible bidder or proposer.
      (2)   If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
begin negotiations with the second lowest responsive, responsible bidder or
proposer, and so on.
   (B)   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost within the budgeted amount.
   (C)   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of the
project is significantly changed from the description in the original
solicitation or bid documents.
   (D)   The contracting agency will adhere to the provisions of ORS 279C.340
in applying this section.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 10-10-2011)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Mayor and City Council do hereby ordain that a city Planning Commission
be established, following the legal guidelines outlined in ORS Chapter 227.
(Ord. 219, passed 11-14-1973)
§ 32.21 INTENT.
   To preserve and promote a better community with orderly and systematic
planning of all land and resources within this Commission’s jurisdiction.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.22 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall be composed of no less than three and no more
than five members appointed by the City Council as pursuant to ORS 227.030.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.23 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Commission members shall be appointed by the Council. Planning Commissioner
terms shall commence on the fourth Monday of April of the first year of each
term. The term of office of the Planning Commissioner shall be three years, or
until the incumbent’s successor is appointed and qualified. However, the
initial appointments and reappointments of some members shall be for shorter
terms in order to establish an approximately equal number of expiring terms
every calendar year.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.24 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   No person shall be eligible of an appointment to the city’s Planning
Commission unless at the time of his or her appointment he or she has resided
in the city during the 12 months immediately preceding the appointment and is a
registered voter.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.25 OFFICERS.
   The duties and responsibilities of the officers of the Planning Commission
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Chairperson.
      (1)   To preside at all meetings of the Commission;
      (2)   To call special meetings of the Commission in accordance with this
subchapter;
      (3)   To sign all documents of the Commission;
      (4)   To see that all actions of the Commission are properly taken; and
      (5)   To inform the Commission of correspondence relating to business of
the Commission and to attend to such correspondence.
   (B)   Vice-Chairperson. During the absence, disability or disqualification
of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall exercise or perform all the
duties and be subject to all the responsibilities of the Chairperson
   (C)   Secretary.
      (1)   (a)   To keep the minutes of all meetings of the Commission in an
appropriate minute book;
         (b)   To give or serve all notices required by law or by these bylaws;
         (c)   To prepare the agenda for all meetings of the Commission;
         (d)   To be custodian of the Commission’s records; and
         (e)   To coordinate all activities of the Commission with the City
Recorder and to render a copy of all minutes to the City Recorder.
      (2)   In the event the Secretary is absent from any meeting, the
presiding Chairperson shall designate an acting Secretary.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.26 VACANCIES.
   Should any vacancy occur among the members of the Planning Commission by
reason of death, resignation, disability or otherwise, immediate notice thereof
shall be given to the City Recorder by the Secretary. Should an officer or
member of this Commission be absent from three consecutive meetings, said
member shall be automatically resigned from the Commission and said position
shall be declared vacant.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.27 PROCEEDINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Public proceedings. No action by the Commission shall have legal
effect unless the motion for the action and the vote by which it is disposed of
take place at proceedings open to the public.
   (B)   Annual meeting. The annual meeting of the Commission shall be the
first regular meeting in the month of April of each year. Such meeting shall be
devoted to the election of officers for the ensuing year and such other
business as shall be scheduled by the Commission.
   (C)   Regular meeting. The regular meetings of the Commission shall be held
in the city hall on a date at an hour decided at the Commission’s annual
meeting. At such meetings, the Commission shall consider all matters properly
brought before the Commission. A regular meeting may be cancelled or
rescheduled by the Commission at a prior meeting, or if there is no quorum of
members present.
   (D)   Special meeting. Special meetings of the Commission shall be held at a
time and date designated by the officer calling the special meeting. Notice
shall be given to all members not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. Notice
shall be made public. Notice shall be given to the City Recorder.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.28 QUORUM.
   At any meeting of the Commission, a quorum shall consist of a majority of
the voting members of the Commission. No action shall be taken in the absence
of a quorum, except to adjourn the meeting to a subsequent date.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.29 VOTING.
   At all meetings of the Commission, each member attending (excluding ex-
officio members) shall be entitled to cast one vote. Voting shall be by voice.
In the event that any member shall have a personal interest of any kind in a
matter before the Commission, he or she shall disclose his or her interest and
be disqualified from voting upon the matter and the Secretary shall so record
in the minutes that no vote was cast by such member. The affirmative vote of
the majority of the qualified members shall be necessary for the adoption of
any resolution or other voting matter.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.30 PROCEEDINGS.
   At any regular meeting of the Commission, the following shall be the regular
order of business:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Minutes of the preceding meeting;
   (C)   Public hearings;
   (D)   Old and new business;
   (E)   Communications;
   (F)   Report of the Chairperson; and
   (G)   Adjournment.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.31 AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter may be amended at any meeting of the Commission provided
that notice of said proposed amendment is given to each member at the previous
meeting.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 32.32 DUTIES OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Conduct studies appropriate to an understanding of area development
and its significance to the public interest, as the need arises;
   (B)   Develop and maintain comprehensive plan proposals for recommendation
to the City Council;
   (C)   Develop specific plans for selected areas or functions as indicated by
studies and other evidence of community need and recommend plan adoption, if
appropriate and as the need arises;
   (D)   Investigate and make recommendations regarding the implementation of
the comprehensive plan as adopted by the City Council;
   (E)   Prepare and periodically review land development regulations including
but not limited to zoning, subdivision, and land partitioning and make
recommendations to the City Council;
   (F)   Consult and advise with public agencies and private citizens on ways
to carry out the comprehensive plan including matters concerning the area
within six miles of the city limits as the need arises;
   (G)   Submit a monthly report to the City Council on the activities of the
Planning Commission and on the status of the comprehensive plan and its
implementation;
   (H)   Review public programs that are referred to the Commission for
recommendation, such as property acquisition or disposition, public building or
other public facility proposals, and transportation or right-of-way plans, as
the City Council may request. Report as to the program’s conformity with the
comprehensive plan; and
   (I)   Review subdivision and partitioning proposals and approve those
meeting city and state standards with such requirements or conditions as are
found appropriate under the regulations.
(Res. 17-13, passed 6-10-2013)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Definition of emergency
   
33.04   Emergency Management Core Team
   
33.05   Declaration of an emergency
   
33.06   Regulation and control of persons and property
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Emergency Management Ordinance” and may
be cited as such and will be referred to as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a plan to minimize injury to
persons and property, to preserve the established civil authority in the event
that a state of emergency exists within the city. This chapter is also intended
to operate in conjunction with the city’s Emergency Management Plan. The city’s
Emergency Management Plan shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council
and may be amended from time to time by subsequent Council resolution.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 33.03 DEFINITION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The state of emergency exists whenever the city or any area in the
city is suffering or is in imminent danger of suffering an event that may cause
injury or death to persons, or damage to or destruction of property to the
extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare.
   (B)   Such an event shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A civil disturbance, riot or crisis influx of migrants unmanageable
by the city;
      (2)   Eco-terrorism and/or sabotage;
      (3)   A disaster such as flood, windstorm, snow event, earthquake,
volcanic eruption or related activity, drought, fire, explosion, spills or
releases of hazardous materials, epidemic or pandemic;
      (4)   The declaration of a war-caused national emergency;
      (5)   Any major disruption of community services such as transportation,
power supply, water service, sanitation, or communications; and
      (6)   A health hazard, whether natural or human-made.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 33.04 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT CORE TEAM.
   The Emergency Management Core Team shall be responsible for the
implementation of the Emergency Management Plan. The team shall consist of the
Mayor, the members of the City Council, as well as designated representatives,
including their back-ups, of the rural fire district, ambulance service and
school district.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 33.05 DECLARATION OF AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   When the Core Team determines that a state of emergency exists, the
Mayor shall make a declaration to that effect and request a special meeting of
the City Council in order to ratify the declaration of emergency. The special
meeting of the Council shall occur as soon as possible after the declaration of
emergency and such notice as is appropriate to the circumstances shall be given
for the meeting. If for any reason the Mayor is unavailable to perform the
duties of office under this chapter during a state of emergency, the duties
shall be performed by a member of the City Council appointed by the Council to
act in the Mayor’s place. The powers of this successor shall be limited to
those granted under this chapter, and the duration of the succession shall be
until such time as the Mayor is able or available to perform the duties of
office.
   (B)   The state of emergency declared under this section shall be continuous
and shall remain in effect until further notice is given by the Mayor or his or
her appointed successor.
   (C)   The declaration of emergency shall designate the geographic boundaries
of the area which warrants the exercise of emergency controls.
   (D)   The declaration of emergency shall state any special regulations
imposed as a result of the state of emergency and the Council may authorize
additional specific emergency powers not provided in this chapter for the
duration of the emergency.
   (E)   The declaration of emergency may:
      (1)   Authorize extraordinary measures for the mobilization of city
resources;
      (2)   Authorize expedited purchasing and contracting, including bypassing
hearings and the competitive bid process;
      (3)   Authorize requests for state and federal disaster funding; and
      (4)   Encourage a county and/or state proclamation of emergency.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 33.06 REGULATION AND CONTROL OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   During the existence of a declared state of emergency within the city,
the Core Team is empowered to order the following measures in the interests of
public heath, safety, or welfare:
      (1)   Establish a curfew for the area designated as an emergency area
which fixes the hours during which all persons other than officially authorized
personnel may not be upon the public streets or other public places;
      (2)   Regulate or prohibit egress and ingress to and from an emergency
area; limit or prohibit the movement of any person or persons within such area;
order the moving or removal of any property within the area and the evacuation
of any person or persons from the area to the extent that the Core Team finds
human lives or property are endangered; and authorize or direct the entry into
or upon private property to prevent or minimize danger to lives or property;
      (3)   Prohibit or limit the number of persons who may gather or
congregate upon any public street, public place, or any outdoor place within
the area designated as an emergency area;
      (4)   Barricade streets and prohibit vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or
regulate the same on any public street leading to the area designated as an
emergency area, for such distance as may be deemed necessary under the
circumstances;
      (5)   Prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages or the consumption thereof
in public places; prohibit or restrict the sale of gasoline or other flammable
liquids; and prohibit the sale, carrying, or possession of any weapons or
explosives of any kind on public streets, public places, or any outdoor place;
      (6)   Order mandatory evacuations of persons. An evacuation authorized by
this division (A)(6) shall be ordered only when necessary for public safety or
when necessary for the efficient conduct of activities that minimize or
mitigate the effects of the emergency; and
      (7)   Order such other measures as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life or property, or for the recovery from emergency.
   (B)   All orders issued under this section shall have the full force and
effect of law during the declared state of emergency. All existing laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations inconsistent with this chapter shall be
inoperative during this period of time and to the extent that such
inconsistencies exist.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter and any order adopted
or enacted under authority of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 07-2006, passed 7-10-2006)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
Fair Housing Policy
   
34.01   General
Police Excessive Force Policy
   
34.15   General
Public Record Request Policy
   
34.30   General
   
34.31   Fees
   
34.32   Additional charges
   
34.33   Fee waivers
Engineering Policy - Guidelines for Development
   34.40   General
FAIR HOUSING POLICY
§ 34.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale, rental, lease, advertising of sale, rental
or lease, financing of housing or land to be used for construction of housing,
or in the provision of brokerage or rental services because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability (physical or mental), familial status (children) or
national origin is prohibited by Title VIII of the federal Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988. It is the policy of the city to support the Fair
Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and to implement a fair housing program to
ensure equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color,
religion, sex, disability (physical and mental), familial status (children,
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status or
its members), or national origin.
   (B)   Within the resources available to the city through city, county,
state, federal and community volunteer sources, the city will assist all
persons who feel they have been discriminated against because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability (physical and mental), familial status (children) or
national origin in the process of filing a complaint with the Oregon Civil
Rights Division or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development,
Seattle Regional Office Compliance Division, that they may seek equity under
federal and state laws.
   (C)   The city shall publicize this policy and through this publicity shall
cause real estate brokers and sellers, private home sellers, rental owners,
rental property managers, real estate and rental advertisers, lenders,
builders, developers, home buyers and home or apartment renters to become aware
of their respective responsibilities and rights under the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988 and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   For the purpose of informing those affected of their respective
responsibilities and rights concerning fair housing law and complaint
procedures, will at a minimum include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   The printing, publicizing and distribution of this policy;
      (2)   The distribution of posters, flyers, pamphlets and other applicable
fair housing information provided by local, state and federal sources, through
local media of community contacts; and
      (3)   The publicizing of locations where assistance will be provided to
those seeking to file a discrimination complaint.
(Res. 10-14, passed 6-23-2014)
POLICE EXCESSIVE FORCE POLICY
§ 34.15 GENERAL.
   (A)   The law enforcement personnel of the city shall not use excessive
force against any individuals engaged in nonviolent civil rights
demonstrations.
   (B)   Applicable state and local laws that prohibit physically barring
entrance to, or exit from a facility or location which is the subject of such
nonviolent civil rights demonstrations within its jurisdiction shall be
enforced.
(Res. 09-14, passed 6-9-2014)
PUBLIC RECORD REQUEST POLICY
§ 34.30 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city shall permit inspection and examination of its non-exempt
public records during regular business hours in the city’s offices, or such
other locations as the city may reasonably designate from time to time.
   (B)   All requests to inspect a public record should be in writing when
possible with the date, name, address and signature of the person making the
request.
   (C)   The request form must contain the specific records requested,
furnishing the dates, subject matter and such other detail as necessary to
enable city personnel to readily locate the records sought.
   (D)   The city shall respond to all public document requests within five
working days or explain why more time is needed for a full response.
   (E)   The city shall not create any new documents or customize any existing
documents in response to a records request.
   (F)   If the public record is maintained in machine-readable or electronic
form, staff shall provide copies of the public record in the form requested, if
available. If the record is not available in the form requested, it shall be
made available in the form in which it is maintained.
   (G)   A person making a public record request may personally inspect the
requested document during normal business hours. A city staff member must be
present while any original public records are being inspected to insure
protection of the documents.
   (H)   Providing non-exempt public records is a governmental activity covered
by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The city will provide an
opportunity for individuals with disabilities to request an alternative form.
   (I)   A staff member must review the requested document to make certain the
record does not contain any exempt information before releasing the public
record for inspection.
   (J)   Original public documents may not be taken out of the city’s custody.
   (K)   City records shall be released only under the conditions that the
records are “public” records, in other words not exempt from disclosure under
ORS 192.410 through 192.505.
   (L)   In order to recover its costs for responding to public records
requests, fees as established in the city’s fee schedule will be charged for
all copies.
(Res. 12-08, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 34.31 FEES.
   If a request for records requires city personnel to spend more than 30
minutes compiling a record to meet the request, the minimum fee shall be $25
per hour by half-hour units, with a minimum charge for one-half hour. Such
calculations shall include time spent by staff in locating the requested
records, reviewing the records for exempt material, supervising the inspection
of original documents and copying the records. The city shall estimate the
total amount of time required to respond to the records request, and the person
making the request shall make payment for the estimated cost of the search and
copying of the records in advance. If the actual time and costs are less than
estimated, the excess money shall be refunded. If the actual costs and time are
in excess of the estimated time, the difference shall be paid by the person
requesting the records at the time the records are produced.
(Res. 12-08, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 34.32 ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   If a request is of such magnitude and nature that compliance would disrupt
the city’s normal operation, the city may impose such additional charges as are
necessary to reimburse the city for its actual costs of producing the records.
(Res. 12-08, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 34.33 FEE WAIVERS.
    Routine materials are defined as those items already regularly produced
during the city’s regular course of business. Copies of routine materials
requested by the news media will be furnished without charge. Copies of routine
materials personal to a requestor will be furnished without charge. Copies of
routine materials requested by any city elected official or appointed advisory
body member will be furnished without charge if the request relates to
information needed in his or her official capacity.
(Res. 12-08, passed 5-12-2008)
ENGINEERING POLICY - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT
§ 34.40 GENERAL.
   (A)   The provisions of the “City of Glendale, Engineering Policy -
Guidelines for Development” shall be adhered to for projects involving sanitary
sewer system, water system, transportation system, and drainage systems
improvements within the city’s area of service.
   (B)   The officers, agents, and employees of the City of Glendale are
authorized to take all actions necessary to effectuate the provisions of this
section.
(Res. 3-2021, passed 3-8-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
51.   ADVANCED FINANCED DISTRICTS
      
52.   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   SEWERS
      
55.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Jurisdiction
   
50.03   Encroachments
   
50.04   Restoration of public rights-of-way
   
50.05   Fees
Excavations in Rights-of-Way
   
50.20   Excavation permits
   
50.21   Applications for excavation permits
   
50.22   Manner of excavation
   
50.23   Inspection of work
   
50.24   Placement of excavated material
   
50.25   Clean up
   
50.26   Resurfacing
   
50.27   Emergency excavation
Bond or Other Security
   
50.40   Construction standards
   
50.41   Undertaking construction of public improvements
   
50.42   Form of bond or other security
   
50.43   Revocation; appeals
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 54
   Water, see
Ch. 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. City of Glendale.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   DEPARTMENT. Public Works Department.
   EXCAVATION. Digging, scooping, hollowing out, or other removal of soil or
earth.
   PERMITTEE. The person authorized to make excavation in public right-of-way,
including the person who seeks to have the excavation made and his or her
agent.
   PERSON. A natural person; a corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, or any other entity in law or fact.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, sewer line, or other
public improvement which is located in public right-of-way, and which will be
dedicated or otherwise transferred to the city at the time the improvement is
completed, or any other improvement over which the city has regulatory
authority.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any real property owned by the city that is used for
the free and unimpeded passage of the public; any lesser interest in real
property held by the city which contains a grant for the free and unimpeded
access by the public across the property. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY include, but are
not limited to, streets, roads, highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, public
trails and paths, and all other easements which provide the public with a right
of access or give the city the right to construct, maintain, repair, and
operate a public improvement. As used in this chapter, PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
include subsurface and air space over the property.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES. Any person, firm, corporation, company, board, or
commission, whether public or private, which owns, possesses, maintains, or
otherwise has control of any poles, wires, cables, conduits, pipelines, or
other fixtures over, on, or under public streets, alleys, places, or public
easements within the city.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
§ 50.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state or federal law, the city has
jurisdiction, and may exercise regulatory control, over all public rights-of-
way owned by or otherwise vested in the city.
   (B)   The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory control pursuant to this
section does not obligate or create an obligation for the city to maintain,
repair, or improve any part of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
§ 50.03 ENCROACHMENTS.
   No person may occupy or otherwise encroach upon public rights-of-way subject
to the jurisdiction or regulatory authority of the city without first obtaining
a franchise, license, or permit, as the case may be, from the city for the
occupation or encroachment.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a person performs any work which affects a public
right-of-way, the person shall, at the person’s sole expense, promptly restore
the right-of-way to as good a condition as existed before the work was
undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the Department.
      (2)   If the person does not promptly restore the right-of-way, the city
may cause the restoration to be made, and the costs of the restoration assessed
against the person.
   (B)   Any tree, shrub, or other landscape planting which shows substantial
damage attributable to the person’s actions at the time, or within 18 months of
completion of the work, shall be replaced at the person’s sole expense.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 FEES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the City Council shall, by
resolution, establish fees and other charges for permits, plan checks, and
other activities by persons performing work in or otherwise utilizing public
rights-of-way.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
EXCAVATIONS IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 50.20 EXCAVATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, no person shall make any
excavation or tunnel under any area within public rights-of-way without first
obtaining an excavation permit from the city. Public utilities, as defined in
this chapter, are exempt from this division (A).
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent emergency excavation necessary
for the immediate preservation of life or property, for locating trouble in
conduit or pipe, or for making emergency repairs; provided, however, that any
person making the emergency excavation applies for and receives a permit on the
first working day after which the work is commenced.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 APPLICATIONS FOR EXCAVATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for excavation permits shall be made on forms provided by
the city. The application shall describe the purpose, location, and size of the
anticipated excavation, the name of the person performing the actual
excavation, and the name of the person for whom the excavation is being
performed. The application shall contain a provision endorsed by the person for
whom the excavation is being performed or the person’s agent, and that the
person performing the excavation will comply with the requirements of this
chapter and any conditions imposed upon the excavation.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a cash deposit, performance
bond, or other security acceptable to the City Attorney to insure proper
restoration of the public right-of-way. From this security shall be deducted
the expense, if any, incurred by the city in cleaning up and removing material
and debris and restoring the public right-of-way. The balance, if any, shall be
returned to the person posting the security after excavation is complete and
the right-of-way has been restored to good order and condition as the property
was in immediately prior to the time excavation was undertaken.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
§ 50.22 MANNER OF EXCAVATION.
   (A)   (1)   Permittees performing excavation shall excavate in a manner so
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience or annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring properties.
      (2)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce, to the
fullest practicable extent, noise, dust, and unsightly debris.
      (3)   Between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the permittee shall
not, except in case of emergency, use any tool, appliance, or other equipment
producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the peace or repose of
occupants of neighboring properties.
   (B)   No permittee shall make any excavation at variance with, or in any way
contrary to, the terms of the excavation permit issued therefor. Proper bracing
shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground. Excavation
shall not at any point extend underneath or beyond the width of the opening at
ground level.
   (C)   No injury shall be done to pipes, cables, or conduits in making
excavation. Notice shall be given to all persons maintaining pipes, cables, or
conduits which are or may be endangered or affected by the excavation prior to
the time excavation commences.
   (D)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
   (E)   After excavation commences, the person performing the excavation shall
proceed with diligence and promptly complete the work.
   (F)   The permittee shall adequately barricade the area being excavated, and
shall install sufficient warning lights to protect the public.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All excavation shall be inspected by the Department. The City Manager shall
be notified before any work commences. The permittee shall not proceed until
receiving authorization from the city at each step of the project as identified
in the permit.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All excavated material shall be laid compactly alongside the trench
and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience to vehicular and
pedestrian traffic as reasonably possible. Whenever necessary to expedite
traffic flow or abate a nuisance caused by dirt or dust, the city may require
toe boards or bins to contain excavated material.
   (B)   Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to
permit piling excavated material beside the trench, the City Manager may
require the permittee to haul the excavated material to a storage site for
storage until the time the trench is to be backfilled.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 CLEAN UP.
   From time to time, as may be ordered by the City Manager, and immediately
after completion of the work, the permittee shall, at the permittee’s sole
expense, clean up and remove from the site all refuse and unused material of
any kind resulting from the excavation, and, upon the permittee’s failure to do
so, the city may cause the clean up and removal to be made, and assess the cost
to the permittee.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 RESURFACING.
   Unless otherwise provided for in the permit, all pavement resurfacing shall
be inspected and approved by the city, and made solely at the cost of the
permittee. If the work fails inspection, the permittee shall rectify the
problem within the time specified by the City Manager. If the applicant fails
to rectify the problem, the City Manager may cause the resurfacing to be done,
and the costs therefor assessed against the permittee.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 EMERGENCY EXCAVATION.
   When traffic conditions, safety, or convenience of the public require
excavation be performed on an emergency basis, the City Manager shall have the
authority to order at the time the excavation permit issued that a crew and
adequate facilities be employed by the permittee on a 24-hour basis so that the
excavation may be completed as soon as practicable.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
BOND OR OTHER SECURITY
§ 50.40 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   No person shall construct, install, or operate a public improvement within a
public right-of-way, unless the construction, installation, or operation
complies with applicable codes, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 UNDERTAKING CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to construct a public improvement within
public right-of-way shall submit construction plans and specifications for the
public improvement to the City Manager, along with a plan check fee.
Construction plans and specifications shall be accompanied by a verification
from a registered professional engineer or other qualified professional that
the plans and specifications meet standards set forth in the applicable codes,
rules, and regulations.
      (2)   After receiving preliminary approval of the plans from the city,
but prior to the commencement of construction of the public improvement, the
person shall obtain a right-of-way construction permit, and post a performance
bond or other security of sufficient amount to ensure completion of
construction. The right-of-way construction permit shall require that the
public improvement be completed within 24 months of the date of issuance, or
the bond or other security will be forfeited. The proceeds from the forfeiture
shall be used by the city to complete the improvement.
      (3)   All public improvement shall be constructed according to the plans
and specifications as approved by the city. The permittee shall retain
qualified inspectors or engineers during construction to ensure the public
improvement is constructed according to the approved plans and specifications.
At the time the public improvement is completed, the permittee shall provide
the city with two sets of as-built drawings certifying that construction was
completed according to the approved plans and specifications, along with copies
of all inspections or engineers’ reports.
   (B)   If the permittee is unable to complete the improvement within the 24-
month period, the City Manager may grant a one-year extension upon good cause
shown. Extensions beyond the one-year period may be granted by the Council,
upon good cause shown. If an extension is granted, no other right-of-way use
permit shall be issued to the permittee until the public improvement is
completed, unless the permit is first approved, in writing, by the City
Manager. Any extension shall be conditioned upon the permittee obtaining an
extension of the bond or other security and providing adequate documentation of
the extension to the city.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 FORM OF BOND OR OTHER SECURITY.
   (A)   The bond or security required by §
50.41 shall be in the form of a surety or performance bond, cash deposit, or
negotiable instrument. The cost of the public improvement shall be established
by a contract between the person and a contractor for the construction of the
improvement. The amount of the bond or other security shall be determined by
the City Manager, but in no case shall be in an amount less than the contract
price for the construction of the public improvement.
   (B)   The bond or other security shall:
      (1)   Name the city as the obligee;
      (2)   Be in a form approved by the City Attorney;
      (3)   Release shall be conditioned upon final approval of the development
and transfer of the public improvement to the city by dedication or other
instrument;
      (4)   Provide full warranty for the improvements for a minimum of two
years after the date the improvements are formally transferred to the city;
      (5)   Shall be subject to forfeiture if the permittee does not complete
the improvements within the stated period or, if the person creates a hazard
which poses imminent danger to public health or safety within the immediate
vicinity of the improvement and the permittee fails to commence correction
within 24 hours of the date notification of the danger is provided to the
permittee by the City Manager, in writing; and
      (6)   Shall cover all costs, liquidated damages, and attorney’s fees
incurred by the city as a result of the permittee’s failure to complete
construction within the specified time or to correct a hazard posing imminent
danger to public health or safety in a timely fashion.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 REVOCATION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Revocation. In addition to, and not in lieu of, the penalty in §
50.99 , the City Manager may revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter,
and file a claim against the permittee’s bond for violation of any provision of
this chapter, and may disqualify any permittee who engages in repeated
violations of this chapter from obtaining a permit.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   The permittee may appeal any decision revoking a permit or
disqualifying the permittee from obtaining permits to the City Council by
filing a notice of appeal, in writing, with the City Manager within 15 days of
the date of the City Manager’s decision.
      (2)   An appeal from the decision of the City Council shall be by writ of
review as provided by ORS 34.010 through 34.102.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter is a violation, and
shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $750 per violation. Each day
that a violation continues after notice of the violation is provided shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 02-2001, passed 1-8-2000)
CHAPTER 51: ADVANCED FINANCED DISTRICTS
Section
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Purpose
   
51.04   Applicability
   
51.05   Receipt of application
   
51.06   Direct analysis
   
51.07   Public hearing
   
51.08   Notification
   
51.09   Advanced financing resolution and agreement
   
51.10   Advanced finance reimbursement
   
51.11   Assessment of public property
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Advanced Financed Districts Chapter for
the City of Glendale”.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL COST. All direct or indirect costs incurred by the city in order to
deliver goods and services or to undertake a public improvement. The ACTUAL
COST of providing goods or services to a property or a property owner includes
the cost, or an allocated portion of the total amount of the ACTUAL COST, of
making a good or service available to the property owner, whether stated at a
minimum, fixed, or variable amount. ACTUAL COST includes, but is not limited
to, the cost of labor, materials, attorney’s fees, supplies, equipment rental,
property acquisition, permits, financing, engineering, administration,
reasonable program delinquencies, return on investment, required fees,
insurance, administration, accounting, depreciation, amortization, operation,
maintenance, repair or replacement, and debt service, including debt service
payments or payments into reserve accounts for debt service and payments of
amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage requirements.
   ADVANCE FINANCING. A developer’s or the city’s payment for the installation
of one or more public improvements installed pursuant to this chapter which
benefitting property owners may utilize upon reimbursing a proportional share
of the cost of the improvement.
   ADVANCED FINANCING AGREEMENT. An agreement between a developer and the city,
as authorized by the City Council, and executed by the Manager, which agreement
provides for the installation of, and payment for, advance financed public
improvements, and may, in the agreement, require the guarantee or guarantees as
the city deems best to protect the public and benefitting property owners, and
may make the other provisions as the Council determines necessary and proper.
   ADVANCED FINANCING RESOLUTION. A resolution passed by the Council and
executed by the Manager designating a public improvement to be an advance
financed public improvement and containing provisions for financial
reimbursement by benefitting property owners who eventually utilize the
improvement and the other provisions as determined in the best interest of the
public by the Council.
   BENEFITTING PROPERTY OWNER. The freeholder of record of the legal title to
real property which, by virtue of installation of an advance financed public
improvement, may be served, all or in part, by the same. Where the real
property is being purchased under a recorded land sales contract, then the
purchasers shall also be deemed owners.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
      (1)   The grading, graveling, paving, or other surfacing of any street;
or opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the grade of,
or constructing any street;
      (2)   The construction of sidewalks;
      (3)   The construction or upgrading of any storm drains;
      (4)   Water improvements;
      (5)   Sanitary sewer improvements; or
      (6)   Any other public improvement authorized by the Council.
   CITY. The City of Glendale, Oregon.
   COUNCIL. The Glendale City Council.
   DEVELOPER. The city, an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a
corporation, a subdivider, a partition of land, or any other entity, without
limitation, who will bear, under the terms of this chapter, the expenses of
construction, purchase installation, or other creation of a public improvement.
   MANAGER. The City Recorder, City Manager, or City Administrator of the City
of Glendale.
   PROPORTIONAL SHARE. The amount of advanced financed reimbursement due from
the benefitting property owners calculated in accordance with §
51.10.
   RECORDER. The Recorder, Clerk, or other person or officer of the City of
Glendale serving as a clerk of the city or performing clerical work of the
city, or other official or employee as the governing body of the city shall
designate to act as RECORDER.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure orderly new development by
providing methods to finance necessary public improvements, and that necessary
public improvements are installed concurrently with, or before, the new
development occurs.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is also to allow the city to require that
new developments pay for installation costs of these necessary public
improvements, to assure that they are installed in accordance with the adopted
master plan, and to reimburse developers and/or the city for a share of costs
incurred if a development or improvement provides access to public improvements
for other benefitting property owners.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   When a development is to occur at locations where approved master
planning documents show new public improvements, the Council may condition its
approval of subdivisions, land partitions, and conditional use permits to
require that the customer enter into an advance financing agreement when the
Council deems the agreement will best protect the public and promote the
general welfare of the city. The developer, at his or her option, may
alternatively elect to be reimbursed by negotiating with the city for
reimbursement of added public improvements, where provisions and funds for the
negotiations exist, or by completing the public improvement without
reimbursement, or by a combination of methods.
   (B)   In accordance with §
51.03, the City Council may determine that an advance financed public
improvement will best protect the public and promote the general welfare of the
city by ensuring orderly new development. In the absence of a development
application, the Council may, by motion, designate the city or other public
entity as the developer and direct the Manager to prepare an advance financing
application.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.05 RECEIPT OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Council will receive applications at the city office, accompanied
by an application fee of $640, or the other amount and schedule that the city
may, from time to time, set by resolution for advance financed public
improvements. Applications shall also be accompanied by:
      (1)   Maps depicting tax lot and assessor’s information;
      (2)   An address list identifying affected adjacent properties and
owners;
      (3)   Engineering drawings approved by the Council;
      (4)   Project engineer’s cost estimate or actual cost in cases where the
improvement has been constructed; and
      (5)   Three independent bids or a project cost agreed upon by the
developer and the Council.
   (B)   The fee will be applied against the cost of administrative analysis of
the proposed advance financed public improvements, for the cost of notifying
the property owners, and for recording costs. When the city or other public
entity is the developer, the Council shall, by motion, direct the Manager to
submit the application to the city office without fee.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.06 DIRECT ANALYSIS.
   Upon receipt of the application for advance financed public improvements,
the Manager or his or her designee shall make an analysis of the advance
financed public improvements and shall prepare a report to be submitted to the
Council for review, discussion, and public hearing. The report shall include
those items submitted as part of the application package identified above.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.07 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Within a reasonable amount of time after the Manager has completed his
or her analysis, an informational public hearing shall be held in which all
parties and the general public shall be given the opportunity to express their
views and ask questions pertaining to the advance financed public improvement.
   (B)   Since advance financed public improvements do not give rise to
assessments, the public hearing is for informational purposes only and is not
subject to mandatory termination due to remonstrances.
   (C)   The Council has the sole discretion, after the public hearing, to
decide whether or not an advance financing resolution shall be passed.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.08 NOTIFICATION.
   Not less than ten or more than 30 days prior to any public hearing being
held pursuant to this section, the developer, all benefitting property owners,
and the general public shall be notified of the hearing and the purpose
thereof. Public notice shall be accomplished by a written notice posted at the
city office and other conspicuous locations as the Council may determine to be
appropriate, and by a written notice published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the community, once in either of two consecutive weeks prior to
the hearing. Notification of benefitting property owners shall also be
accomplished by regular mail or by personal service. If notification is
accomplished by mail, notice shall be made on the date that the letter of
notification is posted. Failure of any owner to be so notified shall not
invalidate or otherwise affect any advance financing resolution or the
Council’s action to approve or not approve the same.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.09 ADVANCED FINANCING RESOLUTION AND AGREEMENT.
   After the public hearing, held pursuant to §§
51.07 and
51.08, if the Council desires to proceed with an advance financed public
improvement, it shall pass an advanced financing resolution accordingly. The
resolution shall designate the improvement as an advance financed public
improvement and provide for advance financed reimbursement by benefitting
property owners pursuant to this chapter. When the developer is a private
developer, the Council will enter into an agreement between the developer and
the city pertaining to the advance financed public improvement and may, in the
agreement, require the guarantee or guarantees as the city deems best to
protect the public and benefitting property owners, and may make the other
provisions as the Council determines necessary and proper.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.10 ADVANCED FINANCE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. An advance financed reimbursement is imposed on all
benefitting property owners at the time as the owners apply for access or
connection to the advance financed public improvement or apply for building
permits for projects that utilize an advance financed public improvement.
   (B)   Rates. Benefitting property owners shall pay advance financed
reimbursement as calculated by the use of any method of appointing the actual
cost, or estimated actual cost, to be assessed is just and reasonable among the
properties determined to be specifically benefitted and consistent with the
State Constitution and state laws.
      (1)   If the advance financed public improvement was completed by the
city, the reimbursement to the city shall be the total cost of the improvement
increased by 7% annual simple interest (or the other interest rate as the
Council may, from time to time, set by resolution) including the use of:
         (a)   Any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of the
advanced finance district boundaries consistent with the benefits derived;
         (b)   The use of any method of appointing the actual cost among the
properties to be specifically benefitted which is just and reasonable; and
         (c)   If, in the opinion of the Council, there is a general public
benefit which will result from the public improvement, or when the Council
otherwise believes it to be just and reasonable, the city may contribute funds
towards the local improvement.
      (2)   If the advance financed public improvement was completed without
the issuance of debt by the city, the reimbursement to the city shall be up to
the total cost of the improvement increased by the interest rate, as set forth
above, multiplied by a percentage of front footage owned by benefitting
property owners of the total front footage of the advance financed public
improvement.
      (3)   Advanced financing reimbursement for odd-shaped lots shall be
individually established and consistent with the benefit received by the lots
in the area. If inequities are created through the strict implementation of the
above formulas, the Council may modify its impact on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Collection.
      (1)   The advance financed reimbursement is immediately due and payable
by benefitting property owners upon their application for connection to an
advance financed public improvement or any building permit the result of which
will utilize any advance financed public improvement. If connection is made or
construction commenced without the above-mentioned permits, then the advance
financed reimbursement is immediately due and payable upon the earliest date
that the permit was required.
      (2)   No permit for connection shall be issued until the advance financed
reimbursement is paid in full or otherwise processed in accordance with this
chapter. Whenever the full and correct advance financed reimbursement is due
and has not been paid and collected for any reason, the Manager shall report to
the Council the amount of the uncollected reimbursement, the description of the
real property to which the reimbursement is attributable, the date upon which
the reimbursement was due, and the name or names of the benefitting property
owners. The Council, by motion, shall then set a public hearing and shall
direct the Manager to give notice of the hearing to each of those benefitting
property owners, together with a copy of the Manager’s report concerning the
unpaid reimbursement, either in person or by certified mail. At the public
hearing, the Council may accept, reject, or modify the Manager’s report; and if
it finds that any reimbursement is unpaid and uncollected, the Council, by
motion, may direct the city officer to record the unpaid and uncollected
reimbursement in the County Record of Liens. Upon completion of the recording,
the city shall have a lien against the described land for the full amount of
the unpaid advance financed reimbursement, interest, and the city’s actual cost
of serving notice upon the benefitting property owners. The lien shall be
enforced in the manner provided by ORS Chapter 223.
   (D)   Payment installments. Whenever an advance financed reimbursement is
due and collectable, the benefitting property owner may, as an option to paying
the charge in full, apply for payment installments in the manner provided for
in ORS 223.205 through 223.295 using forms provided at the city office.
   (E)   Disposition of advance financed reimbursements. Developers shall
receive advance financed reimbursements collected by the city pertaining to
their respective advance financed public improvements. The reimbursement shall
be delivered to the developer for a period of 20 years from the date of the
applicable advance financing agreement has been executed. The reimbursement
will be made by the city within 90 days of receipt of the advance financed
reimbursements. Advance financed reimbursements not paid the developer under
the terms of this chapter shall be retained by the city to be used for related
system improvements as authorized from time to time by the Council.
   (F)   Recording. All advance financed resolutions shall be recorded by the
city in the deed records of the county. The resolutions shall identify full
legal descriptions of the benefitting properties. Failure to make the
recordings shall not affect the legality of an advance financing resolution or
agreement.
   (G)   Public improvements. Public improvements installed pursuant to advance
financing agreements shall become and remain the sole property of the city
pursuant to the advance financing agreements and advance financed
reimbursement, not paid to the developer during the ten-year period, as set
forth in division (F) above, shall be paid to the city to be used for related
system improvements as authorized from time to time by the Council.
   (H)   Multiple public improvements. More than one public improvement may be
the subject of an advanced financing agreement or resolution.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.11 ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever all or any part of the cost of public improvements is to be
assessed as the property benefitted thereby, benefitted property owned by the
city, county, school district, state, and any political subdivision thereof
shall be assessed in the same manner as private property. The amount of the
assessment shall be paid by the city, school district, county, or state, as the
case may be, provided that the cost of the improvements are, in any given case
of the type that may be bonded under this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of property owned by the state, the amount of the
assessment shall be certified by the Manager and filed with the Executive
Department of the state as a claim for reference to the Legislative Assembly in
the manner provided by state law unless funds for the payment of the assessment
have otherwise been provided by law.
(Ord. 334-99, passed 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 52: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Findings
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Scope
   
52.04   Definitions
System Development Charge Regulations
   
52.15   System development charge establishment
   
52.16   Methodology
   
52.17   Authorized expenditures
   
52.18   Expenditure restrictions
   
52.19   Improvement plan
   
52.20   Collection of charge
   
52.21   Installment payment
   
52.22   Delinquent charges; hearing
   
52.23   Exemptions
   
52.24   Credits
   
52.25   Segregation and use of revenue
   
52.26   Appeal procedure
   
52.27   Notice
   
52.28   Prohibited connection
   
52.29   Construction
Water System Development Charges
   
52.40   Determinations and findings
   
52.41   Definitions
   
52.42   Water system development charge methodology
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The state legislature, through the enactment of ORS 223.297 to
223.314, has authorized local governments in the state to establish system
development charges (SDC) on new development.
   (B)   The imposition of SDCs ensures that new development bears a
proportionate share of the cost of providing essential capital facilities and
improvements necessary to accommodate the development as determined in a
methodology as outlined in ORS 223.297.
   (C)   SDCs established by this chapter are derived from, and based upon, and
do not exceed the cost of maintaining the existing level of services
necessitated by the new development for which the fee is levied.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of a system development charge is to impose a portion of the
cost of capital improvements for water, waste water, drainage, streets, flood
control, and parks upon those developments that create the need for, or
increase the demands on, capital improvements.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.03 SCOPE.
   The system development charge imposed by this chapter is separate from and
in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, charge, or fee otherwise
provided by law or imposed as a condition of development.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
52.01 through
52.04 and
52.15 through
52.29, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Facilities or assets used for:
      (1)   Water supply, treatment, and distribution;
      (2)   Waste water collection, transmission, treatment, and disposal;
      (3)   Drainage and flood control;
      (4)   Transportation; or
      (5)   Parks and recreation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Conducting a building or mining operation, making a physical
change in the use or appearance of a structure or land, dividing land into two
or more parcels (including partitions and subdivisions), and creating or
terminating a right of access.
   IMPROVEMENT FEE. A fee for cost associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
52.15.
   LAND AREA. The area of a parcel of land as measured by projection of the
parcel boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of
the parcel within a recorded right-of-way or easement subject to a servitude
for a public street or scenic or preservation purposes.
   OWNER. The owner or owners of record title or the purchaser or purchasers
under a recorded sales agreement, and other persons having an interest of
record in the described real property.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A lot, parcel, block, or other tract of land that is
occupied or may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that
includes the yards and other open spaces required under the zoning,
subdivision, or other development ordinances.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. A capital improvement that is:
      (1)   Required as a condition of residential development approval;
      (2)   Identified in the plan adopted pursuant to §
52.19; or
      (3)   Not located on or contiguous to a parcel of land that is the
subject of the residential development approval.
   REIMBURSEMENT FEE. A fee for the cost associated with capital improvements
constructed or under construction on the date the fee is adopted pursuant to §
52.15.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE. A reimbursement fee, an improvement fee, or a
combination thereof. An SDC will be collected at the time of increased usage of
a capital improvement, at the time of issuance of a development permit or a
building permit, or at the time of connection to the capital improvement.
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE includes that portion of the sewer or water system
connection charge that is greater than the amount necessary to reimburse the
city for its average cost of inspecting and installing connections with water
and sewer facilities. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE does not include fees assessed
or collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge in lieu of a
local improvement district assessment, or the cost of complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   System development charges shall be established and may be revised by
ordinance of the City Council.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of this chapter or other
local or state law, a system development charge is hereby imposed upon all
parcels of land within the city, and upon all lands outside the boundary of the
city that connect to or otherwise use the sewer facilities, storm sewers, or
water facilities of the city.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.16 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   A methodology for establishing the improvement fee or the
reimbursement fee, or both, shall be contained in, and adopted by, resolution
of the City Council. Any changes or amendments to the methodology shall be made
by resolution.
   (B)   The methodology used to establish the reimbursement fee shall consider
the cost of then-existing facilities, prior contributions by then-existing
users, the value of unused capacity, rate-making principals employed to finance
publicly owned capital improvements, and other relevant factors identified by
the Council. The methodology shall promote the objective that future system
users shall contribute no more than an equitable share of the cost of then-
existing facilities.
   (C)   The methodology used to establish the improvement fee shall consider
the cost of projected capital improvements needed to increase the capacity of
the systems to which the fee is related.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.17 AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital improvements
associated with systems for which the fees are assessed, including expenditures
relating to repayment of indebtedness.
   (B)   Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity increasing capital
improvements, including expenditures relating to repayment of future debt for
the improvements. An increase in system capacity occurs if a capital
improvement increases the level of performance or service provided by existing
facilities or provides new facilities. The portion of improvement funded by
improvement fees must be related to demands created by development.
   (C)   A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan adopted by the
city pursuant to §
52.19.
   (D)   Notwithstanding divisions (B) and (C) above, system development charge
revenues may be expended on the direct cost of complying with the provisions of
this chapter, including the cost of developing system development charge
methodologies and providing an annual accounting of system development charge
expenditures.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.18 EXPENDITURE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   System development charges shall not be expended for costs associated
with the construction of administrative office facilities that are more than an
incidental part of other capital improvements.
   (B)   System development charges shall not be expended for maintenance of
capital improvements.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.19 IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   Prior to the establishment of a system development charge, the Council shall
adopt a plan that lists the capital improvements that may be funded with
improvement fee revenues; lists the estimated cost and time of construction of
each improvement; and describes the process for modifying the plan. In adopting
this plan, the Council may incorporate by reference all or a portion of any
public facilities plan, master plan, capital improvement plan, or similar plan
that contains the information required by this section. The Council may modify
the plan and list at any time. A change in the amount of a reimbursement fee or
an improvement fee is not a modification of the system development charge if
the change in the amount is based on the periodic application of an adopted
specific cost index or a modification to any of the factors related to the
rates that are incorporated in the established methodology.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998; Ord. 02-2003, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 52.20 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   (A)   Applicable system development charges are payable upon issuance of:
      (1)   A building permit or a development permit;
      (2)   A land use permit or action not requiring the issuance of a
building permit;
      (3)   A permit to connect to the water system; or
      (4)   Permit to connect to the sewer system.
   (B)   If development is connected or connection is made to the water and
sewer system without an appropriate permit, the system development charge is
immediately due and payable.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall collect the applicable system development
charge from the owner of the parcel when a permit that allows building or
development of a parcel is issued or when a connection to the water or sewer
system of the city is made.
   (D)   The City Recorder shall not issue the permit or allow the connection
until the charge has been paid in full or until provision for installment
payments has been made pursuant to §
52.21, or unless an exemption is granted pursuant to §
52.23.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998; Ord. 02-2003, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 52.21 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   When a system development charge of $25 or more is due and
collectible, the owner of the parcel of land subject to the development charge
may apply for payment in 20 semi-annual installments, to include interest on
the unpaid balance, in accordance with ORS 223.208.
   (B)   The city shall provide application forms for installment payments,
which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of the lien,
except for the correction of computation errors.
   (C)   An application for installment payments shall have the burden of
demonstrating the applicant’s authority to assent to the imposition of a lien
on the parcel and that the interest of the applicant is adequate to secure
payment of the lien.
   (D)   The city shall record the amount of the system development charge, the
dates on which the payments are due, the name of the owner, and the description
of the parcel.
   (E)   The city shall docket the lien in the lien docket and record the
installment payment contract in the county lien records. From that time, the
city shall have lien upon the described parcel for the amount of the system
development charge, together with the interest on the unpaid balance at the
rate established by Council. The lien shall be enforceable in the manner
provided in ORS Chapter 223.
(Ord. 02-2003, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 52.22 DELINQUENT CHARGES; HEARING.
   (A)   When, for any reason, the system development charge has not been paid,
the City Recorder shall report to the Council the amount of the uncollected
charge, the description of the real property to which the charge is
attributable, the date upon which the charge was due, and the name of the
landowner. Notice of the Council meeting shall be given to the property owner,
including a copy of the City Recorder report and a statement declaring the
city’s intent to discuss the matter at a regularly scheduled Council meeting.
Notice shall be delivered either personally or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by both personal and mailed notice, and by posting notice
on the parcel at least ten days before the set date of the hearing.
   (B)   At the meeting, if the Council finds that a systems development charge
is unpaid and uncollected, it shall, by motion, direct the City Recorder to
docket the unpaid and uncollected system development charge in the lien docket.
Upon completion of the docketing, the city shall have a lien against the
described land for the full amount of the unpaid charge, together with interest
at the legal rate of 10% and with the city’s actual cost of serving notice of
the meeting on the owners. The lien shall be enforceable in the manner provided
in ORS Chapter 223.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Structures and uses established and existing on or before the
effective date of §§
52.01 through
52.04 and
52.15 through
52.29 are exempt from a system development charge, except water and sewer
charges, to the extent of the structure or use then existing and to the extent
of the parcel of land as it is constituted on that date. Structures and uses
affected by this section shall pay the water and sewer charges pursuant to the
terms of this chapter upon the receipt of a permit to connect to the water or
sewer system;
   (B)   Additions to single-family dwellings that do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit, as defined by the State Uniform Building Code, are
exempt from all portions of the system development charge;
   (C)   An alteration, addition, replacement, or change in use that does not
increase the parcel structure’s use of the public improvement facility; and
   (D)   The City Council may exempt the city from all system development
charges if it finds that doing so is in the public interest.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.24 CREDITS.
   (A)   A system development charge shall be imposed when a change of use of a
parcel or structure occurs, but credit shall be given for the computed system
development charge to the extent that prior structures existed, and services
were established on or after the effective date of §§
52.01 through
52.04 and
52.15 through
52.29. The credit so computed shall not exceed the calculated system
development charge. No refund shall be made on account of the credit.
   (B)   A credit shall be given for the cost of a qualified public improvement
associated with a residential development. If a qualified public improvement is
located partially on and partially off the parcel that is the subject to
developmental approval, the credit shall be given only to the portion of the
improvement subject to not located on or wholly contiguous to the property.
   (C)   Credit provided for under this section shall be limited to the
improvement fee. No credit shall exceed the improvement fee even if the cost of
the capital improvement exceeds the applicable improvement fee.
   (D)   Credit shall not be transferable from one development to another.
   (E)   Credit shall not be transferred from one type of capital improvement
to another.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
§ 52.25 SEGREGATION AND USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All funds derived from a particular type of system development charge
are to be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the city.
Use of system development charge revenues shall be in strict accordance with §
52.17.
   (B)   The City Recorder shall provide an annual accounting by January 1 of
each year for system development charges showing the total amount of the system
development charge revenues collected for each type of facility and the
projects funded from each account in the previous fiscal year. A list of the
amount spent on each project funded in whole or in part with system development
charge revenues shall be included in the annual accounting.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998; Ord. 02-2003, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 52.26 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person aggrieved by a decision required or the action of the City
Recorder under §§
52.01 through
52.04 and
52.15 through
52.29, or a person challenging a specific use of system development charge
revenues, may appeal to the City Council by filing a written request with the
City Recorder describing his or her complaint and requesting an appeal.
   (B)   (1)   Appeal of a specific revenue use must be filed within two years
of the date of the alleged improper use.
      (2)   Appeals on any other decision must be filed within ten days of the
date of the decision.
   (C)   The Council shall decide all appeals made pursuant to this section. If
the Council determines that there has been an improper expenditure of system
development charge revenue, the Council shall direct that a sum equal to the
misspent amount shall be deposited within one year to the credit of the account
or fund to replace the misspent money. The decision of the Council shall be
judicially reviewed only as provided in ORS 34.010 to 34.100.
   (D)   A legal action challenging the methodology adopted by the Council
pursuant to §
52.16 shall not be filed later than 60 days after the adoption.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998; Ord. 02-2003, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 52.27 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a list of persons who have made a written
request for notification prior to adoption or amendment of a methodology for
any system development charge. Written notice shall be mailed to persons on the
list at least 90 days prior to the first hearing to establish or modify a
system development charge. The methodology supporting the system development
charge shall be available at least 60 days prior to the first hearing to adopt
or amend a system development charge. The failure of a person on the list to
receive a notice that was mailed does not invalidate the action of the city.
   (B)   The city may periodically delete names from the list, but at least 30
days prior to removing a name from the list, the city must notify the person
whose name is to be deleted that a new written request for notification is
required if the person wishes to remain on the notification list.
   (C)   The city shall advise a person who makes a written objection to the
calculation of a system development charge of the right to petition for review
pursuant to ORS 34.010 to 34.100.
(Ord. 02-2003, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 52.28 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person may connect to the water or sewer systems of the city unless the
appropriate system development charge has been paid, or the lien or installment
payment method has been applied for and approved.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 CONSTRUCTION.
   The rules of statutory construction contained in ORS Chapter 174 are hereby
adopted, and by this reference, made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
WATER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
§ 52.40 DETERMINATIONS AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city adopts the Ord. 03-2004 recitals as findings and incorporates
them by reference in support of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The city has reviewed the water SDC calculations by Rural
Community Assistance Corporation (RCAC) and adopts the calculations and makes
the findings and conclusions therein a part of the record.
      (2)   More particularly, the city hereby finds that meter size is a
rational basis to allocate use of the city’s water system, and provide valid
proportional basis for allocating the reimbursement value for water system
capital.
   (C)   The city hereby finds that the fees and charges herein are not taxes
subject to the limitations of Article XI, § 11 or 11(b), of the State
Constitution.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 52.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any individual, firm, company, corporation, association, society,
group, or owner who receives water service from the city.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. Duly promulgated code, ordinances, rules, and
regulations of the City of Glendale and its duly constructed departments,
agents, agencies, and employees.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The installation which connects the water service line
with the building water service, which includes, but shall not be limited to,
the following: pipeline; meter; meter box; meter vault; check valves; fittings;
seals; or other materials to make the connection as deemed necessary by the
city.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   WATER SERVICE LINE. The water connection line from the water main line to
the property line.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 52.42 WATER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The above findings and the report presented 2-26-2004 attached to Ord.
03-2004 as Exhibit A are hereby adopted as the supporting methodology for the
water system development charge established by this subchapter.
   (B)   The amount of the water system development charge shall be $2,040 per
equivalent dwelling unit for new development or for increases to capacity
required, such as increased meter size.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §§
52.01 through
52.04 and/or
52.15 through
52.29 are punishable by a civil fine not to exceed 10% of the system
development charge due.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-20-1998)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Rules and Regulations
   
53.01   Short title; scope
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Service area
   
53.04   Description of service
   
53.05   Application for service
   
53.06   Main extensions
   
53.07   Services
   
53.08   Meters
   
53.09   Water rates
   
53.10   Notices
   
53.11   Billing and payment
   
53.12   Meter error
   
53.13   Discontinuance of service
   
53.14   Restoration of service
   
53.15   Unusual demands
   
53.16   Access to property
   
53.17   Responsibility for equipment
   
53.18   Fire hydrants
   
53.19   Suspension of rules; easement
   
53.20   Deposit refunds under $5
Water Supply Cross-Connections
   
53.30   Purpose and scope
   
53.31   Definitions
   
53.32   Cross-connections
   
53.33   Use of backflow prevention devices
   
53.34   Cross-connection inspection
   
53.35   Liability
Water Emergencies
   
53.50   Definitions
   
53.51   Application of regulations
   
53.52   Summer irrigation
   
53.53   During general fire alarm
   
53.54   Use of water during emergency
   
53.55   Exception to maintain sanitation
   
53.56   Length of restriction and prohibition
   
53.57   Declaration of water emergency
   
53.58   Authority of officer
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 53.01 SHORT TITLE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Short title. Sections
53.01 through
53.19 shall be known as “Rates, Rules, and Regulations for the Operation of the
Water Department of the City of Glendale, Douglas County, Oregon”, and may be
so cited and pleaded.
   (B)   Scope. The Water Department and all customers receiving services from
the Water Department, whether inside or outside the city limits, are bound by
these rules and regulations of the Water Department.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person or persons, firm, or corporation making application
for water service from the Water Department under the terms of these
regulations.
   CITY. The legally constituted municipal government of the City of Glendale,
Douglas County, Oregon.
   CITY COUNCIL. The legally elected group of members composing the City
Council, including the Mayor, of the City of Glendale, Oregon.
   CUSTOMER or USER. An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of
these regulations and who receives the water service from the Water Department.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to superintend the
affairs of the Water Department.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the City of Glendale, Oregon.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.03 SERVICE AREA.
   The area served by the Water Department shall be all that area included
within the corporate limits of the city and the other contiguous and
neighboring territory as the City Council shall, from time to time, deem
necessary to serve.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.04 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Supply.
      (1)   The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence and care to
deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer at a
reasonable pressure and to avoid so far as reasonably possible any shortage or
interruption in delivery.
      (2)   The Water Department shall not be liable for damage resulting from
the interruption in service or from the lack of service. Temporary suspension
of service by the Water Department for improvements and repairs will be
necessary occasionally. Whenever possible, and when time permits, all customers
affected will be notified prior to shutdowns.
   (B)   Quality. The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence to
supply safe and potable water at all times.
   (C)   Ownership of system. All water mains, valves, fittings, hydrants, and
other appurtenances, except customer service lines, as defined in §
53.07(A), shall be the property of the Water Department.
   (D)   Classes of service. The classes of service shall be residential,
commercial, standby fire, and contract as further qualified by the number after
the class as follows: 1 (inside city limits); and 2 (outside city limits).
      (1)   Residential service. Residential services shall consist of all
services for domestic purposes, single-family dwellings, homes, and municipal
purposes.
      (2)   Commercial service. Commercial services shall consist of those
services where water is used for commercial services, such as businesses and
multi-family dwellings.
      (3)   Standby fire service. Standby fire service shall consist of those
services where water is available or used for fire protection only.
      (4)   Contract service. Contract services shall consist of those services
for industrial or independent water district purposes under contracts
authorized by the City Council.
   (E)   Special contracts. When the applicant’s requirements for water are
unusual or large, such as an independent water district, or necessitate
considerable special or reserve equipment or capacity, the Water Department, by
authorization of the City Council, reserves the right to make special contract,
the provisions of which are different from and have exceptions to the regularly
published water rates, rules, and regulations. This special contract shall be
in writing, signed by the applicant, and approved by the City Council and City
Attorney and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder of the city.
   (F)   Resale or gift of water. Resale or gift of water shall be permitted
only under special contract, in writing, between the City Council and the
persons, parties, or corporation selling the water.
   (G)   Service preference. In case of shortage of supply, the Water
Department reserves the right to give preferences in the matter of furnishing
service to customers and interests of the Water Department from the standing of
public convenience or necessity. Water service to users outside of the city
limits shall at all times be subject to the prior and superior rights of the
customers within the city limits.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.05 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application form. Each applicant for water service shall sign an
application form provided by the Water Department giving the date of
application, location of premises to be served, the date the applicant desires
services to begin, purpose for which service is to be used, the address for
mailing of the billings, the class and the size of the meter service and the
other information as the Water Department may reasonably require. In signing
the application, the customer agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of
the Water Department. The application is merely a written request for service
and does not bind the Water Department to serve.
   (B)   Deposits and establishment of credit. At the time application for
service is made, the applicant shall establish his or her credit with the Water
Department.
      (1)   Establishment of credit. The credit of the applicant will be deemed
established if the applicant makes a cash deposit with the Water Department to
secure the payment of bills for service. The deposit shall be a sum equal to
the base residential utility bill for two months’ service.
      (2)   Deposits. At the time the deposit is given to the Water Department,
the applicant will be given a receipt for the same. The deposit is not to be
considered as a payment on account. In the event the service is discontinued,
the deposit will be applied on the closing bill and any amount in excess of the
closing bill will be refunded. The Water Department will not pay interest on
any deposit.
      (3)   Forfeiture of deposit. If an account becomes delinquent and it is
necessary to turn off the service, the deposit shall be applied to the unpaid
balance due. Water service will not be restored to that premises or that
customer at different premises until all outstanding bills due the Water
Department have been paid and the cash deposit replaced, together with a $30
service charge as provided in §
53.11(F)(4).
   (C)   Application amendments.
      (1)   Customers desiring a material change in the size, character, or
extent of equipment or operation which would result in a material change in the
amount of water used shall give the Water Department written notice of the
change prior to the change and the application for service shall be amended.
      (2)   Customers desiring a change in the size, location, or number of
services shall fill out an amended application.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974; Ord. 04-2002, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 53.06 MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Within the city limits. Water main extensions to areas within the city
limits not presently served with water shall be installed under procedures to
be established by the City Council. Subdividers for newly partitioned
properties will assume all costs of main extensions with the approval of the
City Council.
   (B)   Outside the city limits. Water mains outside the city limits shall be
extended only at the expense of the customers served. The main extensions shall
become the property of the Water Department at the time installed. The City
Council shall determine the size of the main extensions and all extensions
shall be of a suitable material approved by the City Council. Extensions
outside the city limits shall be installed by the Water Department or by
contractors approved by the Water Department. The installation procedures and
materials used shall be in accordance with the city and the state standards.
   (C)   Locations of extensions. The Water Department will make water main
extensions only on rights-of-way, easements, or publicly owned property.
Easements or permits secured for main extensions shall be obtained in the name
of the city, along with all rights and title to the main at the time the
service is provided to the customers paying for the extension.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 SERVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The part of the piping on the customer’s property
that connects the service to the customer’s distribution system.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system which
connects the meter to the main and shall normally consist of corporation stop,
service pipe, curb stop and box, meter, meter yoke, and meter box.
   (B)   Ownership, installation, and maintenance. The Water Department shall
own, install, and maintain all services, and installation and maintenance shall
only be performed by authorized employees of the Water Department. The customer
shall own, install, and maintain the customer service line.
   (C)   Service connection charge.
      (1)   At the time the applicant files for service where no service
previously existed, or if he or she is filing for a change in service size or
location, he or she shall submit with his or her application the service
connection charge.
      (2)   This charge is to cover the actual cost to the Water Department to
install the service from the main to the customer’s distribution system,
including the meter and the meter housing. The service connection charge shall
be as determined by the Water Department in the current published water rate
schedule.
   (D)   Size of service. The Water Department will furnish and install a
service of the size and at the locations as the applicant requests, provided
the requests are reasonable and that the size requested is one that is listed
by the Water Department. The minimum size of service shall be three-fourths
inch. The Water Department may refuse to install a service line which is
undersized or oversized as determined by a study and report of the
Superintendent to the City Council.
   (E)   Changes in service size. Permanent changes in the size of the service
line requested by the customer shall be paid by the customer on the basis of
actual cost to the Water Department for making the change.
   (F)   Length of service.
      (1)   Where the main is in a public right-of-way, the meter will be
placed at the right-of-way line nearest the property to be served for the
standard connection fee, provided the length of service line does not exceed
the width of the right-of-way.
      (2)   Where the main is on an easement or publicly owned property other
than designated rights-of-way, the services shall be installed to the boundary
of the easement or public property by the Water Department, provided the length
of service line does not exceed 30 feet.
      (3)   If, in either case cited above, the length of service line to the
meter location exceeds the maximum stated, the applicant shall pay the extra
cost of the line on the basis of actual cost to the Water Department for labor,
materials, and equipment, plus 15%.
   (G)   Joint service connections.
      (1)   The Water Department may, at its option, serve two or more premises
with one connection. On new service connections, the inside diameter of the
joint lines shall be sufficient to provide a carrying capacity of not less than
the combined capacity of individual service lines of the same size as the
meters installed.
      (2)   Service extensions from an existing service to other occupancies or
ownerships than that for which the existing service was intended shall not be
permitted, nor shall separate residences be permitted to receive service
through one meter except under special considerations approved by the City
Council.
   (H)   Number of service connections on premises. The owner of a single
parcel or property may apply for and receive as many services as he or she and
his or her tenants may require, provided his or her application or applications
meet the requirements of the policies, rules, and regulations. If there is more
than one family or one apartment on one meter, the property owner is to pay the
water and sewer.
   (I)   Standby fire protection service connections.
      (1)   Purpose. Standby fire protection service connections of a two-inch
size and larger will be installed only if adequate provisions are made to
prevent the use of water from the services for purposes other than fire
extinguishing. Sealed fire sprinkler systems with water-operated alarms shall
be considered as having the provisions. The Water Department may require that a
suitable detector check meter be installed in the standby fire protection
service connections, to which host lines or hydrants are connected. All piping
on the customer’s premises shall be installed in accordance with the plumbing
code of the state.
      (2)   Charges for service. Charges for standby fire protection service
will be stated in the published water rate schedule. No charge will be made for
water used in the standby fire protection services to extinguish accidental
fires or for routine testing of the fire protection system. The customers shall
pay the full cost of the standby fire protection service connection, any
required detector check meters, and any required special water meter installed
for the service to the standby connection.
      (3)   Violations of regulations. If water is used from a standby pipe
connection service in violation of these regulations, an estimate of the amount
used will be computed by the Water Department. The customer shall pay for the
water used at the regular rates, including the minimum charge based on the size
of the service connection and subsequent bills rendered on the basis of the
regular water rates.
   (J)   Fire service connections other than standby. A service having fire
protection facilities on the premises and water for other purposes flowing
through the same service connection shall be considered as an ordinary service
and metered as such. All water used through that service, regardless of its
use, will be charged at the regular rates.
   (K)   Temporary service connections. For water service of a temporary
nature, applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and material furnished by the
Water Department. The applicant shall also pay his or her water bill in advance
and based on an estimate of the quantity to be used, or he or she shall
otherwise establish satisfactory credit.
      (1)   Time limits. Temporary service connections shall be disconnected
and terminated within six months after installation unless an extension of time
is granted in writing by the Water Department.
      (2)   Charge for water served. Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established rates set forth in the
current water rate schedule.
      (3)   Installation charge and deposits. The applicant for temporary
service will be required:
         (a)   To pay the Water Department, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing all facilities necessary to furnish each service;
         (b)   To deposit an amount sufficient to cover bills for water during
the entire period the temporary service may be used, or to otherwise establish
credit approved by the Water Department; and
         (c)   To deposit with the utility an amount equal to the value of any
equipment loaned by the Water Department to the applicant under the terms of
division (K)(4) below.
      (4)   Responsibility for meters and installation.
         (a)   The customer shall use all possible care to prevent damage to
the meter or to any other loaned facilities of the Water Department.
         (b)   If the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making
repairs shall be deducted from the deposit refund.
         (c)   If the loaned materials are returned in satisfactory condition
and all bills paid, the full amount of the equipment deposit will be returned
to the temporary customer at the termination of service.
   (L)   Customer’s plumbing.
      (1)   Plumbing Code. The customer’s plumbing, which shall include the
customer’s service line and all plumbing, piping, fixtures, and other
appurtenances carrying or intended to carry water, sewer, or drainage, shall
comply with the Plumbing Code of the state.
      (2)   Control valves.
         (a)   1.   Customers shall install a suitable control valve in the
customer service line as close to the meter as possible, the operation of which
will control the entire water supply to the premises served.
            2.   In the event a customer’s service is discontinued for any
reason, a control valve must be installed, if none exists, as provided by this
section.
         (b)   It shall be a violation of these rules and regulations for the
customer to operate, or cause or permit unauthorized operation of, the meter
stop or any appurtenances on the service connection.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 METERS.
   (A)   Ownership. The Water Department will own and maintain all water
meters. The Water Department will not pay rent or any other charges for a meter
or other water facilities, including housing and connections on a customer’s
premises.
   (B)   Installation. Installation of water meters shall be performed only by
authorized employees of the Water Department. All meters shall be sealed by the
Water Department at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by one of its authorized employees.
   (C)   The size and type of meter. The applicant may request and receive any
size meter regularly stocked or furnished by the Water Department, provided the
request is reasonable and further provided that the meter is not greatly
oversized or undersized, as determined by the Water Superintendent. The Water
Department reserves the right to determine the type of meter to be installed.
   (D)   Location of meters. Meters shall normally be placed at the curb or
property lines; the meter will be installed wherever the applicant desires
within reason, but the location must be approved by the Water Department. The
meters will not be located in driveways or other location where damage to the
meter or its related parts may occur.
   (E)   Joint use of meters. The joining of several customers to take
advantage of the single minimum charges and large quantity rates shall be
prohibited, except under special contract, in writing, with the City Council.
   (F)   Changes in size or location. If for any reason a change in the size of
a meter and service is required, the installation will be accomplished on the
basis of a new connection, and the customer’s application shall be so amended.
Meters or services moved for the convenience of the customer will be relocated
only at the customer’s expense.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 WATER RATES.
   The water rates to be charged for each class of service, including minimum
charges, charges for water used over the minimum, and service connection
charges, shall be as follows:
   (A)   Residential service.
      (1)   Residential-1 (inside city limits). Minimum monthly charge, 400
cubic feet: in an amount as set by resolution of Council from time to time; and
      (2)   Residential-2 (outside city limits). Minimum monthly charge, 400
cubic feet: in an amount as set by resolution of Council from time to time.
   (B)   Commercial service.
      (1)   Commercial-1 (inside city limits). Minimum monthly charge, 400
cubic feet: in an amount as set by resolution of Council from time to time; and
      (2)   Commercial-2 (outside city limits). Minimum monthly charge, 400
cubic feet: in an amount as set by resolution of Council from time to time.
   (C)   Standby fire service (standby fire protection only). The rates are as
follows:
 
Size of Service Pipe Monthly Service Charge
2-inch               $2
3-inch               $3
4-inch               $4
6-inch               $6
8-inch               $8
 
   (D)   Contract service (industrial, independent water district, and all
other special contract authorized by the City Council). To the above minimum
monthly charges for usage in excess of 400 cubic feet shall be added charges
according to the following rates:
 
Next 400 cubic feet, rate per 100       $ *
Next 550 cubic feet, rate per 100       $ *
All over 1,350 cubic feet, rate per 100 $ *
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - See division (E) below.
 
   (E)   Water rates with meters. The city’s water rates provisions are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (F)   Service connection charge. The charge for installing a new service
which includes excavation and backfill, tapping the main, laying the pipe,
installing the meter, yoke, and meter box, and replacement of surfacing
materials shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size in Inches Service Connection Charge
3/4-inch or less     $250 or cost
1-inch               Dollar difference between 3/4-inch and 1-inch
Over 1-inch          Actual cost plus 20%
 
   (G)   Revision. These water rates may be revised at any time without
invalidating the remainder of these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974; Ord. 320, passed 11-2-1994; Ord. 05-2002, passed
4-8-2002)
§ 53.10 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notices to customers. Notices from the Water Department to the
customer will normally be given in writing and either mailed to or delivered to
him or her at his or her last known address. Where conditions warrant and in
emergencies, the Water Department may notify either by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices from customers. Notices from the customer to the Water
Department may be given by the customer or his or her authorized representative
orally or in writing at the office of the Water Department in the City Hall or
to an agent of the Water Department duly authorized to receive notices or
complaints.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.11 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Meter readings.
      (1)   Meters will be read and customers billed on the basis of the meter
reading to the nearest 25 cubic feet.
      (2)   The Water Department will keep an accurate account on its books of
all readings of meters and the account so kept shall be offered at all times,
places, and counts as prima facie evidence of the use of water service by the
customer.
   (B)   Rendering of bills.
      (1)   Billing period. All meters shall be read and bills rendered
therefor monthly.
      (2)   Bills for other than normal billing period. Opening or closing
bills, or bills that for any other reason cover a period containing 10% more
days or 10% less days than in the normal billing period, shall be prorated.
      (3)   Bills for more than one meter. All meters supplying a customer’s
premises shall be billed separately, except that, where the Water Department
has for operating purposes installed two or more meters in place of one, the
reading may be combined for billing.
   (C)   Disputed bills. When a customer disputes the correctness of a bill, he
or she shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill at the time the complaint
is lodged, to preclude discontinuance of service pending final settlement of
the bill or bills. Subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on deposit in a
similar manner. Failure of the customer to make the deposit shall warrant
discontinuance of service as provided under division (F) below.
   (D)   Failure to read meters. In the event that it shall be impossible or
impractical to read a meter on the regular reading date, the water consumption
shall be prorated on the basis of 30 days per month and the total water
consumption for billing purposes for that period shall be estimated.
   (E)   Payment of bills. Each bill rendered shall contain the final date on
which payment is due. If the bill is not paid by that date, the account shall
be considered delinquent, unless other arrangements have been made with the
Water Department in writing that specify another due date.
   (F)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Delinquent notice. A reminder of account delinquency may be sent,
at the discretion of the City Recorder, to each delinquent account on or about
ten days after the account becomes delinquent.
      (2)   Turn-off notice. At any time after an account becomes delinquent, a
turn-off notice may be sent to the customer. The notice shall state a date on
which water will be turned off if delinquent account is not paid in full prior
thereto.
      (3)   Service turn-off. On the turn-off date, the meter reader or other
agent of the city shall deliver a written notice to the customer stating that
the water service is being turned off until all delinquent amounts have been
paid. The meter reader or other agent of the city shall immediately thereafter
turn off the service. A delivery to the premises served by the meter shall be
considered a delivery to the customer.
      (4)   Service charge. In all instances where water has been turned off
because of delinquent accounts, a $30 service charge shall be made for the
restoration of services.
   (G)   Installment payments of delinquent accounts. In cases of extreme
hardship, the City Recorder shall have the discretion of renewal service to a
delinquent account upon receipt of a satisfactory installment plan for the
payment of the overdue amount, the installment period not to exceed the period
of time the account was delinquent.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974; Ord. 313, passed 3-14-1994; Ord. 03-2006, passed
9-12-2005)
§ 53.12 METER ERROR.
   (A)   Meter accuracy. All meters will be tested prior to installation. No
meter will be placed in service or allowed to remain in service which is known
to have an error in registration in excess of 2% under conditions of normal
operation.
   (B)   Meter test.
      (1)   Standard test. Meter tests will be conducted in accordance with
standards of practice established by the American Water Works Association.
      (2)   On customer request. A customer may, giving not less than seven
days’ notice, request the Water Department to test the meter servicing his or
her premises. The Water Department will require the customer to deposit the
testing fee. This fee shall be $25 for meters three-fourths inch and smaller.
For meters larger than three-fourths inch, the fee shall be an estimate of the
cost of testing the meter as determined by the Water Department. The deposit
will be returned to the customer if the test reveals the meter to over-register
more than 2% under the standard test conditions. If the meter is found to be
accurate, the deposit shall be retained by the Water Department. Customers may,
at their option, witness any meter tests which they request.
      (3)   On Water Department request. If, upon comparison of past water
usage, it appears that a meter is not registering properly, the Water
Department may, at its option, test the meter and adjust the charges
accordingly if the meter either over-registers or under-registers. No charge
for meter testing will be made to the customer for the meter test under these
conditions.
   (C)   Adjustment of bills for meter error.
      (1)   No credits or debits will be borne by the city or the customer
should the tested meter show variance high or low from the accuracy defined in
division (A) above.
      (2)   The Water Department will bill the customer for water consumed
while the meter was not registering. The bill will be computed upon an estimate
of consumption based either upon the customer’s prior use during the same
season of the year, or upon a reasonable comparison with the use of other
customers receiving the same class of service during the same season and under
similar circumstances and conditions.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974; Ord. 03-2002, passed 12-10-2001) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Discontinuance. It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility
service to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for
application for utility service shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill; and
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a turn-off notice
may be sent, stating the date on which water will be turned off if the
delinquent account is not paid in full prior thereto. This notice shall further
state that any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination. The turn-off date shall be at least seven days from the
date of the notice.
   (B)   Waivers. Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days.
   (C)   Reinstatement. When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue
utility service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be
reinstated only after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with
a turn-on charge in the sum of $30.
   (D)   Water waste. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer’s premises, seriously affecting the general service, the Water
Department may discontinue service if such conditions are not corrected after
due notice by the Water Department.
   (E)   Service detrimental to others. The Water Department may refuse to
furnish water and may discontinue service to any premises where excessive
demands by one customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   (F)   Fraud or abuse. The Water Department will refuse or discontinue
service to any premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the Water
Department from fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service from one or both of
these causes will be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the Water
Department that the condition or conditions exist.
   (G)   Unauthorized turn-on. Where the water service has been discontinued
for any reason and the water is turned on by the customer or other unauthorized
person, the water may then be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The
charges for shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be
computed at actual cost to the Water Department plus 15% overhead, but not less
than $____. These charges shall be billed to the offending customer and water
shall not be furnished to the premises or customer until such charges are paid
and the Water Department has reasonable assurance that the violation will not
reoccur.
   (H)   Noncompliance with regulations. The Water Department may, upon five
days’ notice discontinue service to a customer’s premises for failure to comply
with any of the provisions of these regulations.
§ 53.14 RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Restoration of service after discontinuance for nonpayment of bills
shall be made after payment of current and past due charges plus $30 for
restoration charge and posting a deposit as hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   (1)   Restoration of service after discontinuance of service for
unsafe facilities, water waste, fraud, abuse, or for noncompliance with any of
the policies, rules, or regulations will only be made after the irregularity
has been corrected and the Water Department has been assured that the
irregularity will not reoccur.
      (2)   The restoration charge shall be $30, plus any other charges due or
past due that the Water Department may have incurred to correct the
irregularity.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.15 UNUSUAL DEMANDS.
   (A)   When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a
swimming pool, log pond, or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with
the utility prior to taking the water.
   (B)   Permission to take water in unusual quantities will be given only if
the Water Department facilities and other consumers are not inconvenienced.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   All duly appointed employees of the Water Department, under the direction of
the Water Superintendent, shall have free access at all reasonable hours of the
day to any and all parts of structures and premises in which water is or may be
delivered for the purposes of inspecting connections, the conditions of
conduits and fixtures, and the manner and extent in which the water is being
used. The Water Department does not, however, assume the duty of inspecting the
customer’s line, plumbing, and equipment, and shall not be responsible
therefor.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility for customer equipment.
      (1)   The Water Department shall not be liable for any loss or damage of
any nature whatsoever caused by any defect in the customer’s line, plumbing, or
equipment, nor shall the Water Department be liable for loss or damage due to
interruption of service or temporary changes in pressure.
      (2)   The customer shall be responsible for valves on his or her premises
being turned off when the water service is turned on.
   (B)   Responsibility for Water Department equipment. Water Department
equipment on the customer’s premises remains the property of the Department and
may be repaired, replaced, or removed by the Department employees at any time
without consent of the customer. No payment will be made to the property owner
for the right to install, maintain, replace, or remove Water Department
equipment on his or her premises. The property owner must keep vicious dogs or
other animals secured or confined to avoid interference with the utility
operation and maintenance.
   (C)   Damage to Water Department equipment. The customer shall be liable for
any damage to equipment owned by the Water Department which is caused by an act
of the customer, his or her tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees,
or permittees. Damage to equipment shall include, but not be limited to,
breaking of seals and locks, tampering with meters, injury to meters,
including, but not limited to, damages by hot water or steam, and damaged meter
boxes, curb stops, meter stops, and other appurtenances.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.18 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Operation. No person or persons other than those designated and
authorized by the Water Department shall open any fire hydrant belonging to the
Water Department, attempt to draw water from it, or in any manner damage or
tamper with it. Any violation of this regulation will be prosecuted according
to law. No tool other than special hydrant wrenches shall be used to operate a
hydrant valve. In cases where a temporary service has been granted and received
water through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary external valve will be provided to
control the flow of water.
   (B)   Moving a fire hydrant. When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
locations specified by the proper authority, the Water Department has fulfilled
its obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change the size,
type, or location of the hydrant, he or she shall bear all costs of the
changes. Any changes in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by the
Water Department and the Fire Department.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.19 SUSPENSION OF RULES; EASEMENT.
   (A)   Suspension of rules. No employee of the Water Department is authorized
to suspend or alter any of the policies, rules, and regulations cited herein
without specific approval or direction of the City Council, except in cases of
emergency involving loss of life or property which would place the water system
in jeopardy.
   (B)   Easement. Each applicant and user gives and grants to the city an
easement and right-of-way on and across his or her property for the
installation of water mains and the necessary valves and equipment in
connection therewith.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 53.20 DEPOSIT REFUNDS UNDER $5.
   Refunds of $5 or less will be paid from the petty cash fund in person only,
to the registered account holder, within 30 days of the closing date on the
account. Amounts not claimed within 30 days will be forfeited to the city.
(Res. 03-11, passed 8-9-2010)
WATER SUPPLY CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 53.30 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health of water
consumers by the control of actual and/or potential cross-connections to
customers.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 53.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of water or mixtures of water and other
liquids, gases, or other substances into the distribution pipes of the potable
supply of water from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (APPROVED). A device that has been investigated
and approved by the regulatory agency having jurisdiction. The approval of
backflow prevention devices by the regulatory agency should be on the basis of
a favorable laboratory and field evaluation report by an approved testing
laboratory recommending the approval.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES (TYPE). Any approved device used to prevent
backflow into a potable water system. The type of device used should be based
on the degree of hazard either existing or potential.
   CITY. The City of Glendale.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a public water supply system of
any substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection or
structural arrangement between a public or consumer’s potable water system and
any other source or system through which it is possible to introduce into any
part of the potable system any used water, industrial fluid, gas, or substance
other than the intended potable water with which the system is supplied. By-
pass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover
devices, and other temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of
which, backflow can or may occur are considered to be CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. Derived from the evaluation of a health, system,
plumbing, or pollutional hazard.
   HAZARD, HEALTH. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical
or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer’s potable
water system that would be a danger to health.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. An internal or plumbing type cross-connection in a
consumer’s potable water system that may be either a pollutional or a
contamination-type hazard. This includes, but is not limited to, cross-
connections to toilets, sinks, lavatories, wash trays, domestic washing
machines, and lawn sprinkling systems. Plumbing type cross-connections can be
located in many types of structures, including homes, apartment houses, hotels,
and commercial or industrial establishments.
   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would not constitute a health or
system hazard, as defined. The maximum degree of intensity of pollution of
which the potable water system could be degraded under this definition would
cause a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause minor damage
to the system or its appurtenances.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe danger to the
physical properties of the public or consumer’s potable water system or a
pollution or contamination which would have a protected effect on the quality
of the potable water in the system.
   HEALTH DIVISION OFFICER. The Oregon State Health Division Office, or
authorized agent.
   MANAGER. The City Utility Manager of the City of Glendale.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic use.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 53.32 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   The installation or maintenance of a cross-connection which will endanger
the water quality of the potable water supply system of the city shall be
unlawful and is prohibited. Any cross-connections now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared to be a public hazard and the same shall be
abated. The control or elimination of cross-connections shall be in accordance
with this subchapter and in compliance with the OAR 331-061-0070. The Manager
shall have the authority to establish requirements more stringent than state
regulations if he or she deems that the conditions so dictate. The city shall,
through resolution of the City Council, make the rules and regulations as are
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter. Those officials
responsible for enforcement of the city’s building ordinances and regulations
are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this subchapter in the
inspection of existing, new, and remodeled buildings.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.33 USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the city unless the water supply is protected as required by
state law, state regulations, and this subchapter. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the city if a backflow prevention device
required by this subchapter is not installed, tested, and maintained, or if it
is found that a backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until the conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   The customer’s system should be open for inspection and tests at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine whether
cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including any
violation of this subchapter exist. When a condition becomes known, the
Superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition(s) in conformance with state and city laws relating to
plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (C)   If an approved backflow prevention device is to be installed on a
service line to a customer’s water system, it shall be installed near the
property line or immediately inside the building being served; but, in all
cases, before the first branch line leading off the service line.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
      (2)   Premises having cross-connections that are not correctable or have
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a history of cross-connections being established or
re-established;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include handling of process waters
and cooling waters;
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in a way that, if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard might
result; and
      (7)   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city determines that no hazard exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Metal plating industries;
         (d)   Piers and docks;
         (e)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (f)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (g)   Chemical plants using a water process;
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (j)   Facilities with fire service lines as specified by State Health
Division; and/or
         (k)   Others specified by the city.
   (E)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists.
      (1)   An air-gap separation or a reduced-pressure-principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      (2)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation, or a
reduced-pressure-principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed under the supervision, and with the approval, of the city.
   (G)   Any protective device required by this subchapter shall be approved by
the Manager.
   (H)   These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense
of the customer.
   (I)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where
backflow prevention devices are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made at least once per year.
      (2)   In those instances where the Manager deems the hazard to be great
enough, he or she may require certified inspections at more frequent intervals.
      (3)   These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water
user and shall be performed by a certified tester approved by the Manager.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the Manager to see that these timely tests
are made.
      (5)   The customer-user shall notify the Manager in advance when the
tests are to be undertaken so that the Superintendent or a representative may
witness the tests if so desired.
      (6)   These devices shall be repaired, overhauled, or replaced at the
expense of the customer-user whenever the devices are found to be defective.
      (7)   Records of the tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be kept and
copies sent to the Manager.
   (J)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices.
   (K)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing, or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this
subchapter or by state law shall be grounds for the termination of water
service to the premises.
   (L)   All new structures shall have, at a minimum, an approved double-check
backflow prevention device installed immediately adjacent to the water meter on
the customer side.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-1994; Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.34 CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the city for possible cross-connections and been approved as being
free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent
cross-connections, or as determined by the Manager, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the public water supply or any other location designated by the city.
   (C)   (1)   Inspections shall be made at the discretion of the Manager of
all buildings, structures, or improvements for the purpose of ascertaining
whether cross-connections exist.
      (2)   The inspections shall be made by the city.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.35 LIABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to hold the city responsible for any
damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or testing herein, or
the failure to inspect or test or by reason of approval of any cross-
connections.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-10-1994)
WATER EMERGENCIES
§ 53.50 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Glendale.
      PERSON. Any firm, partnership, association, corporation, including a
municipal corporation and a subdivision of the state, company, or other
organization of any kind.
      SHALL. Always mandatory and not merely directory.
      WATER. Water from the city water supply system.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, the words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 53.51 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all persons using water,
both in and outside the city, regardless of whether any person using water
shall have a contract for water service with the city.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 53.52 SUMMER IRRIGATION.
   (A)   During the period commencing May 1 through October 31, no person shall
use water for the sprinkling, watering, or irrigation of shrubbery, trees,
lawns, grass, grounds, covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers, or
any other vegetation, except as permitted below:
      (1)   Irrigation may be carried on in the uneven-house-numbered side of
the street on the uneven-numbered days of the month; and
      (2)   Irrigation may be carried on in the even-house-numbered side of the
street on the even-numbered days of the month.
   (B)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit
irrigation at any time or place when it is forbidden by any other provision of
this subchapter or any other ordinance.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.53 DURING GENERAL FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall use water for irrigation during the period when a general
alarm fire is in progress within the city.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.54 USE OF WATER DURING EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor with the approval of the City Council finds, on the basis
of the water storage reserves, that the amount of water available and the
probable use of water or the probable drawing thereon from the city mains makes
it necessary that there be a conservation of the water to protect the citizens
and property in the city, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council,
shall be and he or she is hereby empowered to declare a water emergency and
thereafter to put into effect a water-using prohibition on all or any part of
the following uses of water; and during the time, the uses of the water for the
purpose for which the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, announces
that water use is prohibited shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Watering yards. The sprinkling, watering, or irrigating of shrubbery,
trees, lawns, grass, grounds, covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables,
flowers, or any other vegetation;
   (B)   Washing mobile equipment. The washing of automobiles, trucks,
trailers, trailer houses, railroad cars, or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning of equipment, machinery, or outdoor surfaces. The washing and
cleaning of any industrial equipment, machinery, sidewalks, driveways, filling
stations, aprons, porches, and other outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Cleaning buildings. The washing of the outside of buildings, and this
shall include dwellings or accessory buildings about or upon premises;
   (E)   Ornamental fountains. The operation of any ornamental fountain or
other structure making a similar use of water; and
   (F)   Swimming pools. The filling or adding to of any swimming or wading
pool.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.55 EXCEPTION TO MAINTAIN SANITATION.
   The City Superintendent, after written notice to the Mayor, shall have the
authority to permit a reasonable use of water in any case necessary to maintain
adequate health and sanitation standards.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 53.56 LENGTH OF RESTRICTION AND PROHIBITION.
   The prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by announcement of
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council in accordance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 53.57 DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall cause each declaration made by him or her pursuant to
this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of radio broadcast from any
radio station with its normal operating range covering the city, and he or she
may cause the declaration to be further announced in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city when feasible. Each announcement shall prescribe
the action taken by the Mayor, including the time it became or will become
effective, and shall specify the particular use for which the use of water be
prohibited.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor shall find the conditions which gave rise to the
water prohibition in effect pursuant to this subchapter no longer exist, he or
she may declare the prohibition terminated in whole or in part in the manner
prescribed by this subchapter, effective immediately upon announcement.
   (C)   The Mayor shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and
date when any declaration is announced to the public in accordance with this
section, and this includes the notice of termination, both in whole or in part.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 53.58 AUTHORITY OF OFFICER.
   Any employee of the city may enter upon the premises of any person for the
purpose of shutting off or reducing the flow of any water being used contrary
to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of a provision of §§
53.01 through
53.19, or an order issued under authority of §§
53.01 through
53.19, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates any provision of §§
53.30 through
53.35, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$200.
   (D)   A person who violates any provision of §§
53.50 through
53.58 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $25. Each day the violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-13-1974; Ord. 249, passed 7-11-1977; Ord. 319, passed 10-
10-1994; Ord. 320, passed 11-2-1994)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Application, permit required
   
54.04   Connection fees
   
54.05   Required connections
   
54.06   Replacement of public ways
   
54.07   Materials and manner of construction
   
54.08   Building sewers
   
54.09   Public sewer use
   
54.10   Interceptors
   
54.11   Properly shredded garbage
   
54.12   Disposal of private sewage
   
54.13   Sewer service charge
   
54.14   Protection from damage
   
54.15   Industrial users
   
54.16   Sewer laterals
   
54.17   Water and sewer lateral connection fees
   
54.18   Deposit refunds under $5
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the general laws of the state, and the powers granted in
the Charter of the city, the Council of the city does hereby declare its
intention to acquire, own, construct, equip, operate, and maintain within and
without the city limits, a sewage disposal plant or plants, sewers, equipment,
and appurtenances necessary, useful, or convenient for a sewer system, and
disposal area, including the reconstruction of the sewers as may necessarily or
conveniently be deemed property.
   (B)   There is hereby levied and imposed upon all water users within the
city, using water from the city water system, whether or not the premises are
connected with the city sewer system, if a public sewer is available to which
connection can be made to the premises, as herein provided; and also against
all premises connected with the sewer system, whether the premises be within or
outside the city limits of the city, and whether or not the premises are
connected to the city’s water system, just and equitable charges for service,
connection, maintenance, operation, extension, and reconstruction.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the inner face of a building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMMERCIAL. All sewer users except residential.
      ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of Glendale, his or her
authorized assistants and inspectors.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except sewage and body wastes, including
wastes accumulated of animals, food, or vegetable matter, and including wastes
that attend the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat,
fish, fowl, fruit, and vegetables, and shall include all the wastes or
accumulations of vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels, and
places where food is prepared for human consumption. The term GARBAGE shall not
include recognized industrial by-products, nor shall it include cans, boxes,
cartons, paper, or other objects which may or may not have food or other
organic material of any nature in or adhering thereto.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from any non-governmental user of
publicly owned treatment works defined in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual 1972, Office of Management and Budget, under the
following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Service; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      MANAGER. The authorized representative of the City of Glendale.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or
other body of surface or ground water.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, association, society,
corporation, or group.
      pH. The acidity or alkalinity of sanitary or industrial waste. This is
equal to the hydrogen ion concentration as measured by the logarithm of the
reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in gram per liter of solution.
      PLUMBING REGULATIONS. The state plumbing laws, rules, and regulations
governing plumbing and water supply, as adopted by the State Board of Health,
State Bureau of Labor rules and regulations, and city specifications, rules,
and regulations.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer privately owned and constructed in conformance
with the provisions hereof.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to the degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, consisting of all
conduits placed or accepted by the city for public usage.
      RESIDENTIAL. One family unit under a single roof.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and from which storm,
surface, and ground waters are prohibited.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices or structures used for
treating sewage.
      SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial waters.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975)
§ 54.03 APPLICATION, PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall make a stub connection to any
part of the sanitary sewer system or storm sewer system of the city, without
first making an application and securing a permit therefor, and then only by
using an approved connection, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for sewer stub connection permits shall be made in writing
to the City Recorder in the form prescribed by the city and shall give the
location of the property, street number of the buildings to be connected, name
of the person, firm, or corporation engaged to make the connection, and a
statement as to whether or not the premises to be connected was in the past
assessed for the construction of a sanitary sewer onto which the applicant
desires to connect, and the other information or plans as may be required by
the city.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   All applications for connection to the sanitary or storm sewer system
shall be accompanied by a payment of a service and inspection fee. The amount
of the fees shall be set from time to time by resolution and made a part hereof
as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   If the property to which an applicant desires to make a sanitary sewer
connection has never been assessed for sewer improvements, then, in addition to
the service and inspection fee, the applicant shall pay a connection fee, which
the fee shall also be set by resolution, from time to time, and the resolution
shall become a part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975)
§ 54.05 REQUIRED CONNECTIONS.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley, or public right-of-way in which there is now located, or
may in the future be located, a city sanitary sewer, is hereby required at his
or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
the facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so;
provided that the public sewer is not more than 100 feet from the owner’s
nearest property line and connection is available through public right-of-way.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 REPLACEMENT OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   The applicant shall agree to pay the cost of replacing streets or alleys
excavated for the purpose of making the sewer connections covered by the
permit. Costs shall be paid in advance in accordance to rates established by
resolution, from time to time, regulating street cuts and establishing
reasonable rates for the replacement of the same. The widest cut at any one
point shall be considered the width of the cut. The city shall make all street
and alley cuts and replace the same.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 MATERIALS AND MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All laterals under public rights-of-way shall be constructed of one of
the following approved materials: cement asbestos; concrete; or cast-iron pipe.
The city shall make and provide all connections to sewer mains, trunks, or
laterals and extend all stub connections to sewer mains, trunks, or laterals
and extend all stub connections to the curb line of streets or property line of
alleys.
   (B)   All sewer connections to the stubs shall be constructed to conform
with the provisions of the State Plumbing Code. Connections to stubs within
public rights-of-way shall be made only by a licensed plumber or sewer
installer of the state and the city.
   (C)   The city shall not be liable for any cleaning, maintenance, upkeep, or
repair to any sewer connection between the main, trunk, or lateral and the
premises being served whether in public right-of-way, or not, unless the
necessity thereof was caused by the city, its agents, or employees.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed of concrete, asbestos cement,
or cast-iron pipe with rubber gaskets or lead caulked joints. Concrete grout
joints shall under no circumstances be an acceptable joint. Fittings for
angles, and the like, shall be pre-fabricated and standard. Mudding in angles
will not be acceptable unless approved in writing and inspected by the Manager.
Orangeburg, plastic, or fiber type pipe shall not be an approved type conduit.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be set to the approval
of the Manager, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches.
The slope of the four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighths-inch per
foot, and the slope of larger diameter pipe shall conform to standard city
specifications.
   (C)   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. Cast-iron pipe shall not terminate
less than five feet from the building, and a back water valve shall be at point
of leaving building and a cleanout shall be placed in every building sewer at
the junction with the soil pipe and at every change of alignment or grade
exceeding and including a 45-degree bend. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost, and
shall be laid with a minimum cover of 18 inches within the property line or
alley grade within street or alley right-of-way. The building sewer shall be
laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in
direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (D)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sewage carried by the drain shall be lifted
by mechanical, electrical, or pneumatic means approved by the Engineer and
discharged to the building sewer, and the property owner shall provide a back
water valve to prevent back flow of sewage.
   (E)   The city shall not be liable for any damage caused by back flow.
   (F)   Whenever possible, all building drains and building sewers shall be
installed not less than ten feet from a potable water supply. In the event that
this provision cannot be complied with, the applicant will proceed only under
special permit, and under the direction of the Manager. When circumstances
force the installer to cross potable water lines with sewer lines, the sewer
lines shall be installed under the water lines, and as near as possible to a
90-degree angle. Cast-iron pipe with caulked and leaded joints shall be used in
crossing water mains unless the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The bottom of the water piping at all points shall be at least 18
inches above the top of the
sewer piping.
      (2)   The water piping shall rest on a solid shelf on both sides of the
common trench crossing.
   (G)   All excavation required for the installation of a building sewer shall
be open trench work. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance
with standard city specifications, except that no backfill shall be placed
until the work has been inspected by the Manager.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09 PUBLIC SEWER USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof run off, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. Any existing
discharge of the waters into sanitary sewers shall be immediately discontinued.
   (E)   (1)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to the sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Manager.
      (2)   Industrial cooling water of unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, upon approval of the Engineer, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or waste into any public sanitary sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 F°;
      (2)   Any water or waste which contains more than 100 parts per million
by weight of fat, oil, or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure, or other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment facilities. Among substances that may be toxic
to sewer systems, human and animal are as follows: copper; chromium; cyanids;
lead; zinc; arsenic; nickel; phenol detergents; and wastes from nuclear
fission;
      (8)   Any water or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage treatment facilities; and/or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.10 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided by hotels,
restaurants, filling and service stations, laundries, meat packing plants,
woolen mills, milk processing plants, metal fabrication plants, and other
places when they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, and
other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Engineer and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place shall be watertight.
   (D)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. The Engineer shall ascertain that all interceptors are
cleaned and/or replaced at least once every month.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.11 PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.
   (A)   Although the exact specification of particle size range does not
appear possible at this time, some definition of properly shredded garbage is
required for the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   It is suggested that there be three requirements:
      (1)   Only food wastes be considered as garbage;
      (2)   All shredded particles shall be of the size that they will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers;
and
      (3)   All shredded particles shall have no dimension greater than one-
half inch.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975)
§ 54.12 DISPOSAL OF PRIVATE SEWAGE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewer disposal system complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, or before issuance of a permit, if the system is planned to be
constructed, whichever is prior, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the Engineer as required by ordinance of the city. Before issuing the
permit, the Engineer shall approve the plans and shall also have the plans
approved by the County Sanitarian.
   (C)   A private sewage disposal system shall not be used until the
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Engineer. The work shall
be inspected at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant
shall notify the Engineer when work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within two
days of receipt of the notes, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
   (D)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of this chapter. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 5,000 square feet.
No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   (E)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks cesspools, and
similar sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned, and filled with
suitable materials.
   (F)   All individual private sewage disposal systems shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   In determining a suitable location for the system, consideration
shall be given to the size and shape of the land area available, type of solid,
slope of natural and finished grade, depth of ground water, proximity to
existing or future water supplies, and possible expansion of the system.
      (2)   The sewage disposal system shall consist of a house sewer and a
septic or treatment unit with either a subsurface disposal field or one or more
seepage pits, or other disposal facilities approved by the Engineer.
      (3)   The system shall be designed to receive all sanitary sewage
including kitchen and laundry wastes, but excluding footing, surface, and roof
drainage.
      (4)   The system shall have adequate capacity to properly dispose of the
maximum daily sewage flow.
      (5)   Bulldozers, trucks, or any other heavy equipment shall not be
driven over the system during or after the construction.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.13 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Sewer service charges shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   If the sewer service charges are not paid when due by any person,
firm, or corporation whose premises are served or who are subject to the
charges herein provided, water service provided to that customer by the City
Water Department may be discontinued because of the default in the payment of
the sewer service charges.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975; Ord. 252, passed 12-12-1977; Ord. 321, passed 11-
2-1994; Ord. 02-2002, passed 8-13-2001; Ord. 08-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 54.14 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall break, damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenances, or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage
works.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.15 INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   Industrial users discharging wastes into the sewer system shall comply fully
with Pub. L. No. 92-500, § 204, being the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq. All industrial users shall pretreat pollutants in accordance with the
latest adopted regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency or similarly
functioning federal or state agency.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.16 SEWER LATERALS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface drainage, sub-surface drainage, groundwater, roof runoff, cooling
water, or unpolluted water into the sewer system of the city.
   (B)   All sewer customers are responsible to replace or repair the sewer
service laterals on premises they own, occupy or control, from the residence(s)
on such premises to the property line to prevent all such prohibited
discharges.
   (C)   Failure to repair a sewer service lateral found to be in violation of
this section, following a six-month period of notification, shall be deemed a
public nuisance and may be abated as such under any and all applicable state or
local provisions, and shall constitute a violation of applicable state and
local regulations pertaining to the sewer system. Remedies for such violations
as provided under any other applicable sewer regulations may be pursued against
any and all persons responsible. Such violations and nuisances may be abated as
set forth in any other applicable city ordinances.
   (D)   Sewer laterals shall be installed by a licensed, bonded contractor and
paid for by the developer. All installations shall be inspected by the City
Utility Superintendent.
(Ord. 321, passed 11-2-1994; Ord. 04-2005, passed 6-14-2005; Ord. 08-2005,
passed 5-9-2005) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.17 WATER AND SEWER LATERAL CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   The water and sewer lateral connection fees shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Multiple meters on one service are not allowed.
   (C)   Meters will be furnished by the city and will remain the property of
the city and will at all times be under its control.
(Ord. 08-2005, passed 5-9-2005) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.18 DEPOSIT REFUNDS UNDER $5.
   Refunds of $5 or less will be paid from the petty cash fund in person only,
to the registered account holder, within 30 days of the closing date on the
account. Amounts not claimed within 30 days will be forfeited to the city.
(Res. 03-11, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
for a fine in an amount not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-13-1975; Ord. 321, passed 11-2-1994)
CHAPTER 55: ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
   
55.01   Adoption of state code covering installation of wires and electrical
equipment
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 ADOPTION OF STATE CODE COVERING INSTALLATION OF WIRES AND ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to introduce,
install, or have any electric lighting, heating, or power wire, circuit or
circuits, or apparatus in, on, or connected to any building, awning, structure,
or addition thereof within the corporate limits of the city, unless the same
shall be in conformity with the rules and regulations set forth in what is
known as the state code covering installation of wires and electrical equipment
as published under the direction of the Bureau of Labor of the state as the
same are now established, together with any amendments and changes made from
time to time. The code, together with any amendments and changes, which may be
made from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference in the same manner and
with same force and effect as if each and all of the provisions were herein
fully set forth.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-14-1941) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to violate any of
the provisions of §
55.01 and the person, firm, or corporation shall be subject to a fine of from
$1 to $100.
(Ord. 143, passed 4-14-1941)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Powers of the Council
   
70.03   Powers of the City Manager
   
70.04   Public danger
   
70.05   Standards
   
70.06   Authority of public safety officers
   
70.07   Skateboards, skates, and similar devices
   
70.08   Prohibited markings
   
70.09   Permits
   
70.10   Bicycles
   
70.11   Pedestrians
   
70.12   Parades
   
70.13   Funeral procession
   
70.14   Impoundment of vehicles
   
70.15   Existing control devices and markings
General Traffic Regulations
   
70.30   Crossing private property
   
70.31   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.32   Unlawful riding
   
70.33   Damaging sidewalks and curbs
   
70.34   Removing glass and debris
   
70.35   Speed limits in public parks
   
70.36   Motor vehicles in parks
   
70.37   Use of dynamic braking devices
General Parking Regulations
   
70.50   Storage of motor vehicles on streets
   
70.51   Obstructing streets
   
70.52   Method of parking
   
70.53   Prohibited parking or standing
   
70.54   Prohibited parking
   
70.55   City parking lots
   
70.56   Use of loading zone
   
70.57   Lights on parked vehicle
   
70.58   Extension of parking time
   
70.59   Unattended vehicles
   
70.60   Exemptions to parking regulations
   
70.61   Citation of illegally parked vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, and in addition to the definitions
contained in the Oregon Vehicle Code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLIDAY. Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas, and any other day proclaimed by the
Council to be a holiday.
   LOADING ZONE. A space on the edge of a roadway designated by sign for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials during specified hours
of specified days.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
   PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS. Any law enforcement officer with authority to
enforce the laws of the state and the city.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Oversize vehicle, used primarily for recreational
purposes, which cannot be parked in standard parking spaces.
   STREET. The terms highway, road, and street shall be considered synonymous,
unless the context precludes the construction. STREET includes alleys.
   TRAFFIC LANE. The area of the roadway used for the movement of a single line
of traffic.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.02 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Subject to state laws, the City Council shall exercise all municipal
traffic authority for the city including, but are limited to, those powers
expressly listed in this section.
   (B)   The Council, by resolution, may establish or alter traffic controls
which shall become effective upon the installation of appropriate signs,
signals, or other markings. These traffic controls may designate and regulate:
      (1)   The parking and standing of vehicles by:
         (a)   Classifying portions of streets or parking lots upon which
parking or standing or both is prohibited totally or during certain hours;
         (b)   Designating the angle of parking if other than parallel to the
curb; and/or
         (c)   Designating city owned or leased lots or property upon which
public parking will be permitted.
      (2)   Through streets and one-way streets;
      (3)   Truck routes;
      (4)   Special speed regulations for city parks; and
      (5)   Temporary closing of certain streets, or portions thereof.
   (C)   The Council, by resolution, may establish a schedule of fines for
improper parking.
   (D)   The Council, by resolution, may establish a schedule of fees for
permit parking and for delivery or service permit cards.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.03 POWERS OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager may exercise the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Implement the ordinances and resolutions of the Council and his or her
own orders by installing, maintaining, removing, and altering parking and
traffic control devices. The installation shall be based on the standards
contained in the Oregon Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets
and Highways; and
   (B)   After adequate signs, signals, or other markings are erected
indicating the regulation, the Manager may:
      (1)   Establish the time limit for legal parking in limited parking
areas;
      (2)   Establish parking areas for common-carrier vehicles;
      (3)   Designate the location of passenger loading zones;
      (4)   Designate loading zones, not to exceed two on any one side of a
block;
      (5)   Designate intersections where drivers of vehicles shall not make
right, left, or U-turns, and the times when the prohibitions shall apply;
      (6)   Designate crosswalks;
      (7)   Designate safety zones of a kind and character and at the places as
deemed necessary for pedestrian safety;
      (8)   Designate permit parking areas;
      (9)   Direct the removal or reduction in height of any hedge, shrubbery,
tree, or other visual obstruction to traffic safety; and
      (10)   Make and enforce for up to 90 days temporary, experimental, or
emergency regulations consistent with this chapter after adequate signs,
signals, or other notices are erected clearly indicating the regulations.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.04 PUBLIC DANGER.
   Under conditions constituting a danger to the public, the City Manager may
install temporary traffic control devices.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.05 STANDARDS.
   The traffic designs and control device regulations of the City Manager shall
be based on:
   (A)   Traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations;
   (B)   Standards, limitations, and rules promulgated by the State
Transportation Commission; and
   (C)   Other recognized traffic control standards.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is the duty of public safety officers and others designated by the
City Manager to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a fire or other public emergency, public safety
officers may direct traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.07 SKATEBOARDS, SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person shall, while riding on or by means of a skateboard, roller skates,
a coaster, skis, a sled, a toy vehicle, or a similar device:
   (A)   Use any street, except while legally crossing at a crosswalk;
   (B)   Use any parking lot; or
   (C)   Ride on any sidewalk in a reckless manner or without exercising due
care for the safety of others. Pedestrians shall have the right-of-way.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 PROHIBITED MARKINGS.
   No person shall letter, mark, paint, or otherwise label a street to restrict
or otherwise control parking unless the person is performing official duties
for the governmental unit responsible for maintaining street markings.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Manager or designee may issue the following permits to person or
businesses having special parking needs:
      (1)   Service or construction permit. A permit to allow the parking of a
vehicle used to repair or provide a service to a business when the vehicle will
be exceeding the parking time limit;
      (2)   Customer courtesy permit. A permit to identify customer vehicles
using loading zones for loading or unloading, or a permit issued to merchants
for distribution to customers who may have a need to park in excess of the
posted time limit;
      (3)   Merchant vehicle permit. A permit for a merchant’s vehicles used
for delivery or service purposes. This permit is good only in designated
special parking areas; and
      (4)   Parking permits. A permit issued for parking a vehicle in excess of
the posted time limits in certain designated parking areas.
   (B)   If parked in accordance with a permit issued under this section, a
vehicle shall not be subject to any conflicting provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.10 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to observing all other applicable provisions of
this chapter and state law pertaining to bicycles, no person shall leave a
bicycle, except in a bicycle rack. If no rack is provided, the person shall
leave the bicycle so as not to obstruct any roadway, sidewalk, driveway, or
building entrance.
   (B)   Bike rentals. No person shall rent or offer a bicycle for rent unless
the bicycle is equipped in accordance with the State Motor Vehicle Code.
   (C)   Impounding of bicycles.
      (1)   No person shall leave a bicycle on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in charge. Consent is implied on private
business property unless bicycle parking is expressly prohibited.
      (2)   A bicycle left on public property for a period in excess of 24
hours may be impounded by a public safety officer.
      (3)   In addition to any citation issued, a bicycle parked in violation
of this chapter, that obstructs or impedes the free flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or otherwise endangers the public, may be immediately
impounded by a public safety officer.
      (4)   If the owner of a bicycle impounded under this chapter can be
readily determined, the public safety officer shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner.
      (5)   A bicycle impounded under this chapter that remains unclaimed shall
be disposed of in accordance with the city’s procedures for disposal of
abandoned or lost personal property.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall cross a street other than within a crosswalk in
blocks where crosswalks are marked.
   (B)   Where there is no marked crosswalk, no pedestrian shall cross a street
at any place other than by the most direct route to the opposite curb.
   (C)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
the adjacent roadway.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 PARADES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall organize or participate in a parade on a public
street without obtaining a permit. A permit shall always be required of a
procession of people using the public right-of-way and consisting of 100 or
more persons or ten or more vehicles.
      (2)   Permits shall be made at City Hall at least seven days prior to the
intended date of the parade, unless the time is waived by the City Manager.
   (B)   Applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person responsible for the proposed
parade;
      (2)   The date of the proposed parade;
      (3)   The desired route, including assembling points;
      (4)   The number of persons, vehicles, and animals that will be
participating in the parade; and
      (5)   The proposed starting and ending time.
   (C)   The application shall be signed by the person designated as
Chairperson.
   (D)   The City Manager shall issue a parade permit conditioned on the
applicant’s written agreement to comply with the terms of the permit unless the
City Manager finds that:
      (1)   The time, route, and size of the parade will unreasonably disrupt
the movement of other traffic;
      (2)   The parade is of a size or nature that requires the diversion of so
great a number of public safety officers to properly police the line of
movement and contiguous areas that allowing the parade would deny reasonable
public safety protection to the city;
      (3)   The parade will interfere with another parade for which a permit
has already been issued;
      (4)   Information contained in the application is found to be false or a
material detail is omitted; and/or
      (5)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
   (E)   If one or more of the conditions listed in division (D) above, other
than division (D)(5) above exists, the City Manager may impose reasonable
conditions in the permit, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Requiring an alternate date;
      (2)   Requiring an alternate route; and
      (3)   Restricting the size of the parade.
   (F)   The City Manager shall notify the applicant of the decision within
three days after receipt of the application.
   (G)   If the City Manager proposes alternatives or refuses to issue a
permit, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision to the
Council.
   (H)   (1)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager by
filing a written request of appeal within 48 hours after the City Manager has
proposed alternatives or refuses to issue a permit.
      (2)   The Council shall schedule a hearing date, which shall not be later
than three days following the filing of the written appeal with the Manager,
and shall notify the applicant of the date and time that he or she may appear
either in person or by a representative.
   (I)   (1)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a parade or parade
participant.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not part of a parade
between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade.
   (J)   The City Manager may revoke a parade permit if circumstances clearly
show that the parade can no longer be conducted consistent with public safety.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (A)   No permit is required for a funeral procession.
   (B)   A funeral procession shall proceed to the place of interment by the
most direct route that is both legal and practical.
   (C)   The procession shall be accompanied by adequate escort vehicles for
traffic control.
   (D)   All motor vehicles in the funeral procession shall be operated with
their lights on.
   (E)   No person shall unreasonably interfere with a funeral procession.
   (F)   No person shall operate a vehicle that is not a part of the procession
between the vehicles of a funeral procession.
   (G)   Each driver in the procession shall follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as is practical and safe.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When a vehicle is placed in a manner or location that
constitutes an obstruction to traffic or a hazard to public safety, a public
safety officer may order the owner or operator of the vehicle to remove it.
      (2)   If the vehicle is unattended, the officer may cause the vehicle to
be towed and stored at the owner’s expense.
      (3)   The owner shall be liable for the costs of towing and storing, even
if the vehicle was parked by another or if the vehicle was initially parked in
a safe manner but subsequently became an obstruction or hazard.
   (B)   Any vehicle determined to be abandoned pursuant to state law may be
impounded.
   (C)   The impoundment of a vehicle will not preclude the issuance of a
citation for violation of a provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Stolen vehicles may be towed from public or private property and
stored at the expense of the vehicle owner.
   (E)   The disposition of a vehicle towed and stored under authority of this
section shall be in accordance with the procedures of state law.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.15 EXISTING CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   Parking and traffic control devices and markings installed prior to the
adoption of this chapter are lawfully authorized.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.30 CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall proceed from one street to another
street by crossing private property or premises not open to the public. This
provision does not apply to the operator of a motor vehicle who stops on the
property to procure or provide goods or services.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any motor vehicle while the vehicle is
in motion.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall permit a passenger to, and no passenger
shall, ride on a motor vehicle on a street except on a portion of the vehicle
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision does not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to a person
riding within a truck body in space intended for merchandise.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 DAMAGING SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not drive on a sidewalk or
roadside planting strip except to cross at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall place dirt, wood, or other material in
the gutter or space next to the curb of a street with the intention of using it
as a driveway.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall remove a portion of a curb or move a motor
vehicle or a device moved by a motor vehicle onto a curb or sidewalk without
first obtaining authorization from the city.
      (2)   A person who causes damage shall be responsible for the cost of
repair.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 REMOVING GLASS AND DEBRIS.
   A party to a vehicle accident or a person causing broken glass or other
debris to be on a street shall remove the glass or other debris from the
street.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 SPEED LIMITS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle along a street adjacent to a public park of
this city at a speed exceeding 15 mph unless authorized signs indicate
otherwise.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 MOTOR VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   No person, other than a city employee in the course of his or her duties,
shall operate a motor vehicle on a trail, path, or road in a city park unless
the trail, park, or road is specifically designated by the Council for motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 USE OF DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall use any dynamic braking device on any motor vehicle,
except to avoid imminent danger to persons or property.
   (B)   A dynamic braking device, commonly referred to as a Jake or Jacob
Brake, is one used primarily on trucks and buses to convert a motor from an
internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of vehicle
braking without the use of wheel brakes.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.50 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall store, or permit to be stored on a street, without
permission of the Council, a motor vehicle or personal property for a period in
excess of 72 consecutive hours.
   (B)   Failure to remove a motor vehicle or other personal property after a
period of 72 consecutive hours constitutes prima facie evidence of storage.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person shall park or leave on a street, parking strip, sidewalk, or curb
any vehicle part, trailer, box, ware, merchandise of any description, or any
other thing that impedes traffic or obstructs the view, except as is allowed by
this chapter or other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle by backing into any parking space
marked for diagonal, angle, or perpendicular parking.
   (B)   (1)   Where parking spaces are designated on a street, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle other than in the indicated direction and within a
single marked space, unless the size or shape of the vehicle makes compliance
impossible or except when it is necessary to temporarily use a portion of an
abutting parking space to load and unload from the vehicle.
      (2)   Under the conditions, the person loading or unloading may
temporarily utilize the adjacent space, but shall immediately park or stand the
vehicle entirely within a single marked space on completion of the loading or
unloading.
   (C)   No person shall stand or park a motor vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches
of the edge of the curb, except where the street is marked or signed for angle
parking.
   (D)   When the operator of a vehicle discovers that the vehicle is parked
close to a building to which the Fire Department has been summoned, the
operator shall immediately remove the vehicle from the area, unless otherwise
directed by public safety officers or fire officers.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 PROHIBITED PARKING OR STANDING.
   No person shall park or stand:
   (A)   A vehicle in violation of state motor vehicle laws or in violation of
a lawfully erected parking limitation sign or marking;
   (B)   A vehicle in an alley other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of persons or materials, and in no case for a period in excess of 30
consecutive minutes in any two-hour period;
   (C)   A vehicle upon any parkway, except where authorized by the city; and/
or
   (D)   A semi-truck or tractor trailer on any residential street of the city
where posted otherwise.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.54 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No operator shall park and no owner shall allow a vehicle to be parked on a
street for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Repairing or servicing the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
   (C)   Displaying advertising from the vehicle; and/or
   (D)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except when authorized.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55 CITY PARKING LOTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Park, store, or leave any motor or other vehicle in a city parking lot
for more than 24 hours;
   (B)   Drive, operate, or place any motor vehicle in a city parking lot
except for the purpose of parking;
   (C)   Drive or operate any vehicle in a city parking lot while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug;
   (D)   Drive or operate any vehicle in a city parking lot at night without
lights as required by state law for operation of vehicles at night on public
streets and highways;
   (E)   Drive or operate any motor vehicle in a city parking lot at a speed
greater than five mph or at a speed greater than will permit the driver to
exercise proper control of the vehicle;
   (F)   Throw, leave, or place on a city parking lot any glass, debris, junk,
refuse, metal, trash, or other materials;
   (G)   Park or drive in a city parking lot any vehicle having cleats or other
metallic devices on the wheels, during times that are prohibited by state law,
that may damage the surfacing material on the parking lot; and/or
   (H)   Park or place in a city parking lot any vehicle, truck, or trailer of
an overall length of 18 feet or more except in areas designated for oversize or
recreational vehicles.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56 USE OF LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of persons or
materials, in a place designated as a loading zone when the hours applicable to
that loading zone are in effect. When the hours applicable to the loading zone
are in effect, the loading and unloading shall not exceed the time limits
posted. If no time limits are posted, then the use of the zone shall not exceed
ten minutes for loading or unloading of merchandise from a private vehicle or
30 minutes for loading or unloading materials or freight from a commercial
vehicle.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   No lights need be displayed upon a vehicle that is parked in accordance with
this chapter on a street where there is sufficient light to reveal a person or
object at a distance of at least 500 feet from the vehicle.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.58 EXTENSION OF PARKING TIME.
   Where maximum parking time limits are designated by sign, movement of a
vehicle within a block or lot shall not extend the time limits for parking.
Continued parking beyond the single limit for any parking space shall
constitute a separate offense for each period or portion of a single limit for
the parking space during which the vehicle remains parked.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.59 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   When a public safety officer finds a motor vehicle parked or standing
unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle, the public safety officer is
authorized to remove the key from the vehicle and deliver the key to the person
in charge of City Hall.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.60 EXEMPTIONS TO PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter that regulate the parking, stopping, or
standing of vehicles do not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle of the city, county, state, or a public utility while
necessarily in use for construction or repair work on a street;
   (B)   A vehicle owned by the United States while in use for the collection,
transportation, or delivery of mail;
   (C)   A vehicle of a disabled person who complies with the provisions of ORS
811.602 to 811.637; or
   (D)   Emergency vehicles performing duty.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.61 CITATION OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   When a vehicle is found parked in violation of a restriction imposed
by this chapter, a public safety officer finding the vehicle may take its
license number and any further information displayed on the vehicle that may
identify its owner, and may conspicuously affix to the vehicle a parking
citation instructing the operator to answer to the charge by paying the
specified penalty. The penalty shall be as set by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   In a proceeding against a vehicle owner charging a violation of a
restriction on parking, proof that the vehicle was registered to the defendant
at the time of the violation shall constitute a presumption that the defendant
was the owner.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
Each day that a violation persists shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 11-8-1999)
TITLE IX: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Acts constituting nuisances
   
90.03   Animals; generally
   
90.04   Specific nuisances affecting the public health, safety, or welfare
   
90.05   Attractive nuisances
   
90.06   Snow and ice
   
90.07   Noxious vegetation
   
90.08   Scattering rubbish
   
90.09   Trees
   
90.10   Fences
   
90.11   Surface waters; drainage
   
90.12   Sifting or leaking loads
   
90.13   Radio and television interference
   
90.14   Junk
   
90.15   Notices and advertisements
   
90.16   Burn barrels
   
90.17   Unnecessary noise
   
90.18   Parking of vehicles; repair or dismantling of vehicles
   
90.19   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
90.20   Abatement
   
90.21   Assessment of costs
   
90.22   Summary abatement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Off the premises of the owner while the animal is not under the
complete control of the owner by adequate leash.
      (2)   An animal within a vehicle shall not be considered to be AT LARGE
as defined in this section.
   JUNK. Includes, but is not limited to, old motors, old motor vehicle parts,
old machinery, old machinery parts, old appliances and parts, used furniture or
other discarded household goods, old iron or other metal, glass, paper, lumber,
wood, or other waste or discarded material.
   OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable interest in property.
   PERSON. An individual person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, or other person having possession or control of property or
supervision of a construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE. The person responsible for abating a nuisance shall
include:
      (1)   The owner;
      (2)   The person in charge of property; and/or
      (3)   The person who caused a nuisance to come into or continue in
existence.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental, or appurtenant to land, including, but not limited to, any
premises, room, house, building, or structure or any separate part or portion
thereof, whether permanent or not.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place, or accommodation, publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
   STREET. Every public way, road, thoroughfare, alley, and place, including
bridges and other structures within the boundaries of this city, open, used, or
intended for use of the general public for vehicles or vehicular traffic as a
matter of right.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public street and includes vehicles that are
propelled or powered by any means.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 90.02 ACTS CONSTITUTING NUISANCES.
   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is any act or omission which is determined by the city or
its designees to be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety, or
welfare of residents of the city.
(Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 90.03 ANIMALS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Dogs. It is declared to be a public nuisance affecting the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the city for an owner, or any other
person in charge of, or responsible for, the care and control of any dog within
the limits of the city, to permit that dog to leave the property of the owner,
or the property of the person in charge of, or responsible for its care and
control, without proper restraint by leash, cord, chain, enclosed vehicle, or
any other means appropriate to the size and character of the dog.
   (B)   Farm animals.
      (1)   Generally. It is declared to be a nuisance affecting the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the city for any person to keep farm
animals, including, but not limited to, pigs, hogs, swine, horses, cows, sheep,
goats, or fowl, except on property authorized for farm use, and then only if
the animals are properly fenced, confined, or otherwise restrained within the
boundaries of the owner’s property, or the property of the person in charge of
or responsible for the animals.
      (2)   Exception; regulating and allowing chickens within the city.
         (a)   Restricted to chickens only, no other fowl;
         (b)   No roosters;
         (c)   Ten total wing clipped hens;
         (d)   Chickens will be confined to the owner(s) property;
         (e)   Chickens are not allowed on the city rights-of-way;
         (f)   Any person(s) in charge of a real property that keeps chickens
is responsible for keeping chickens on the property;
         (g)   No chicken coop or nesting box will be outside the city zoning
and land development setbacks;
         (h)   Pens smaller than 15 feet by 15 feet will not be within ten feet
of a property line;
         (i)   If the entire yard is open to ranging chicken, chickens may
range within the setback;
         (j)   Material from nesting box or coop cleaning, will immediately be
tilled into the ground or placed in a sealed container and disposed of;
         (k)   Chicken feed; only enough for daily use will be left out. All
other feed will be stored in a sealable metal container;
         (l)   If there are three confirmed incidents of chickens at large, for
any one real property, for any reason, the person(s) in charge of said real
property will forfeit the right to keep chickens for five years; and
         (m)   All chicken broods will be registered with the city.
   (C)   Impoundment. Any animal found in violation of divisions (A) and (B)
above may be taken into custody by the County Animal Control and taken to the
County Animal Shelter.
   (D)   Bees. No more than two non-Africanized bee colonies may be kept or
maintained on properties within the city limits.
   (E)   Removal of carcasses. No person shall permit an animal carcass owned
or controlled by that person to remain upon public property or to be exposed on
private property, for a period of time longer than is reasonably necessary to
remove or dispose of carcass.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 01-2014,
passed 3-10-2014; Ord. 01-2017, passed 11-13-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 SPECIFIC NUISANCES AFFECTING THE PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY, OR WELFARE.
   In addition to any act or omission determined to be a nuisance pursuant to §
90.02, to permit or allow the following is declared to be a public nuisance:
   (A)   Open vaults, pits, quarries, cisterns, open wells, privies, or other
open excavations to exist on any premises without adequate safeguards;
   (B)   Accumulation of debris, rubbish, manure, and other refuse offensive to
the public for a period longer than 12 hours upon any public street or public
premises or any private premises;
   (C)   Stagnant water which affords a breeding place for mosquitoes and other
insect pests;
   (D)   Pollution of a body of water, well, spring, stream, or drainage ditch
by sewage, industrial wastes, or other substances placed in or near the water
in a manner that will cause harmful material to pollute the water;
   (E)   Decayed or unwholesome food offered for human consumption;
   (F)   Premises, including those with cesspools or septic tanks, that are in
a state or condition as to cause an offensive odor or that are in an unsanitary
condition;
   (G)   Mastics, oil, grease, or petroleum products allowed to be introduced
into the sewer system by a use connected to the sewer system;
   (H)   Any structure constructed or maintained upon any city owned premises
without permission from the city; and
   (I) Any substance placed upon any public thoroughfare tending to mar the
appearance or detract from the cleanliness or safety of such thoroughfare.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall permit on the property
the following:
      (1)   Any container or compartment with a door or lid that locks or
fastens automatically when closed and that cannot be easily opened from inside;
      (2)   Unguarded machinery, equipment, or other devices that are
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children;
      (3)   Lumber, logs, or pilings placed or stored in a manner as to be
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to authorized construction projects with
reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to playing children.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 SNOW AND ICE.
   No owner or person in charge of property, improved or unimproved, abutting
on a public sidewalk shall permit:
   (A)   Snow to remain on sidewalk for a period longer than the first five
hours of daylight after snow has fallen; and/or
   (B)   Ice to remain on the sidewalk for more than five hours of daylight
after the ice has formed unless the ice is covered with sand, ashes, or other
suitable material to assure safe travel.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of real property shall allow noxious
vegetation on the property. Noxious vegetation is declared a nuisance.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NOXIOUS VEGETATION. Includes, at any time between May 1 and November 1 of
any year:
         (a)   Weeds more than ten inches high;
         (b)   Grass more than ten inches high;
         (c)   Poison oak and poison ivy;
         (d)   Blackberry bushes that extend into a public thoroughfare or
across a property line; and/or
         (e)   Weeds, grass, or vegetation that is:
            1.   A health hazard;
            2.   A fire hazard; and/or
            3.   A traffic hazard which impairs the view of a public
thoroughfare or otherwise makes use of the thoroughfare hazardous.
   (C)   Between January 1 and December 31 of any year, no owner or person in
charge of real property may allow noxious vegetation to be on the property or
in the right-of-way of a public thoroughfare abutting on the property. It shall
be the duty of an owner or person in charge of property to cut down and haul
away or to destroy grass, shrubbery, brush, bushes, weeds, or other noxious
vegetation as often as needed to prevent them from becoming unsightly, from
being a fire hazard, or in the case of weeds or other noxious vegetation, from
maturing or from going to seed.
   (D)   Between April 15 and June 1 of each year, the City Recorder may post
at various public places a copy of division (C) above as a notice to all owners
and persons in charge of property of the duty to keep their property free of
noxious vegetation.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 01-2015,
passed 7-28-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 SCATTERING RUBBISH.
   No person shall deposit upon public or private property any kind of rubbish,
trash, debris, refuse, or any substance that would mar the appearance, create a
stench or fire hazard, detract from the cleanliness or safety of the property,
or would be likely to injure a person, animal, or vehicle traveling upon a
public way.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 TREES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall allow to stand a dead
or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public or persons or property on or
near the property.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property that abuts on a street or
public sidewalk shall permit trees or bushes on the property to interfere with
street or sidewalk traffic. An owner or person in charge of property that abuts
on a street or public sidewalk shall keep all trees and bushes on the premises,
including the adjoining parking strip, trimmed so that any overhanging portions
are at least eight feet above the sidewalk and at least 12 feet above the
roadway.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 FENCES.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct or maintain a
barbed wire fence except where livestock is to be contained by the fence, in
which case the fence shall be located not closer than five feet from the
property line. Fences enclosing storage areas in industrial districts may use
barbed wire so long as the wire is located no less than six feet above the
ground.
   (B)   No owner or person in charge of property shall construct, maintain, or
operate an electric fence within the city.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 SURFACE WATERS; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No owner or person in charge of a building or structure shall allow or
permit rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from the building or structure onto a
street, alley, or public sidewalk or to flow across a sidewalk.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge of property shall install and maintain
in proper state of repair adequate drainpipes or a drainage system, so that any
overflow water accumulating on the roof or about the buildings is not carried
across or upon the sidewalk or alleys.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 SIFTING OR LEAKING LOADS.
   No person shall drive or move a vehicle on any street unless it is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or use an electrical, mechanical, or other
device, apparatus, instrument, or machine that causes reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception by a radio or television
receiver of good engineering design.
   (B)   This section does not apply to devices licensed, approved, and
operated under the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 JUNK.
   (A)   No person shall keep junk outdoors on a street, lot, or premises or in
a building that is not wholly or entirely enclosed except for doors used for
ingress and egress.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK. Includes all old motors, old motor vehicle parts, abandoned
automobiles, old machinery, old machinery parts, old appliances and parts, old
iron or other metal, glass, paper, lumber, wood, or other waste or discarded
material.
   (C)   This section does not apply to junk kept in a licensed junkyard or
automobile wrecking house.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall affix or cause to be distributed any placard, bill,
advertisement, or poster upon any real or personal property, public or private,
without first securing permission from the owner or person in charge of
property. This section shall not be construed as an amendment to or repeal of
any regulation now or hereafter adopted by the city regulating the use of any
location of signs and advertising.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the distribution of
material during any parade or public gathering.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 BURN BARRELS.
   (A)   No person shall burn garbage containing animal or vegetable matter or
other matter causing offensive odor.
   (B)   All persons using burn barrels shall comply with Uniform Fire Code and
any amendment of the Uniform Fire Code.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No person may make, assist in making, continue, or cause to be made
any loud, disturbing, or unnecessary noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of others.
   (B)   Loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this section
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The keeping of any animal which by causing frequent or long-
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity; and
      (2)   The playing of a radio, television, stereo, or similar device which
disturbs the comfort and repose of any person outside a 50-foot radius.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 PARKING OF VEHICLES; REPAIR OR DISMANTLING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park any car or pickup on any public street for a
period in excess of ten days. No person shall park any other vehicle, motor
home, trailer, or boat on any public street for a period in excess of three
days. The intent of this section is to penalize people who use the street as a
storage area for their vehicles, but not to penalize people who use their cars
or pickups on a day-to-day or other similarly regular basis and park that
vehicle on the street.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle, motor home, trailer, or boat on any
public right-of-way, including parking areas, for the purpose of advertising
that vehicle, mobile home, trailer, or boat for sale or lease.
   (C)   It is unlawful to disassemble, construct, reconstruct, repair, and/or
service motor vehicles or motor vehicle trailers of any kind in or upon any
street, road, alley, or public thoroughfare in the city or upon private
property where visible from the street or the adjacent property, except for
emergency service; provided that such emergency service shall not extend over a
period of 72 hours, except when required to be made in a street, road, alley,
or other public thoroughfare; in which case, an emergency service shall not
extend over a period of two hours, and does not interfere with or impede the
flow of traffic. A violation of this section shall also constitute a public
nuisance, which shall be punishable by a fine as set forth in §
90.99.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
§ 90.19 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park, store, or leave or permit the parking or
storing of any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind or of any motor
vehicle trailer, either licensed or unlicensed, of any kind, for a period of
time in excess of 72 hours, which is in a rusted or wrecked or junked or
partially dismantled or inoperative or abandoned condition, whether attended or
not, upon any public or private property within the city, unless the same is
completely within an enclosure where it would not be visible from the street or
adjacent property, unless it is in connection with a business enterprise
lawfully licensed by the city and property operated in the appropriate business
zone pursuant to zoning laws of the city.
   (B)   The accumulation and storage of one or more of said vehicles, as
defined in division (A) above, on public or private property shall constitute
rubbish and unsightly debris and a nuisance, detrimental to the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the city; and it shall be the duty of the
registered owner of any such vehicle or vehicles, and it shall also be the duty
of the owner of the private property or the lessee or other person in
possession of the private property upon which the vehicle is located, to remove
the same from the city or to have the same housed in an enclosure where it will
not be visible from a street or adjacent property.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the city to give written notice to the
registered owner of any motor vehicle or motor vehicle trailer which is in
violation of this chapter, as described in division (A) above, and to further
give notice that such vehicle violates this section, and demanding that such
motor vehicle or motor vehicles be removed from there within 72 hours, or that
within 72 hours the same is to be housed within an enclosure where it will not
be visible from a street or adjacent property. Written notice to the last known
address of the registered owner of a vehicle or the owner or lessee of real
property shall be sufficient.
   (D)   If the notice is given as provided in division (C) above, and the
person upon whom the notice demand is made fails to remove as required by the
notice such vehicle or vehicles, as the case may be, or fails to cause the same
to be placed in an enclosure where it will not be visible from the street, then
such person shall be in violation of this section, and shall be punished by
fine, as set forth in §
90.99.
   (E)   As an alternate procedure, the city may, after giving notice, and
after waiting 72 hours, take the vehicle or vehicles to be removed by a city
truck or commercial tow truck to a commercial garage or an automobile wrecking
yard or any other suitable place for storage of the vehicle, as may be
designated by the city; and within 48 hours after removal and storage of such
vehicle the city shall give notice in the manner prescribed in division (C)
above to the registered owner of such vehicle and also to the owner or lessee
or person in possession of land from which the vehicle was removed, that such
vehicle or vehicles have been impounded and stored for violation of this
section, and notice shall include the location or place where the vehicle or
vehicles are stored, the costs incurred by the city for the removal or towing,
and the storage charges accruing; and that if such charges are not paid in full
to the City Recorder within ten days immediately following the giving of such
notice, such vehicle or vehicles shall be deemed to have been abandoned and
will thereafter be discarded as junk or may, at the discretion of the city, be
sold as an abandoned vehicles in the manner prescribed in this section after
giving not less than 30 days’ notice by registered letter, addressed to the
registered owner of the vehicle at his or her latest address shown on the
records in the office of the Motor Vehicle Division of the state, with the
owner given the right to reclaim such vehicle within said 30 days by paying all
the costs and expenses incurred in the removal, preservation, and custody of
the vehicle for a period not in excess of 90 days; and if not so reclaimed,
then to be sold, with the City Recorder to execute the certificate of sale to
be delivered to the purchaser and the original to be retained by the city; and
the money so received from the sale thereof to be applied first to the payment
of costs and expenses incurred in the removal, preservation, and custody of the
vehicle and the remainder to be retained by the city for a period of one year;
and if not claimed by then, to be turned over to the state as in the case of
property to escheat to the state.
   (F)   If any vehicle is impounded or stored by the city under the provisions
of this chapter, or of any other ordinance of this city, or pursuant to any
other lawful authority, such vehicle or vehicles or other personal property
shall not be released to the appointed keeper thereof until all charges
connected with the removal, towing, and storage of such vehicle or vehicles or
personal property have been fully paid as evidenced by the City Recorder’s paid
receipt.
(Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Upon determination by the Code Enforcement Officer or designee
that a nuisance exists, the City Recorder shall cause a notice to be sent to
the person responsible to abate the nuisance. The notice to abate shall
contain:
      (1)   A description of the real property, by street or otherwise, on
which the nuisance exists;
      (2)   A direction to abate the nuisance within ten days from the date of
the notice;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance and the cost of abatement will be charged to the person
responsible and could become a lien on the property;
      (5)   A statement that failure to abate a nuisance may result in a civil
penalty;
      (6)   A statement that the person responsible may protest the order to
abate by giving notice to the City Recorder within ten days from the date of
the notice, together with a statement from the person responsible as to why he
or she feels no nuisance exists; and
      (7)   If the person responsible is not the owner, an additional notice
shall be sent to the owner stating that the cost of abatement not paid by the
person responsible may be assessed to and become a lien against the property.
   (B)   Copy. Upon completion, a copy of the mailing shall be kept at City
Hall.
   (C)   Errors. An error in the name or address of the person responsible
shall not make the notice void.
   (D)   Abatement by the person responsible.
      (1)   Within ten days after the mailing of the notice, as provided in
division (A) above, the person responsible shall remove the nuisance or show
that no nuisance exists.
      (2)   A person responsible, protesting that no nuisance exists, shall
file with the City Recorder a written statement which shall specify the basis
for so protesting.
      (3)   The statement shall be referred to the City Council as a part of
its regular agenda at its next succeeding meeting. At the time set for
consideration of the abatement, the person protesting may appear and be heard
by the Council, and the Council shall determine whether or not a nuisance, in
fact, exists; and the determination shall be entered into the official minutes
of the Council. Council determination shall be required only in those cases
where a written statement has been filed as provided.
      (4)   If the Council determines that a nuisance does, in fact, exist, the
person responsible shall, within ten days after the Council determination,
abate the nuisance.
   (E)   Joint responsibility. If more than one person is a person responsible,
they shall be jointly and severally liable for abating the nuisance or for the
costs incurred by the city in abating the nuisance.
   (F)   Abatement by the city.
      (1)   If, within the time allowed, the nuisance has not been abated by
the person responsible, the city may cause the nuisance to be abated.
      (2)   The officer charged with abatement of the nuisance, or others as
necessary acting under the direction of the officer, shall have the right at
reasonable times to enter into or upon the property in accordance with law to
investigate or cause the removal of the nuisance.
      (3)   The City Recorder shall keep an accurate record of the expense
incurred by the city in physically abating the nuisance and shall include
therein a reasonable charge for administrative overhead.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall forward to the owner and the person
responsible, by registered or certified mail, a notice stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement, including administrative costs;
      (2)   The costs as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice;
and
      (3)   If the owner or the person responsible objects to the cost of the
abatement as indicated, a notice of objection may be filed with the City
Recorder no more than ten days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   No sooner than 30 days after the date of the notice, the Council, in
the regular course of business, shall hear and make a decision on the
objections of the costs assessed.
   (C)   (1)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from
the date of the notice, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as decided by
the Council, shall be made by resolution and shall be entered in the docket of
city liens.
      (2)   When the entry is made, it shall constitute a lien on the property
from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum. The
interest shall accrue from the date of entry of the lien in the lien docket.
   (E)   An error in the name of the owner or person responsible or a failure
to receive the notice of the proposed assessment will not void the assessment,
and it shall remain a valid lien against the property.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 90.22 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer or designee may proceed to summarily
abate any nuisance which unmistakably exists and which imminently endangers
human life, health, or property. The cost of the abatement will be assessed as
provided in §
90.21.
   (B)   When a nuisance is abated under this section, the person responsible
may also be subject to other remedies which may also be sought.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this chapter is punishable by a civil
fine not to exceed $1,000. The city shall establish the fine, and consider if
the violator has abated the nuisance.
   (C)   All persons responsible shall be liable for any injuries resulting
from a violation of any of §§
90.02 through
90.19.
   (D)   Each day’s violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes a
separate offense.
   (E)   Abatement of a nuisance is not a penalty for violation of this
chapter, but is an additional remedy. The imposition of a penalty does not
relieve a person of the duty to abate the nuisance. However, abatement of a
nuisance within ten days of determination that a nuisance exists will relieve
the person responsible of the imposition of a penalty.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 9-8-2003; Ord. 02-2008, passed 4-14-2008)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks and Driveways
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Applicability
   
91.03   Duty to install sidewalk
   
91.04   Duty to maintain and keep in repair
   
91.05   Installation and repairs to city specifications
   
91.06   Injury or property damage
   
91.07   Obstructions
   
91.08   Wheel chair ramps required at street intersections
   
91.09   Construction permits and inspections required
   
91.10   Sidewalk and driveway approach specifications
   
91.11   Driveway approach specifications
   
91.12   Failure to install; city procedure to install
Addressing
   
91.25   Short title
   
91.26   Purpose
   
91.27   Adoption and maintenance of Official Address Map
   
91.28   Base lines established
   
91.29   Numbering system
   
91.30   Size and placement of numbers
   
91.31   Street naming
   
91.32   Coordination with the county
   
91.33   Renaming streets by Council, Commission, or petition
   
91.34   Criteria for street name change
   
91.35   Procedure for street name change
   
91.36   Existing addresses
   
91.37   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY APPROACH. The portion of a sidewalk which crosses the entrance from
any street to any dedicated alley.
   DRIVEWAY APPROACH. The portion of a service driveway lying within the
sidewalk and constructed so as to allow the safe passage of vehicles across the
sidewalk.
   INTERSECTION. The area of the public right-of-way which lies within the
projection of two lot lines at the point where the lines meet at an angle to
form a lot corner.
   NOTICE. A written notice to the affected party directed to the party by
first-class or certified mail. NOTICE shall be deemed effective on the date the
notice is deposited with a public or private mail carrier postage pre-paid and
directed to the party at the party’s last known address known to the city.
   OWNER(S). The person or persons shown on the last tax assessment roll in the
office of the County Assessor of Douglas County, Oregon.
   REMODELING. A structural improvement or new construction made to any
structure in which the new construction or improvement exceeds 25% of the value
of the improvements on the property as established by the County Tax Assessor
at the time a construction permit is obtained.
   STRUCTURE. Includes all dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings, and
other structures designed for human occupancy.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 91.02 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as may be limited by ORS 223.880, 366.460, 368.910, 373.020, 373.030,
447.310, or other applicable and paramount statutes, laws, or regulations,
including those of the state and the county, sidewalks shall be subject to the
requirements of this subchapter as it applies to state or county owned rights-
of-way or abutting state or county owned property located within the city.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 91.03 DUTY TO INSTALL SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of every property owner whose property
abuts upon any street that has been improved with hard-surface pavement or
along any street, the grade of which has been established and which has been
improved by the installation of curbs at grade, to construct a concrete
sidewalk conforming to the ordinances of the city prior to an occupancy permit
being issued, or within 180 days from the completion of any remodeling of any
structure located upon the property of the owner.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of every property owner whose vacant,
undeveloped, or developed property abuts upon any street that has been improved
with hard-surface pavement or along any street, the grade of which has been
established and which has been improved by the installation of curbs at grade,
to construct a concrete sidewalk conforming to the ordinances of the city
within three years from the date this subchapter takes effect.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DUTY TO MAINTAIN AND KEEP IN REPAIR.
   (A)   An existing sidewalk shall be considered in a state of disrepair when
the condition or defect would create a danger to pedestrians.
   (B)   The conditions shall include, but not be limited to, breakage, cracks,
upheaval, irregular composition of concrete materials, accumulations of moss or
other organic growths, and other visible hazards.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 91.05 INSTALLATION AND REPAIRS TO CITY SPECIFICATIONS.
   All installations and repairs undertaken pursuant to this subchapter shall
be according to the city specifications as set forth in the provisions of this
subchapter, a copy of which shall at all times be available for public
inspection in the office of the city.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   The owner(s) of real property in the city shall be liable for any person
suffering personal injury or property damage, by reason of any defect in the
sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon the real property of the respective owner
(s) thereof.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 91.07 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It is hereby made a duty of every property owner to remove any obstacle or
obstruction to any sidewalk abutting or located on the property owner’s
property and to maintain and afford continuous unobstructed access to the
sidewalk to the public.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 WHEEL CHAIR RAMPS REQUIRED AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Whenever any sidewalk is repaired, replaced, or newly constructed within the
intersection of any public streets, the repair, replacement, or new
construction shall be completed to conform with the American Public Works
Association standards for wheel chair ramps. Dimensions and specifications for
wheel chair ramps shall be as set forth in the plans attached to Ord. 336-99 as
Exhibit A, which plans are made a part of this subchapter as if set in full
herein.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or unit of government other than the
city shall construct any sidewalk without first applying for and receiving a
permit to so construct the sidewalk from the City Manager.
   (B)   No sidewalk shall be constructed by any person, firm, corporation, or
unit of government other than the city without the construction thereof being
inspected by the city public works official or his or her designee and approved
by him or her as conforming to the standards of the city.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 SIDEWALK AND DRIVEWAY APPROACH SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks and driveway approaches hereafter constructed within the
city shall be constructed of concrete cement compounded of portland cement,
clean sand, clean gravel, and water in sufficient quantities to achieve a 28-
day compressive strength of at least 3,000 pounds per square inch when tested
in accordance with applicable standards of the American Society for Testing
Materials. No white sand shall be used in the mix. Concrete shall be poured
monolithically and shall be a minimum six sack mix.
   (B)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed or repaired shall be of the
following minimum width, exclusive of any curb:
      (1)   Within a commercial zone as defined by the zoning ordinance of this
city, or adjacent to any property owned, used, or to be used for school or
public education purposes, the minimum width shall be eight feet, or shall
conform to the existing width, if it is wider; and
      (2)   Elsewhere: five feet, except curb line walks shall be five feet
inclusive of curb surface, or conform to existing width.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be four inches minimum thickness and six inches
minimum thickness across driveways and alley approaches.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall have a fall of 0.025 inches per foot from the property
line toward the curb, and shall be so laid that the street side of the walk
shall be at an elevation equal to that of the curb of the street, unless the
City Manager shall otherwise authorize.
      (1)   Expansion joints one-half inch wide shall be placed at maximum
intervals of 30 feet and shall be placed wherever a new walk joins an existing
walk, driveway, or other solid object, and at points of direction change.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be divided into square blocks of no greater
dimension than seven foot, by joints running across the walk at right angles to
their length. Each joint shall be plainly marked with a deep cutter two inches
in width. The edges of all blocks shall be smoothly marked with a three-inch
edger and be free from broom marks. All sidewalks shall receive a broom finish.
      (3)   Forms shall be free from warping or breaks and be of sufficient
strength, and properly anchored and braced, to ensure holding of true lines and
grades.
   (E)   (1)   Where the earth is in an undisturbed condition, no sidewalk bed
other than the earth needs to be used.
      (2)   Where the earth has been disturbed, either through leveling or
clearing, then a sidewalk bed of sand or small gravel not less than three
inches in depth shall be placed before the sidewalk cement is poured.
   (F)   All sidewalks shall be laid adjacent to the street curb, except:
      (1)   Where an existing portion of sidewalk already exists within the
block on or near the property line, all sidewalks upon that side of the street
and within the block where the existing property line sidewalk exists shall be
constructed adjacent to the property line; and/or
      (2)   Where the City Council by resolution shall provide otherwise.
   (G)   The City Manager may authorize the installation of a meandering
sidewalk for aesthetic purposes provided the walk does not substantially
inconvenience the general public nor create an apparent traffic or pedestrian
hazard.
   (H)   (1)   All cuts or demolition made to existing city sidewalks, or to an
adjoining city street, shall be made by concrete or pavement saw cuts and
appropriate saw cutting equipment at locations approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   Any cuts made to a city curb or city street shall be repaired and
repaved in compliance with city street specifications, at the property owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DRIVEWAY APPROACH SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All driveway approaches and alley approaches hereafter constructed
within the city shall be constructed of concrete cement compounded of portland
cement, clean sand, clean gravel, and water in sufficient quantities to achieve
a 28-day compressive strength of at least 3,000 pounds per square inch when
tested in accordance with applicable standards of the American Society for
Testing Materials. Concrete shall be poured monolithically and shall be a
minimum six sack mix. Typical dimensions for driveway approaches and alley
approaches shall be set forth in the plans attached to Ord. 336-99 as Exhibit
B, which plans are made a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   Driveway approaches shall be a minimum of 14 feet in width for a
single driveway entrance or 20 feet in width for double entrance within each
100 feet of property frontage. In no event shall a driveway width extend beyond
the property line or lines of the owner of the property wherein the service
driveway is installed. Alley approaches shall be constructed so that the width
conforms to the width of the alley.
   (C)   Driveway portions of sidewalks and alley approaches shall be scribed
and finished as in this subchapter, and shall be separated from the walks and
curbs by a cold joint or one-half-inch expansion joint.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 FAILURE TO INSTALL; CITY PROCEDURE TO INSTALL.
   When a property owner has failed to install or repair a sidewalk as required
by any section of this subchapter, the City Manager shall proceed as follows:
   (A)   Submit a report to the City Council with a recommendation regarding
construction or repair of the sidewalk by the city and set a time and place for
a hearing by the City Council;
   (B)   Send a notice of the hearing to the property owner by regular mail
(plain envelope) and certified mail to the address listed on the county tax
roll records. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be mailed at least ten working days prior to hearing;
      (2)   State the time and place for hearing and specify that the citizen
will have opportunity to testify;
      (3)   Make reference to the specific violation;
      (4)   State the work to be done;
      (5)   State the name of staff member the citizen should contact for
details;
      (6)   State the specific action the Manager is requesting Council to take
in regard to the property; and
      (7)   Estimate the cost of installation or repair if city performs the
work and state that the estimate is not binding upon the city and merely
provided for property owner’s information and convenience.
   (C)   At the Council hearing, the Council shall:
      (1)   Receive the Manager’s report, staff comments, and the testimony of
property owner if the owner desires to testify; and
      (2)   Deliberate and reach a decision based upon the testimony received,
and either approve or deny the request of the Manager to install the sidewalk
if the property owner has not complied in ten working days, or has not made
other specific arrangements that are approved by the City Manager.
   (D)   Notice to property owner of the Council’s decision shall be given by
regular mail (plain envelope) and certified mail and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Council’s decision;
      (2)   A requirement that action occur within ten working days from the
date of notice;
      (3)   The opportunity to make arrangements with the City Manager for
prompt construction or repair of the walk, taking into consideration weather or
other work in progress;
      (4)   The name of a staff member the citizen may contact for details or
with whom other arrangements may be made that satisfy the requirements of the
ordinance; and
      (5)   Notice to property owner that, if he or she fails to perform, the
city will contract to have work done and will add 15% administrative charge to
all costs; will charge interest at 12% annually; and, in addition, Council will
levy an assessment against the property and file a lien in city lien docket
with collection upon foreclosure or upon sale of property.
   (E)   In the event the owner(s) of the property or properties subject to the
above procedure fail(s) to make the improvements or repairs as directed by the
Council and the City Manager has caused the sidewalk to be installed or
repaired, then the City Manager shall report to the Council the cost thereof,
including 15% for administrative costs, together with the name or names of the
owner(s) of record of the real property abutting the sidewalk. Upon the
approval of the Council by ordinance, the same shall become a lien against the
adjacent real property. The lien shall have priority over all other liens
against the property, save and except the liens or taxes as by law take
precedence.
(Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999)
ADDRESSING
§ 91.25 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Addressing Ordinance of the City of
Glendale”.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.26 PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established a uniform system of numbering all houses,
stores, establishments, and other buildings, excepting minor sheds and
outbuildings, now situated or which may hereafter be erected within the city
limits, which for convenience are hereafter designated as structures. Pursuant
to the system the numbers shall be placed near the main entrance of each
structure, and in accordance with the map and plan now on file in the office of
the City Recorder, which shall be known as the Official Address Map of the City
of Glendale. All public streets shall be given a name in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter and as approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 ADOPTION AND MAINTENANCE OF OFFICIAL ADDRESS MAP.
   The Planning Commission shall assign all numbers for all structures,
existing or hereafter erected within the city, in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter and shall prepare and maintain a map of the city
whereon the numbers assigned to residences, buildings, and premises are clearly
indicated. This shall be kept up to date by the City Recorder with the
numbering and street naming that takes place and shall be known as the Official
Address Map of the City of Glendale.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.28 BASE LINES ESTABLISHED.
   Pacific Avenue in the City of Glendale shall be the base line for commencing
to number all streets extending north and south and Molly Street shall be the
base line for commencing to number all streets extending east and west. All
numbering south of Pacific Avenue shall bear no directional designation. That
portion of avenue east of Molly Street shall be designated East, and that
portion of street north of Pacific Avenue shall be designated North. All
numbering west of Molly Street shall bear no directional designation.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.29 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   All buildings shall be numbered in accordance with the following
system of numbering which is hereby designated as the Glendale Addressing
System.
   (B)   All numbering shall start from the base lines described in §
91.28 with the lowest number of any one street or lane being those immediately
adjacent to the base lines and with higher numbers being assigned in
progression with even numbers on the left and the odd numbers on the right as
the distance from the respective base lines increases.
   (C)   The numbering system shall be based on lineal footage of 100 numbers
for every 300 feet of distance along a street. From an intersection with the
base line, numbers shall start at 100. For streets or lanes not intersecting a
base line, numbering shall begin at the end closest to the base line, unless
the Planning Commission determines extension of the street or lane towards a
base line may occur in the future or determines the numbering would be
confusing, in which case he or she may assign numbers most appropriate to the
situation.
   (D)   A detailed addressing map and vicinity map of addressed areas will be
prepared according to the Glendale Addressing System by the Planning Commission
and updated when changes occur by City Recorder.
   (E)   Upon determining the general direction of streets applicable in this
section, irregular or winding streets shall take the number sequencing range of
nearby streets running that determined direction. Looped streets shall be
numbered progressively as if they were a section of the street they originated
from. A circular street (having one entrance/exit) shall be numbered
progressively from its point of origination and according to that original
direction on the grid pattern.
   (F)   Where a building of premises has several entrances for use by
different occupants, the city may assign a different number for each principal
entrance. In the case of a multiple dwelling with one principal entrance, or a
multi-unit development where insufficient numbers are available, only one
number may be assigned to the structure with each unit being identified with
the suffix A, B, C, and the like used with the assigned number or a suffix such
as Apt. #1, Apt. #2, and the like, may be assigned. Mobile home parks and
similar development shall be assigned one number to the principal entrance with
each unit or space identified with a suffix indicating the space number.
   (G)   All developments serviced by unnamed private driveways shall be
numbered as if the entire development fronted the public street from which the
private driveway begins.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 SIZE AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Numbers assigned. Numbers assigned by the city shall be placed on
every structure within the city of the expense of the property owner within 30
days of receiving notification of the assignment of the number. For new
construction, numbers shall be assigned within 30 days of the date of
occupancy.
   (B)   Placement of number. Numbers assigned by the city shall be affixed to
the door or door frame of the main entrance to the structure, or as near
thereto as practical, in a location conspicuous from the street which the
structure faces so that the same may be readily seen from the street.
   (C)   Size of number. The figures in the numbers required by this section
shall be not less than three inches high and shall be a contrasting color to
the background.
   (D)   Address signs. Where a building is located more than 35 feet from the
public or private street on which it fronts, or is situated so that the front
entrance is not readily visible from the street, a sign with address numbers
shall be located at the intersection of the street and the private driveway
serving the building or, it there is no driveway access to the street on which
the building fronts, the sign shall be placed within 20 feet of the front
property line at a point providing pedestrian access to the building. The sign
shall be in conformance with zoning district regulations.
   (E)   Curb numbering. The owner or occupant of any residence, structure, or
place of business (in addition to complying with the provisions of this
subchapter) may voluntarily place, or cause to be placed, upon the street curb
in front of the residence, structure, or place of business, the appropriate
assigned building number. All curb numbering shall adhere to standards of
design as follows: block style numbers; black or white in color; and not less
than two nor more than four inches high.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET NAMING.
   (A)   All public and private streets shall be named. All street naming shall
be subject to approval by the City Council. The street name shall not be a
duplicate of a street name already in use within the city or within a six-mile
radius of the city limits, even if the suffix (avenue, drive, and the like) is
different, unless there is reasonable assurance that those so named street
sections will be connected in the future. A court that comes off a street at a
perpendicular may take that street’s name, but with a Court suffix.
   (B)   Public and private ways shall be further named as follows.
      (1)   Generally, north-south streets shall be designated Avenue.
      (2)   Generally, east-west street shall be designated Street.
      (3)   Streets designated Avenue or Street shall retain that same suffix
for the entire length of the street, regardless of any changes in direction.
The suffix shall represent the general direction of the street.
      (4)   Arterial streets that are meandering or run diagonally to the
north/south or east/west axis may be designated Road.
      (5)   Cul-de-sac streets without cross streets or intersecting streets
shall be designated Court or Place.
      (6)   Small cul-de-sacs which consist of inlets off a street (eyebrows)
shall retain the street name and be numbered as a straight portion of that
street.
      (7)   Collector streets may be designated Drive. Local streets may be
designated Way or Lane.
      (8)   A continuous loop street that has two intersections with the same
street shall be designated Loop. A street that runs in a circle with only one
entrance/exit shall be designated Circle. Loop or circle streets may have only
one interior cross street, which shall have a different name than the Loop or
Circle. Loop and circle streets shall have no streets intersecting the exterior
of the loop or circle.
      (9)   Private streets (such as within a planned development) shall be
designated Place.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.32 COORDINATION WITH THE COUNTY.
   Addressing any residence, building, or premises at or near the city boundary
shall be coordinated with the County Addressing Technician and the numbers
assigned to provide for a smooth transition from city to county addresses. All
naming of streets shall be coordinated with the County Planning Department
during preliminary and final subdivision review processes to avoid duplication
of names within the city and a six-mile radius.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.33 RENAMING STREETS BY COUNCIL, COMMISSION, OR PETITION.
   (A)   By Council or Commission. The City Council or the Planning Commission
may initiate the changing of the name of any street within the city. Where the
Council initiates the change, it shall be referred to the Planning Commission
for public hearing and recommendation.
   (B)   By petition. A property owner may request a change in the name of a
street by filing a petition with the city. The petition shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Street name proposed for change and a description of the location
of the street;
      (2)   Reason for request;
      (3)   Suggested new street name and alternative choice;
      (4)   List of the names and mailing address of each owner and resident of
all property abutting the street proposed for the name change; and
      (5)   Signature of the owners of record of at least 51% of all property
abutting the street proposed for the name change, signifying they agree with
the proposed name change.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.34 CRITERIA FOR STREET NAME CHANGE.
   The following criteria shall be used in determining whether or not a street
name shall be changed.
   (A)   Duplicate and similar names. The street name is a duplicate of an
existing street name (including any name used by the county) or the street name
sounds like another street name and causes confusion;
   (B)   Misspelled names. Street names that have been misspelled or are words
that emphasize a pun or other frivolous association with another work or slang
term, resulting in confusion; and/or
   (C)   Suffix change. Where future development or street extensions change
the classification of a street as described in §
91.31, the suffix may be changed to an appropriate suffix.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.35 PROCEDURE FOR STREET NAME CHANGE.
   (A)   Public hearing.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held before the Planning Commission on
any proposed street name change. The hearing shall be scheduled not later than
45 days after receipt of the petition or recommendation from the City Council.
      (2)   Notice of hearing shall be given:
         (a)   By mail to all property owners abutting the street in question;
         (b)   To all non-owner occupants residing on the street in question
when the information is included with the petition or is a matter of record in
the Recorder’s office;
         (c)   To the general public by the publication of notice in a
newspaper of general circulation a minimum of ten days prior to the hearing;
and
         (d)   By mail to the County Sheriff’s Office, the City Fire
Department, the City Postmaster, and other public service agencies requesting
notice.
   (B)   Recommendation of Commission. Following the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall judge whether the renaming is or is not in the best
interest of the city and the Commission shall submit a recommendation on the
street name change to the City Council for consideration. Notice of the
Commission’s recommendation shall be mailed to all interested parties and those
notified in division (A) above, except that general public notice shall not be
required.
   (C)   Hearing before Council. The City Council shall hold a public hearing
on a proposed street name change whenever there has been filed with the City
Recorder an objection shall be filed, in writing, with the City Recorder within
ten days of the date of mailing of the Commission’s recommendation in
interested parties. If no objection is filed, the Council shall base its
decision on the record in accordance with the recommendation of the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Decision and filing. After opportunity for hearing has been afforded,
the City Council shall, by ordinance, rename the street or shall, by
resolution, reject the proposed name change. A certified copy of each ordinance
shall be filed for record with the County Clerk. A like copy shall be filed
with the County Assessor, County Surveyor, County Elections Department, and the
Postmaster at the city. Notice shall also be mailed to all property owners of
record and other interested parties, including public and private emergency
service agencies, utility companies, and parcel delivery services.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.36 EXISTING ADDRESSES.
   Numbers assigned prior to the effective date of this subchapter, or in place
upon any house, building, or premises on that date, which comply with and are
in conformity with the numbering system herein provided, shall be deemed as
having been assigned by the city. As to any existing numbers that do not comply
with the system, it shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of the
house, building, or premises having a nonconforming number to apply to the city
for the assignment and designation of a new number.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.37 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on the thirtieth day after enactment.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.12 shall:
         (a)   Upon the first occurrence, be punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed the sum of $150;
         (b)   Upon the second occurrence thereof, be punishable by a civil
fine not to exceed the sum of $300; and
         (c)   Upon the third or further occurrences thereof, be punishable by
a civil fine not to exceed the sum of $300.
      (2)   Each day’s violation of any provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.12 shall constitute a separate offense, punishable as set forth in this
division (B).
   (C)   (1)   Any person (including owner or other person having custody and
control of a premises) who shall fail, refuse, or neglect to comply with the
provisions of §§
91.25 through
91.37 or who shall otherwise violate the terms of §§
91.25 through
91.37, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty described in division (C)(1) above, the
City Council shall, on the refusal or neglect, have the power and authority to
cause the number of the building to be placed thereon, the cost thereof to
constitute a lien upon the property and to be entered and collected as any
other lien.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-9-1988; Ord. 336-99, passed 6-14-1999)
CHAPTER 92: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
92.01   Permitted use
   
92.02   Length of sales
   
92.03   Frequency
   
92.04   Site permission
   
92.05   Signs
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PERMITTED USE.
   Garage sales and yard sales, hereinafter referred to in this chapter as
sales, are permitted in residential zones without a major home occupation
license or other license, provided they comply with the standards set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 92.02 LENGTH OF SALES.
   Sales may be no longer than three continuous days.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 FREQUENCY.
   Sales may be held no more than six times per year per address.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 SITE PERMISSION.
   (A)   Sales shall be conducted on property which is regularly occupied by
the person conducting the sale.
   (B)   Multiple family sales are permitted if the sales are held on the
property of one of the participants.
   (C)   Sales conducted by non-profit groups or organizations held on property
not owned by the participants shall be only by special permission of the City
Council.
   (D)   Sales may not occur or encroach upon city streets, sidewalks, or other
right-of-way.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SIGNS.
   (A)   A combined total of six directional or advertising signs may be used
for a sale.
   (B)   Not more than two of the signs may be placed on city street or
sidewalk right-of-way but the signs must be located outside of the traveled
portion of a roadway and may not obstruct or impair pedestrian traffic on a
sidewalk.
   (C)   Signs may be placed on another’s property with the property owner’s
permission.
   (D)   Signs may be no larger than three square feet each.
   (E)   Signs may be placed not sooner than 24 hours before the sale and must
be removed within 24 hours after closing on the final day of the sale.
   (F)   Signs may not be placed on telephone or utility poles.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a civil fine of not less
than $25 nor more than $250.
(Ord. 01-2007, passed 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Rules and regulations
   
93.03   Camping prohibited in public spaces; definitions; penalty
   
93.04   Immunity from liability for injury or property damage arising from use
of trail or structures in public easement or right-of-way
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARKS. All of the properties now or hereafter owned and or controlled
by the City of Glendale, Oregon, and operated as parks available for the use of
the public.
(Ord. 201, passed 10-4-1965)
§ 93.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   For the conduct of persons using or frequenting the public park of the city,
as above defined, the following rules and regulations to be observed and
enforced within or near the public park are hereby established:
   (A)   No person shall cut, damage, or remove any flower, shrub, or tree
without the express consent of the City Council.
   (B)   No person shall deface, injure, damage, mutilate, or molest any
building, installation, piece of equipment, or personal property, be it
publicly or privately owned, within a public park.
   (C)   No person shall build any fire within any public park except it be
built in a stove or fireplace provided therefor.
   (D)   No motor vehicle or bicycle shall be operated, stopped, or parked or
left standing any place in a public park except on roads or parking areas
provided therefor, or, be driven in a manner contrary to law.
   (E)   No person shall permit any horse, cow, or domestic animal to roam or
wander, controlled or uncontrolled, within a public park.
   (F)   Parking or loitering in a public park in the night time after 10:00
p.m. is prohibited, except as may be permitted for special occasions.
   (G)   No person shall solicit or engage in the sale of merchandise or
services or operate any concessions within any public park without permit from
the City Council previously obtained.
   (H)   No person shall dump or dispose of any garbage in any public park
except in receptacles provided therefor, including stoves and fireplaces.
   (I)   No person shall scatter or dispose of any bottles, broken glass, tin
cans, or waste material or rubbish of any kind except in receptacles provided.
   (J)   No person shall discharge any firearm, air rifle, BB gun, slingshot,
bow and arrow or other missile, within or across any public park or part
thereof, or discharge any fireworks therein except on special concession
previously obtained from the City Council.
   (K)   No person shall be intoxicated, have in his or her possession,
consume, give away, or otherwise dispose of any intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drugs within or near to any public park.
   (L)   No person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct or unnecessary
roughness in or about any public park.
   (M)   All ordinances of the city shall apply to and be in full force and
effect within the public parks owned or controlled by the city even though the
parks be wholly or in part outside of the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 201, passed 10-4-1965) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CAMPING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC SPACES; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically authorized by the city code or by
declaration of the Mayor and/or City Manager in emergency circumstances, it is
prohibited for any person to camp in or upon any public property:
      (1)   Within an area zoned for public use as that is described in §
93.01;
      (2)   Within an area determined as a Floodplain Overlay as that zone is
described in Chapter 152;
      (3)   Within any residential or commercial zone, within 50 feet of any
residential or commercial zone and within 50 feet of a residential or
commercial structure regardless of zoning;
      (4)   Within 100 feet of any waterways or creeks;
      (5)   Within 100 feet of where children gather;
      (6)   Within any public right-of-way; and
      (7)   Within private property.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAMP OR CAMPING. To set up, use, maintain or remain in or at a campsite.
      
      CAMP FACILITIES. Included, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
shelters, lean-tos, shacks, or any other structures, vehicles or parts thereof.
      CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots,
beds, sleeping bags, blankets, mattresses, hammocks, or non-city designated
cooking facilities and similar equipment.
      CAMPSITE. Any place where one or more persons have established temporary
living accommodation by use of camp facilities and/or camp paraphernalia.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 93.04 IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY FOR INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE ARISING FROM USE
OF TRAIL OR STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC EASEMENT OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      STRUCTURES. Improvements in a trail, including, but not limited to,
stairs and bridges, that are accessible by a user on foot, on a horse or on a
bicycle or other non-motorized vehicle or conveyance.
      UNIMPROVED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A platted or dedicated public right-of-way over
which a street, road or highway has not been constructed to the standards and
specifications of the city with jurisdiction over the public right-of-way and
for which the city has not expressly accepted responsibility for maintenance.
   (B)   A personal injury or property damage resulting from use of a trail
that is in a public easement or in an unimproved right-of-way, or from use of
structures in the public easement or unimproved right-of-way, by a user on
foot, on a horse or on a bicycle or other non-motorized vehicle or conveyance
does not give rise to a private claim or right of action based on negligence
against:
      (1)   A city with a population of 500,000 or more;
      (2)   The officers, employees or agents of a city with a population of
500,000 or more to the extent the officers, employees or agents are entitled to
defense and indemnification under ORS 30.285;
      (3)   The owner of land abutting the public easement, or unimproved
right-of-way, in a city with a population of 500,000 or more; or
      (4)   A nonprofit corporation and its volunteers for the construction and
maintenance of the trail or the structures in a public easement or unimproved
right-of-way in a city with a population of 500,000 or more.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the limit in division (B) of this section to a city
with a population of 500,000 or more, by adoption of an ordinance or resolution
a city or county to which division (B) of this section does not apply may opt
to limit liability in the manner established by division (B) of this section
for:
      (1)   The city or county that opts in by ordinance or resolution;
      (2)   The officers, employees or agents of the city or county that opts
in to the extent the officers, employees or agents are entitled to defense and
indemnification under ORS 30.285;
      (3)   The owner of land abutting the public easement, or unimproved
right-of-way, in the city or county that opts in by ordinance or resolution;
and
      (4)   A nonprofit corporation and its volunteers for the construction and
maintenance of the trail or the structures in a public easement or unimproved
right-of-way in the city or county that opts in.
   (D)   The immunity granted by this section from a private claim or right of
action based on negligence does not grant immunity from liability:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) or (C)(2) of this section, to
a person that receives compensation for providing assistance, services or
advice in relation to conduct that leads to a personal injury or property
damage;
      (2)   For personal injury or property damage resulting from gross
negligence or from reckless, wanton or intentional misconduct; or
      (3)   For an activity for which a person is strictly liable without
regard to fault. [2011 c.528 §1]
(Res. 03-2024, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the foregoing established rules
and regulations shall be punishable by a civil fine of not less than $25, nor
more than $500, and shall be liable for any damage done by his or her means or
by any animal or person within his or her control.
   (B)   Any person camping in violation of §
93.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of a minimum of $100
for each offense. The fine amount should reasonably relate to the damage the
infraction caused to public use, enjoyment, or property.
(Ord. 201, passed 10-4-1965; Ord. 01-2023, passed 7-10-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESSES LICENSES
      
111.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESSES LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Purpose and scope
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Business license required
   
110.04   Applications
   
110.05   Application fee
   
110.06   License issuance
   
110.07   License procedures
   
110.08   Enforcement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to protect public health, safety, and general
welfare. It provides the city with a process to collect information on
merchants and persons conducting business within the city.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to the activities of transient merchants,
event sponsors, solicitors, and peddlers that are defined and regulated under
Chapters
111 and
112 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   The fees imposed by this chapter are for revenue purposes. Neither
payment of the fee, nor issuance of a license; permits a person to engage in
activity otherwise prohibited by law, nor waives any other regulation imposed
by the city.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The offering for sale, offering to purchase, sale, purchase, or
exchange of goods or services to, with, or from the general public or specific
clients or customers. The profit motive is immaterial.
   LICENSEE. The person, entity, or owner of the business in whose name the
business license provided by this chapter is issued.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.03 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, whether as proprietor, agent, employee, or elsewise, shall
conduct business in the city without first obtaining and thereafter holding a
valid annual business license pursuant to this chapter, except as otherwise
provided. All business licenses expire December 31 of the then current year. A
new business license is required each calendar year.
   (B)   The following activities do not require a business license under this
chapter:
      (1)   Activities of transient merchants, event sponsors, solicitors, and
peddlers as defined and regulated under Chapters
111 and
112 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Churches, in the conduct of their worship, community outreach, and
social service activities;
      (3)   In-home activities that involve no personal contact with members of
the general public within the city and no activity outside the home, such as
on-line internet activities (eBay), writing, consulting, and design services
for clients or customers outside the city;
      (4)   Youth non-profit activities for which admission is not customarily
charged, such as scouts, sports, and 4H;
      (5)   Traditional fundraising activities conducted by persons under the
age of 18 years for the benefit of youth non-profit activities, such as church
bake sales, door-to-door cookie sales, raffle ticket sales, and donation car
washes;
      (6)   Rental of three or fewer dwelling units. For this purpose, the
dwelling units available for rental are counted for all real property owned by
the applicant or entity within the city, and include all real property owned by
any other entity under common control of the applicant or the owners of the
subject entity; and
      (7)   The activities of government organizations such as the United
States federal government and its instrumentalities, the state, the county, the
city, school districts, fire districts, water districts, and ambulance
districts.
   (C)   Except as provided above, business activities by non-profit
organizations (such as thrift stores) and privately owned public utilities
(such as power, telecommunications) do not fall under these exclusions and do
require a business license.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for a business license shall be made on forms available
from the City Recorder. The application shall be signed by the owner or the
owner’s authorized agent and filed with the City Recorder upon payment of the
fee provided therefor by law.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The true name of the person(s) who owns and operates the business,
along with the driver’s license or identification card number of the person
submitting the application;
      (2)   For businesses owned or operated by a corporate entity such as
business corporations, limited liability companies, limited partnerships,
partnerships, cooperatives, and associations, the following:
         (a)   The entity’s true name and authorizing jurisdiction (such as
state of incorporation);
         (b)   The true name and address of the chief executive officer of the
entity; and
         (c)   The true names and addresses of all owners or members of the
entity, except for publicly traded entities.
      (3)   Any assumed business name used, which must be registered with the
Oregon Secretary of State;
      (4)   Physical address of the business premises, mailing address of the
business, telephone and email contact information;
      (5)   Nature of the business - a description of the goods or services the
business will offer for sale, exchange, or purchase, and the outward appearance
and format of operations (such as storefront, business office, in-home);
      (6)   Number of employees, agents, owners, and other persons who will be
operating the business during normal operations;
      (7)   Proposed hours and days of operation;
      (8)   Any prior denial, suspension, or revocation of a business or
professional license issued to, or applied for, by the applicant or the
business for which a license is sought;
      (9)   Any prior criminal conviction of the owner, applicant, or entity
for which a license is sought that relates to fraud, theft, or the business
activity being conducted;
      (10)   Any consumer complaints filed against the owner, applicant, or
entity with any local or state consumer agency in this state or elsewhere;
      (11)   Proof of compliance with any federal and state licensing and
bonding requirements for the activity; and
      (12)   Any other information that the City Recorder reasonably determines
is necessary to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FEE.
   The applicant shall submit with the application a non-refundable fee in an
amount set by Council ordinance or resolution. The fee shall be reduced by 25%
for applications for the current year filed after March 31, by 50% for those
filed after June 30, and by 75% for those filed after September 30. There is no
reduction in fees for applications filed in advance of the year for which the
license is requested.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.06 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receiving the application and the non-refundable fee, the City
Recorder shall promptly review the application for completeness. The applicant
shall have 30 days to correct any deficiencies identified by the City Recorder.
   (B)   Upon determining the application is complete, the City Recorder shall
forward the application to the Mayor and Council for review.
      (1)   For applications that seek a new business that was not licensed in
the previous year, the applicant shall personally appear before the Mayor and
Council at a scheduled public meeting.
      (2)   Applications that request renewal of an existing business license
are not required to personally appear unless the Mayor and Council place the
renewal application on the consent agenda.
      (3)   On review, the Mayor and Council shall determine whether the
application and proposed business comply with this chapter. The Mayor and
Council may set reasonable conditions on the licensee to ensure compliance with
this chapter. The decision of the Mayor and Council is final.
   (C)   Upon the Mayor and Council’s determination that the application and
proposed business comply with this chapter, with or without conditions, the
City Recorder shall issue a business license valid until December 31 of the
year for which it is effective. The license shall set forth the name of the
licensee, the name of the business if different, the address of the premises,
the nature of the business, the date of issuance, and any conditions imposed on
the licensee.
   (D)   The business license must be posted at all times in a conspicuous
place upon the business premises, available for inspection by the public,
employees, prospective employees, and city agents.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.07 LICENSE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Change of ownership. Licensees must notify the City Recorder ten days
before any change of ownership of the business. The new owner must file a new
business application and obtain a license under the new owner’s name. Licenses
are not transferrable.
   (B)   Moving or terminating business. Licensees must notify the City
Recorder 30 days prior to relocating the business, and promptly upon
terminating the business. The Mayor and Council may require a new application
if the business will have a substantial change in character at its new
location.
   (C)   Multiple businesses. A business conducted at two or more locations
shall be deemed to be separate businesses, each requiring a separate license.
An owner conducting two or more businesses at one location shall be deemed one
business under one license, except that any business activity operated under
concession, franchise, or by a different owner at the same location as a
licensed business shall require its own license.
   (D)   Inspections. The City Recorder or designee is authorized to make
lawful inspections of business premises and records to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
   (E)   Evidence of conducting business. In any proceeding concerning
violation of this chapter, a person or entity’s public representation by way of
advertisement or solicitation by mail, newspaper, radio, telephone, television,
internet, social media, similar media, or any signs displayed in public view,
that such business is being conducted, expressly or implied, offering to sell,
exchange, or purchase goods or services in the course of such business to the
public or a segment thereof, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
person or entity was transacting the business suggested by such public
representation within the city when such representation was made.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. The Mayor and Council may deny an application on
the following grounds:
      (1)   Materially false, misleading, or omitted information in the
application;
      (2)   Failure to provide proof of compliance with, or violation of,
federal and state licensing and bonding requirements;
      (3)   Previous ownership or operation of a business under this chapter
that has been found to constitute a public nuisance which was ordered abated;
      (4)   Conviction of the applicant or owner within the past seven years of
any crime relating to fraud, theft, or the business activity being conducted,
or any crime which in the opinion of the Mayor and Council bears unfavorably on
the character and ability of the person to conduct business with the general
public;
      (5)   The proposed business is not lawful; and
      (6)   The applicant or owner owes the city any fees or fines, whether
related to this chapter or not.
   (B)   Summary suspension. Upon determination that the conduct of the
business creates an imminent threat to life, public health, or property, the
City Recorder may summarily suspend the business license for a period not to
exceed 30 days, upon issuing a notice to the licensee stating the reason
therefor. The notice shall be delivered to the licensee. Suspension takes
effect immediately. The licensee may appeal the suspension to the Mayor and
Council. The City Recorder may rescind the suspension if the business conduct
is remedied. The Mayor and Council shall be promptly informed of the suspension
and shall promptly consider whether to revoke the business license.
   (C)   Revocation. Upon suspension of a business license, or whenever grounds
appear, the Mayor and Council may revoke a business license at a scheduled
public meeting upon finding that the licensee has violated provisions
constituting grounds for denial of an application under this chapter, fails to
allow a lawful inspection of the business premises of records, or otherwise
violates any provision of this chapter. The City Recorder shall promptly
provide written notice of the revocation to the licensee. Notice of revocation
shall be given at least 15 days before the revocation effective date unless an
appeal or writ of review is filed. The Mayor and Council may suspend a license,
or continue a suspension, until the revocation date if the licensee’s
noncompliance threatens life, public health, or property.
   (D)   Late renewal. If a licensee with a license that expired December 31 in
the prior year fails to renew the license for the current year, and is
conducting business in the current year without a new annual license but is
otherwise in compliance with this chapter, the City Recorder may accept a late
application for renewal with a one-time late charge of $100 for each calendar
month or part thereof that the person conducted business without a license in
the current year in lieu of any other penalty.
   (E)   Legal enforcement. The city may obtain relief, including an
injunction, for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to, or instead of, imposing any other enforcement remedy
available, the Mayor and Council may, upon determining a violation of this
chapter, impose a fine of not more than $100 for every full business day during
which a person conducts business in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2019, passed 8-12-2019)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and scope
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License required; fee
   
111.04   License application; standards and limitations
   
111.05   Application process; issuance; appeal
   
111.06   Display of license
   
111.07   Removal of structures
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter provides reasonable and necessary regulations for the
licensing of transient merchants and special events in order to:
      (1)   Protect the public health and safety;
      (2)   Maintain the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
streets, sidewalks, and areas open to the public;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the peaceful enjoyment of the areas near
places where the transient vending activity or special event is occurring; and
      (4)   Preserve, protect, and enhance the economic, scenic, historic, and
aesthetic values and objectives of the city.
   (B)   The regulations of this code are not intended to permit any violation
of the provisions of any other law or regulation.
   (C)   These regulations shall apply to activities on city owned and leased
property.
   (D)   These regulations shall not apply to garage sales, yard sales, rummage
sales, or swap meets conducted on private property, provided that the sale is
not conducted over a period in excess of three consecutive days or more often
than three times per calendar year.
   (E)   These regulations shall not apply to sales conducted by municipal,
government, religious, educational, registered non-profit or charitable or
other similar organizations, provided that the sale is conducted on premises
owned or leased by the applicant for the regular conduct of its business or
affairs.
   (F)   These regulations shall not apply to temporary or seasonal uses within
permanent structures, except for those activities within permanent structures
subject to regulation as a special event.
   (G)   Regulation of special events shall not apply to private parties or to
events taking place within a permanent structure having a current on-premises
license from the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (H)   Exemption of a use from the provisions of this chapter shall not
exempt the use from other applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANCE. A dance which is open to the public, or for which admission is
charged directly or indirectly.
   PERSON. The singular and plural and any individual, firm, corporation,
association, club, co-partnership, society, or any other organization.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any activity which is likely to attract at any one time an
assembly of persons, conducted for a specified period at one or more locations
within the city under auspices of and subject to the supervision or direction
of a single person, including, but not limited to, festivals, fairs, shows,
exhibitions, auctions, city or regional celebrations, athletic events, and
public dances.
      (1)   SMALL EVENTS. Those events lasting no more than one day, which have
a nominal impact on city operations or the general public, including, but not
limited to, holiday celebrations, block parties (not requiring street closure),
garage and rummage sales.
      (2)   MEDIUM EVENTS. Those events that have a minor impact on city
operations or the general public, such as parades or street closure requests.
      (3)   LARGE EVENTS. Those events that have a major impact on city
operations or the general public, such as multiple street closures. LARGE
EVENTS will require applicant attendance with appropriate city staff at even
preparation and planning meetings. The applicant will also be required to
provide an adequate number of volunteers to assist with the event.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who offers food, beverages, produce,
merchandise, a service, or anything of value for sale within the city on a
temporary or seasonal basis. The following classes of TRANSIENT MERCHANTS are
hereby established:
      (1)   CLASS 1. A transient merchant requiring direct connection to city-
operated utilities for the preparation or storage of that which is being
offered for sale. UTILITIES includes water, storm sewer, or sanitary sewer. A
license to a CLASS 1 TRANSIENT MERCHANT is issued for a single period per
calendar year, not to exceed 180 consecutive days, with no renewals or
extensions.
      (2)   CLASS 2. A transient merchant not requiring direct connection to
city-operated utilities for the preparation or storage of that which is being
offered for sale. A license to a CLASS 2 TRANSIENT MERCHANT is issued for a
period of 30 consecutive days, with a maximum of five renewals per calendar
year (maximum 180 days).
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in business as a transient merchant or
conduct a special event within the city without first obtaining a license as
provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No person shall be deemed totally exempt from the application of
this chapter by reason of that person having conducted business within the city
prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The license fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
The fees shall be payable in full at the time of submission of an application
and shall be non-refundable.
      (2)   No license shall be assignable or transferable or shall authorize
the applicant to conduct any other type of business of special event.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 111.04 LICENSE APPLICATION; STANDARDS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   An applicant for a license under this chapter must file an application
in writing. The City Recorder shall provide the application form and establish
written procedures for submittal requirements necessary to process the
application in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The application will be reviewed to determine compliance with the
following standards and limitations:
      (1)   Transient merchant license.
         (a)   The proposed use must meet the definition of transient merchant
and be subject to classification as set out in this chapter. Any use not
meeting the definition of transient merchant or subject to classification shall
be deemed to be a use subject to review by the City Council.
         (b)   Transient merchants shall not be permitted on those properties
where zoning specifically prevents such activities. On all other non-city owned
property written permission of the property owner for the proposed use shall be
required. No encroachment upon city rights-of-way shall be permitted.
         (c)   Each license shall be issued for a single fixed location, and no
transient merchant shall change location except upon permitted license renewal.
         (d)   No transient merchant who is a food vendor shall be permitted to
provide tables or seating for the use of patrons. A table for condiments will
be permitted.
      (2)   Special event license.
         (a)   The proposed use must meet the definition of special event. Any
use not meeting the definition of special event shall be deemed to be a use
subject to review by the City Council.
         (b)   Special events shall not be permitted on those properties where
zoning specifically prohibits such activities. On all other non-city owned
property written permission of the property owner is required. No encroachment
upon city rights-of-way shall be permitted.
         (c)   A special event license is issued to the sponsor of the special
event.
         (d)   The license shall be limited to the duration of the special
event, not to exceed 15 days.
         (e)   The application must be submitted 14 days prior to a small
event, and 45 days prior to medium and large events. If the last day for
submission falls on a day when the city administrative offices are closed, the
application will be considered if it is received by the city on the next
business day. Faxed applications must be followed up by the original and the
non-refundable processing fee within five working days of the faxed copy.
      (3)   Compliance. All licenses shall also comply with the following:
         (a)   All licenses must comply with all state and local laws,
including, but not limited to, regulations and standards imposed or enforced by
the county and the city.
         (b)   All debris and trash must be removed from an event site
immediately after the event, in compliance with all city, county, and state
standards, and may not be poured into storm sewers or onto the ground. Adequate
trash receptacles must be provided in accordance with the terms of the license.
All expenses will be the responsibility of the event applicant, including, but
not limited to:
            1.   The cost of providing, erecting, and moving barricades and
signs;
            2.   The cost of providing and moving garbage and waste
receptacles;
            3.   The cost of repairing or replacing damaged city property;
            4.   The cost of event venue cleanup; and
            5.   The cost of city personnel whom the city has required to work
overtime. Where the city reasonably anticipates that it will incur such unusual
or extraordinary expenses related to the event, the City Recorder may require,
as a condition of issuance of a permit, that a sum be deposited to meet such
costs.
         (c)   No use will be permitted:
            1.   Within the required landscape or setback area of the property;
            2.   That blocks vision at street intersections;
            3.   That blocks a crosswalk or otherwise impedes the flow of
pedestrian traffic;
            4.   That blocks entrances or exits from buildings;
            5.   That blocks a driveway or otherwise impedes the flow of
vehicular traffic;
            6.   Without the use of readily removable barricades;
            7.   Within ten feet of any disabled parking space or access ramp;
            8.   Within 50 feet of any entrance or driveway to a health care
facility with an emergency or urgent care facility, school, or police or fire
station;
            9.   Within any service drive of a parking lot; and
            10.   In a location which conflicts with any fire or safety code
regulation or which fails to maintain a minimum 20-foot wide fire lane.
         (d)   The City Recorder may impose conditions of approval on the
license that are necessary to comply with the requirements of the license and
this chapter in determining whether to grant or deny a license, or in setting
any conditions of approval. The City Recorder shall consider:
            1.   The need to maintain the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on streets, sidewalks, and areas open to the public;
            2.   Criminal history of the applicant or event sponsor;
            3.   Any documented history of problems with an applicant or event
previously held;
            4.   Suitability of the premises for the type of activity applied
for; and
            5.   Compliance with all other applicable local and state laws,
ordinances and regulations, and the standards set forth in this section.
            6.   When applicant intends sound amplification which exceeds the
level permitted under §
90.17; and
            7.   Where applicant intends to sell/serve alcoholic beverages and
has failed to obtain a permit from the State OLCC.
         (e)   The conditions applicable to a license may include the right of
the city or county to a post-licensing inspection of the licensee’s business
premises to ensure compliance with appropriate structural, mechanical, fire,
health, and/or safety regulations or concerns. Inspection may also be conducted
from time to time during the course of the license period, as deemed necessary
by the city or the county. If the licensee fails, within the specified time, or
if no time is specified, a reasonable time, to remedy any noncomplying practice
or defective condition identified as a result of any inspection, the licensee’s
license shall be revoked, without refund.
         (f)   The city shall call upon the Rural Fire District to set general
policy for fire safety and to determine the specific fire safety requirements,
including fire safety inspections, for any individual transient merchant or
special event. Whenever, in the opinion of the Fire District it is necessary
for public safety at a special event (such as fireworks and bonfires, heat
generating appliances), the Fire District may require the special event
licensee to contract with the city and/or Fire District and/or Glendale
Ambulance Service for standby fire and emergency medical watch. The licensee
shall be responsible for paying the fees incurred for such coverage and the
licensee shall execute a contract for the services as a condition to receiving
the special event license.
         (g)   The city shall have the authority and discretion to require
structural inspections for any temporary structure.
         (h)   All licensees for use of city owned property, including rights-
of-way, shall be required to furnish evidence of liability insurance providing
primary coverage in an amount that is not less than the city’s tort liability
limits established by the state legislature naming the city as an additional
insured. The liability insurance shall apply to, and provide coverage for, any
an all claims for bodily injury and property damage arising from or caused by
the use for which the license is granted and shall be primary coverage. In lieu
of meeting the insurance requirements of this section, any governmental entity
may enter into an agreement with the city to indemnify and hold the city
harmless in the event of any damage or injury resulting from the use.
         (i)   All licenses shall include a condition of approval requiring the
licensee to reimburse the city the costs incurred by the Fire District in
responding to the special event or transient merchant’s operation. Payment must
be made to the city within 30 days of the date of the city’s invoice. In any
action to collect unpaid balances, the city is entitled to collect its costs
and attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see §
111.02
§ 111.05 APPLICATION PROCESS; ISSUANCE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Application process. Upon receipt of a completed application and fee,
the City Recorder shall refer the application to the appropriate city
department(s) for review.
   (B)   Issuance. The City Recorder shall issue a license if the City Recorder
finds that the application has been approved by the appropriate department(s),
or can meet approval through appropriate conditions. Use of city property by
public bodies, including all boards, committees, and commissions of the city
and other governmental entities, shall be given priority. Subject to the prior
or superior rights of such public bodies, the application of any person,
association, or organization will be considered on a “first-come” basis.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person whose application for a license has been denied,
whose license has been issued subject to conditions, who disagrees with the
transient merchant class assigned to the application, or whose license has been
subsequently revoked, may appeal the decision to the City Council. The appeals
shall be filed within five days of the date of the decision from which the
appeal is being made and shall be filed with the City Recorder. No business
shall be conducted while the appeal is pending. The fee for appeals shall be
set by Council resolution. The Council shall schedule a hearing date that shall
not be later than the second regular session following the filing of the
written appeal with the City Recorder, and shall notify the applicant of the
date and time that the applicant may appear either in person or by a
representative.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 111.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The licensee shall display the license, together with any conditions, at all
times on the business premises, in a location visible to customers.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 111.07 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES.
   Any structures, carts, vending units, tents, tables, or other appurtenances
used by licensee may not be located or relocated on the property until
commencement of the license term, and shall be removed from the property
promptly upon the expiration of the license term.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or causes a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to the punishment as prescribed in §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon any violation, the City Council or a designee of the City Council
may order the licensed activity to cease, and upon receipt of written notice,
the activity shall immediately cease.
   (C)   Any such persons and licensees shall indemnify and hold the city and
its officers, agents, and employees harmless from and against all claims for
injury, loss or damage arising out of or in any way related to the operation of
licensee’s business.
   (D)   This agreement to indemnify and defend shall survive termination or
revocation of licensee’s license.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit and license required
   
112.03   Permit and license application; required information; fee
   
112.04   Permit and license investigation and issuance; surety in lieu of
investigation
   
112.05   Investigation fee; waiver
   
112.06   License revocation
   
112.07   Appeals procedures
   
112.08   License expiration
   
112.09   License exhibition requirements
   
112.10   Exclusivity of location use and public inconvenience prohibited
   
112.11   Receipt and requirements for taking orders
   
112.12   Limitations of hours of solicitation
   
112.13   City records of licenses and violations
   
112.14   Exemptions from provisions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER or SOLICITOR.  Any person whether a resident of the city or not, who
goes from house to house or from place to place within the city, taking orders
for goods, wares, or merchandise or any article or thing of value for present
or future delivery or for services to then be performed or to be performed in
the future or for the making, manufacturing, or repair of any article or thing
whatsoever for present or future delivery; provided, however, that this shall
not be deemed to include regular commercial travelers employed by wholesale
houses and selling goods, wares, merchandise, and services to merchants of this
city, nor to newspaper vendors.
   PERSON. The singular and plural, and means and includes any person, firm, or
corporation, association, club, co-partnership, or society or any other
organization.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.02 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler or
solicitor as defined in §
112.01 within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a permit
and license therein as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 PERMIT AND LICENSE APPLICATION; REQUIRED INFORMATION; FEE.
   Applicants for permit and license under this chapter must file with the City
Recorder a sworn application in writing, on a form to be furnished by the City
Recorder which shall give the following information:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant;
   (B)   Address (legal and local);
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold or services to be performed and in the case of products of farm or orchard
whether produced or grown by the applicant;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with a
license number or other means of identification;
   (G)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately prior
to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two-inch,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner;
   (H)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
   (I)   At the time of filing the application the applicant shall pay a non-
refundable investigation fee set by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.04 PERMIT AND LICENSE INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; SURETY IN LIEU OF
INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, the name shall be referred to the
County Sheriff, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant’s business
and moral character to be made as he or she deems necessary for the protection
of the public good, and who shall make a report thereof to the City Recorder
within a period of 30 days from the date of the filing of the application.
   (B)   If, as a result of such an investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Sheriff shall
endorse on the application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons for
same, and return such application to the City Recorder who shall notify the
applicant that his or her application is disapproved and that no permit and
license shall be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such an investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Sheriff shall
endorse on the application his or her approval, execute a permit addressed to
the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and return the
permit, together with the application to the City Recorder, who shall, upon
payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his or her
permit and issue a license. Such license shall contain the signature of the
issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the type
of or class of license issued, the kind of goods to be sold or the services to
be performed there under, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the
length of time the same shall be operative, as well as the license number and
other information identifying the description of any vehicle used in such
peddling. The City Recorder shall keep a permit record of all licenses issued.
   (D)   If any applicant for a permit and license is unwilling to receive a
license only upon the conclusion of a 30-day period of investigation as
provided in this section, and he or she desires the issuance of a license
immediately upon application for such permit, he or she may deposit with the
City Recorder a cash or good and sufficient surety bond in the sum of $1,000
conditioned upon the making of final delivery of the goods ordered or services
to be performed in accordance with the terms of such order or failing therein,
that the advanced payment of such order be refunded. Thereupon, such license or
licenses may immediately be issued. Any person aggrieved by the action of any
peddler or solicitor shall have a right of action on the bond for the recovery
of money or damage of both. Such bond shall remain on deposit for a period of
six months after the expiration of such license, unless sooner released by the
City Council.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.05 INVESTIGATION FEE; WAIVER.
   No investigation fee required to be paid under §
112.04 shall be required of any person selling goods or merchandise or
performing services on a purely non-profit basis for charitable, educational,
or religious benefit, or if a person claims to have the right under state or
federal law to peddle or solicit the city without payment of an investigation
fee, provided such facts are established by the applicant to the satisfaction
of the City Recorder.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.06 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license may be revoked by the City Recorder for the violation of any of
the ordinances of the city or of any state or federal law, and whenever such
peddler or solicitor, in the judgment of the Recorder, ceases to possess the
character and qualifications required by this chapter for the issuance of such
permit.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.07 APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Sheriff or City Recorder in the
denial of an application for permit or license as provided in §
112.04, or in the decision with reference to revocation of a license as
provided in §
112.06, shall have the right of appeal to the Council. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council within ten days after notice of the action
complained of has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a statement
setting forth fully the ground for appeal. The Council shall set a time and
place for a hearing of such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to
the applicant by the mailing thereof, postage prepaid to the appellant, at his
or her last known address, at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing. The decision and order of the Council on such appeal shall be final
and conclusive.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.08 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on December 31 in the year when issued. All other licenses shall expire on the
date specified in the license. Any licensee holding an expired license shall,
in order to obtain a new license, make application therefor and follow all of
the requirements of this chapter as fully as if no license had ever been issued
to him or her.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.09 LICENSE EXHIBITION REQUIREMENTS.
   Peddlers or solicitors are required to exhibit their licenses at the request
of any Sheriff’s deputy or of any citizen.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.10 EXCLUSIVITY OF LOCATION USE AND PUBLIC INCONVENIENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No peddler or solicitor shall have the exclusive right to any location
on the public streets nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor
shall he or she be permitted to operate in any congested area where his or her
operation might impede or inconvenience the public.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a Sheriff’s deputy
exercised in good faith shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 RECEIPT AND REQUIREMENTS FOR TAKING ORDERS.
   All orders taken by licensed solicitors shall be in writing, and in
duplicate, stating the name as it appears on the license, and address, of both
the solicitor and his or her employer, the terms thereof and the amount paid in
advance, and one copy shall be given the purchaser.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.12 LIMITATIONS OF HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   No person, whether or not the person is required to be licensed under this
chapter, shall go from residence to residence or from place to place within the
city for the purpose of peddling or soliciting, poll taking, conducting a
survey, or for any other purpose without the invitation of the persons residing
or working within such locations after 8:00 p.m. or before 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 CITY RECORDS OF LICENSES AND VIOLATIONS.
   The County Sheriffs shall report to the City Recorder all convictions or
violations of this chapter and the City Recorder shall maintain a record for
each license issued and record the reported violation thereof.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.14 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the peddlers or solicitors of, or taking
orders for the sale of, any fruits, vegetables, berries, butter, eggs, milk,
poultry, meats, or farm products raised or produced by such peddler.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or causes to be violated any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and shall be subject to the
punishment prescribed in §
10.99.
(Ord. 06-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Offenses
   
130.01   Curfews for minors
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct at fires
   
130.03   Prohibiting disorderly conduct and related offenses
   
130.04   Failure to supervise a child
Adopted Codes
   
130.15   Adoption of state codes and laws
Drug Paraphernalia
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Possession unlawful
   
130.32   Manufacture or delivery unlawful
   
130.33   Advertisement unlawful
   
130.34   Psilocybin-related businesses prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.01 CURFEWS FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew imposed. No minor under 18 years of age shall be on a street,
highway, park, alley, or other public place between the hours specified in
division (B) below, unless:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person 21
years of age or over and authorized by the parent or by law to have custody of
the minor;
      (2)   The minor is engaged in a lawful pursuit or activity which requires
the minor’s presence upon the street, highway, park, alley, or other public
place; or
      (3)   The minor is emancipated under ORS 419B.550 to 419B.558.
   (B)   Curfew hours. For the purpose of this section, the applicable hours of
curfew are daily between 12:00 midnight and 5:30 a.m. of the following morning.
   (C)   Parental responsibility. No parent, guardian, or other person having
legal custody of a minor under the age of 18 years shall permit the minor to be
in violation of this section.
   (D)   Action taken in the event of violation. Any police officer having
reasonable grounds to believe a minor has violated this section may take the
minor into temporary custody as provided by ORS 419C.080, 419C.085 and 419C.088
and said minor may be subjected to further proceedings.
   (E)   Refusal of parent or guardian to take custody. No parent, guardian, or
other person having legal custody of a minor taken into custody as provided in
division (D) shall refuse to come immediately and take custody of the minor
upon being notified to do so.
(Ord. 02-2006, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT FIRES.
   (A)   No person at or near a fire shall obstruct or impede the fighting of
the fire, interfere with Fire Department personnel or Fire Department
apparatus, behave in a disorderly manner, or refuse to observe promptly an
order of a member of the Fire Department.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, members of the Fire Department are
endowed with the same powers of arrest as are conferred upon peace officers for
violations of city ordinances.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1981) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PROHIBITING DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   Assault. No person shall:
      (1)   Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly cause physical injury to
another; or
      (2)   With criminal negligence cause physical injury to another by means
of a deadly weapon.
   (B)   Menacing. No person shall by word or conduct intentionally attempt to
place another person in fear of imminent serious physical injury.
   (C)   Harassment. No person shall, with intent to harass, annoy or alarm
another person or subject another to offensive physical contact.
   (D)   Recklessly endangering another person. No person shall recklessly
engage in conduct which creates a substantial risk of serious physical injury
to another person.
   (E)   Disorderly conduct. No person shall, with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk thereof:
      (1)   Engage in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Use fighting words or obscene language, or make an obscene gesture
in a public place;
      (3)   Disturb any lawful assembly or persons without lawful authority;
      (4)   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic in or on a public way,
sidewalk, walkway, public place, and street or roadway;
      (5)   Congregate with other persons in a public place and refuse to
comply with a lawful order to disperse;
      (6)   Initiate or circulate a report, knowing it to be false, concerning
an alleged or impending fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, or other
emergency; and/or
      (7)   Create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which he or she is not licensed or privileged to do.
   (F)   Loitering. No person shall:
      (1)   Loiter in, on, or near a school building or grounds, not having any
reason or relationship involving custody or responsibility for a student, or
upon inquiry by a peace officer or school official, not having a specific
legitimate reason for being there; and
      (2)   Loiter in, on, or about a public place frequented by children,
including swimming pools, school bus stops, playgrounds and parks, and public
premises adjacent thereto, for the purpose of annoying, bothering, or molesting
children.
   (G)   Abuse of venerated objects.
      (1)   No person shall intentionally abuse a public monument or structure,
a place of worship or burial, or the national or state flag.
      (2)   As used in this section, ABUSE means to deface, damage, defile, or
otherwise physically mistreat in a manner likely to outrage public
sensibilities.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FAILURE TO SUPERVISE A CHILD.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SUPERVISION OF A CHILD UNDER THIS SECTION.
Includes a parent, lawful guardian, or other person lawfully charged with the
care or custody of a child under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   Failure to supervise. A person responsible for the care of minor
commits the offense of failure to supervise when that child commits the
following acts:
      (1)   When the child is in violation of this code such that he or she is
brought within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court;
      (2)   When the child violates the curfew law (§
130.01); and
      (3)   Fails to attend school as required under ORS 339.010.
   (C)   Affirmative defenses. If a person fails to supervise a child under
division (B)(1) above, it is an affirmative defense when that person:
      (1)   Is the victim of the act that brings the child within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court; or
      (2)   Reported the act to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. 09-2006, passed 7-10-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
ADOPTED CODES
§ 130.15 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES AND LAWS.
   (A)   Oregon Criminal Code adopted. Violation of any provision of the Oregon
Criminal Code of 1978, being ORS Chapters 161 through 167, as now or hereafter
constituted, shall be an offense against this city.
   (B)   Adoptions of state criminal laws. Violation of provisions in ORS
Chapters 131 to 169 inclusive, as now or hereafter constituted, shall be an
offense against this city.
   (C)   Oregon Uniform Controlled Substances Act adopted. Violation of any
provision of the Oregon Uniform Controlled Substances Act of 1977, as now or
hereafter constituted, shall be an offense against this city.
   (D)   Oregon Liquor Control Act adopted. Violation of any provision of the
Oregon Liquor Control Act of 1933, being ORS Chapter 471 and ORS 474.105 to
474.115, as now or hereafter constituted, shall be an offense against this
city.
   (E)   Possession and Use of Firearms Act adopted. Violation of any provision
of the Possession and Use of any Firearms, ORS 166.180 to 166.645, inclusive as
now or hereafter constituted, shall be an offense against this city.
   (F)   Offenses outside city limits. Where permitted by state law, an act
made unlawful by this section shall constitute an offense when committed on any
property owned or leased by the city, even though outside the corporate limits
of the city.
   (G)   Jurisdiction. In the above acts and codes, the city shall have
jurisdiction over violations and misdemeanors only.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1981) Penalty, see §
130.99
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug or its immediate precursor classified in
Schedules I through V under Federal Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 811
to 812, as modified under ORS 475.035.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this
subchapter.
      (1)   It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, or designed for use, in
removing twigs and seeds from, or otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (2)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, the
authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of this subchapter; the innocence of any owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as a direct violation of this section shall not prevent
a finding that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug
paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Ord. 03-2007, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 130.31 POSSESSION UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-2007, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, or manufacture with intent to
deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-2007, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.33 ADVERTISEMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill,
or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under circumstances where
one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or
in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia.
(Ord. 03-2007, passed 3-5-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.34 PSILOCYBIN-RELATED BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   The establishment of a psilocybin product manufacturer or a psilocybin
service center operator, or a combination thereof, pursuant to the Oregon
Psilocybin Services Act, is prohibited within the area subject to the
jurisdiction of the City of Glendale, Oregon.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of a provision of §
130.01 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
130.02 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $300, or both.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.03 shall be punished as provided in § 10.99.
   (E)   (1)   A first-time conviction for the offense of failure to supervise
a child (§
130.04) shall result in a fine not to exceed $100.
      (2)   Each additional conviction for the offense of failure to supervise
a child shall result in a fine in an amount to be determined, not to exceed
$1,000.
      (3)   In addition to the fines imposed under §
130.04, restitution may be ordered to a victim of the minor’s conduct. The
maximum fine imposed shall not exceed $2,500.
   (F)   The penalty for the violation of §
130.15 shall be as provided by the statutes adopted.
   (G)   Any person who violates §
130.31 shall be fined not more than $2,500.
   (H)   Any person who violates §
130.32 shall be fined not more than $2,500.
   (I)   Any person 18 years of age or older who violates §
130.32 by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under 18 years of age shall
be fined not more than $2,500.
   (J)   Any person who violates §
130.33 shall be fined not more than $5,000.
(Ord. 264, passed 1-12-1981; Ord. 02-2006, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 08-2006,
passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 09-2006, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 03-2007, passed 3-5-
2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
      
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
154.   COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
      
155.   ZONING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Definitions
Formation; Assessment
   
150.15   Petition for formation
   
150.16   Plans and specifications
   
150.17   Assessing
   
150.18   Resolution
   
150.19   Notices
   
150.20   Prevention by remonstrances
   
150.21   Ordinance creating local improvement district
   
150.22   Assessment ordinance procedures
   
150.23   Lien recording; payments over time or by cash
   
150.24   Errors in assessment calculations
Reassessment; Miscellaneous
   
150.35   Authority to make reassessment
   
150.36   Basis for amount and method of reassessment
   
150.37   Effect of reassessment; exceptions
   
150.38   Council resolution to reassess
   
150.39   Publication of notice of reassessment; contents
   
150.40   Personal notice to each owner; right to file objections
   
150.41   Hearing on objections; revision of reassessment
   
150.42   Reassessment ordinance
   
150.43   Lien docket entry; crediting prior payments
   
150.44   Right of purchaser at sale under prior assessment
   
150.45   Review of reassessment
   
150.46   Additional reassessment procedure; time limitation
   
150.47   Municipal bonds accepted as payment for assessment liens
   
150.48   Assessment of public property benefitted by improvements
   
150.49   Public roads included in sidewalk improvement district; assessment on
benefitted property
   
150.50   Parking and city improvements
   
150.51   Abandonment of proceedings
   
150.52   Curative provision
   
150.53   Special provisions for sanitary and storm sewers
   
150.54   Apportionment of local improvement district assessments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Local Improvement District Ordinance of
the City of Glendale”.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACTUAL COSTS. All direct or indirect cost incurred by the city in order
to deliver goods and services or to undertake a capital construction project.
The ACTUAL COST of providing goods or services to a property or a property
owner includes the cost, or an allocated portion of the total amount of the
actual cost, of making a good or service available to the property owner,
whether stated at a minimum, fixed, or variable amount. ACTUAL COST includes,
but is not limited to, the cost of labor, materials, attorney’s fees, supplies,
equipment rental, property acquisition, permits, financing, engineering,
administration, reasonable program delinquencies, return on investment,
required fees, insurance, administration, accounting, depreciation,
amortization, operation, maintenance, repair or replacement, and debt service,
including debt service payments or payments into reserve accounts for debt
service and payments of amounts necessary to meet debt service coverage
requirements.
      ASSESSMENT FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENT. Any fee, charge, or assessment that
does not exceed the actual costs incurred by the city for design, construction,
and financing of a local improvement.
      BOND INDEBTEDNESS. Any formally executed written agreement representing a
promise by the city to pay to another a specific sum of money, at a specified
date or dates at least one year in the future.
      CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION. The construction, modification, replacement,
repair, remodeling, or renovation of a structure, or addition to a structure,
which is expected to have useful life of more than one year, and includes, but
is not limited to:
         (a)   Acquisition of land, or a legal interest in land, in conjunction
with the capital construction of a structure;
         (b)   Acquisition and or installation of machinery or equipment,
furnishings, or materials which will become an integral part of a structure;
         (c)   Activities related to capital construction, such as planning,
design, acquisition of interim or permanent financing, research, land use and
environmental impact studies, acquisition of permits or licences, or other
services connected with construction; and/or
         (d)   Acquisition of existing structures, or legal interest in
structures, in conjunction with the capital construction.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. Means:
         (a)   The grading, graveling, paving, or other surfacing of any
street; or opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the
grade of, or constructing any street;
         (b)   The construction of sidewalks;
         (c)   The construction or upgrading of any storm drains;
         (d)   Water improvements;
         (e)   Sanitary sewer improvements; or
         (f)   Any other public improvement authorized by the Council.
      CITY. The City of Glendale, Oregon.
      CITY STAFF. Includes the use of contracted consultants and engineers as
may be required.
      COUNCIL. The Glendale City Council.
      ESTIMATED ASSESSMENT. With respect to each property to be assessed in
connection with a local improvement, the total assessment that, at the time of
giving notice of the assessment and the right to object or remonstrate, the
city estimates will be levied against the property following completion of the
local improvements. The estimate shall be based on the city’s estimate at the
time of the actual cost of the local improvement and the proposed formula of
apportioning the actual cost to the property. ESTIMATED ASSESSMENTS shall be
determined by excluding from the actual cost the cost of financing associated
with any bonds issued to accommodate payments or installments.
      EXEMPT BOND INDEBTEDNESS. Also includes bonded indebtedness authorized by
specific provision of the state constitution; and bonded indebtedness incurred,
or to be incurred for capital construction or capital improvements that is
issued as a general obligation of the city after 11-6-1990, with the approval
of the electors of the city; and bonded indebtedness incurred or to be incurred
for capital constructions or capital improvements that is issued as a general
obligation of the city after 11-6-1990, with the approval of the electors of
the city.
      EXEMPT BONDED INDEBTEDNESS. With respect to each property to be assessed
in connection with a local improvement, the total amount which will be levied
against the property following completion of the local improvement.
      FINAL ASSESSMENT. With respect to each property to be assessed in
connection with a local improvement. The FINAL ASSESSMENT shall comprise of the
total amount levied against the property following completion of the local
improvement. The total assessment shall be based on the actual cost of the
local improvement and the formula for apportioning the actual cost to the
property.
      FINANCING. All cost necessary or attributable to acquiring and preserving
interim or permanent financing of a local improvement.
         (a)   The cost of FINANCING may include the salaries, wages, and
benefits payable to the employees of the city for work performed in connection
with the financing of a local improvement or any part thereof. However, as a
condition to inclusion of salaries, wages, or benefits payable to employees of
the city as financing the cost of a local improvement, or any part thereof, the
city shall establish a record keeping system to track the actual work done or
services performed by each employee in connection with a local improvement.
         (b)   Financing costs that are incurred after the levy of a final
assessment may be included in the final assessment based on the city’s
reasonable estimate of the financing cost.
      LOCAL IMPROVEMENT. A capital construction project, or part of a capital
construction project, undertaken by the city pursuant to the procedure of
forming local assessments on properties benefitted, in whole or in part, from
the local improvement:
         (a)   Which provides a special benefit only to specific properties or
rectifies a problem caused by specific properties;
         (b)   The cost of which are assessed against those properties in a
single assessment upon the completion of the project;
         (c)   For which the payment of the assessment plus the appropriate
interest may be spread over a period of at least ten years by the property
owner;
         (d)   The total of all assessments for a local improvement shall not
exceed the actual cost incurred by the city in design, constructing, and
financing the project; and/or
         (e)   The status of capital construction project as a local
improvement is not impacted by the accrual of a general benefit to properties
located outside an improvement district as opposed to the specific benefit of
properties located within an improvement district.
      LOT. Lot, block, or parcel of land.
      MANAGER. The City Administrator of the City of Glendale or
Administrator’s designee.
      OWNER. The owner of the title to real property, or the contract purchaser
of real property of record, as shown on the last available complete assessment
roll in the office of the Douglas County Assessor.
      PROPERTY BENEFITTED. All property specifically benefitted by a local
improvement district. The relative extent of the benefit is to be determined by
any just and reasonable method of apportionment of all or a portion the total
cost of the improvement between properties determined to be specifically
benefitted.
      RECORDER. The Recorder, Clerk, or other person or officer of the City of
Glendale serving as a clerk of the city or performing clerical work of the
city, or other official or employee as the governing body of the city shall
designate to act as RECORDER.
      SINGLE ASSESSMENT. The complete assessment process, including pre-
assessment, assessment, or reassessment, for any authorized local improvement
which provides the procedure to be followed in making local assessments for
benefits from a local improvement upon which have been benefitted by all or
part of the improvement.
      SPECIAL BENEFIT ONLY TO SPECIFIC PROPERTIES. Shall have the same meaning
as SPECIAL AND PECULIAR BENEFIT as that term is used in ORS 223.389.
      STRUCTURE. Any temporary or permanent building or improvement to real
property of any kind, which is constructed on or attached to real property,
whether above or beneath the surface.
      TREASURER. The city official, however designated, charged by law with the
responsibility for acting as custodian of and investment officer for the public
moneys of the city.
      TRUE CASH VALUE. In determining TRUE CASH VALUE of taxable property for
the purpose of calculating the amount of indebtedness which may be incurred by
the state or local government under State Constitution or laws of the state,
the real market value as defined in § 11b(2)(a), Article XI, of the State
Constitution, may be used if and to the extent that the real market value does
not exceed the TRUE CASH VALUE.
   (B)   In levying, collecting, and enforcing assessments for local
improvement, the following shall apply:
      (1)   Real property may be described by giving the subdivision according
to the United States survey when coincident with the boundaries thereof, or by
lots, blocks, and addition names, or by giving the boundaries thereof by metes
and bounds, or by reference to the book and page of any public record of the
county where the description may be found, or by designation of tax lot number
referring to a record kept by the Assessor of descriptions of real properties
of the county, which record shall constitute a public record, or in the manner
as to cause the description to be capable of being made certain. Initial
letters, abbreviations, figures, fractions, and exponents, to designate the
township, range, section, or part of a section, or the number of any lot or
block or part thereof, or any distance, course bearing, or direction, may be
employed in any description of real property.
      (2)   If the owner of any land is unknown, the land may be assessed as
unknown owner or unknown owners. If the property is correctly described, no
final assessment shall be invalidated by a mistake in the name of the owner of
the real property assessed or by the omission of the name of the owner or the
entry of a name other than that of the true owner. Where the name of the owner,
or the owner of record, of any parcel of real property is given, the final
assessment shall not be held invalidated on account of any error or
irregularity in the description if the description would be sufficient in a
deed of conveyance from the owner, or is so that, in a suit to enforce a
contract to convey, employing the description a court of equity would hold it
to be good and sufficient.
      (3)   Any description of real property which conforms substantially to
the requirements of this section shall be as sufficient description in all
proceedings of assessment relating or leading to a final assessment for a local
improvement foreclosure and sale of delinquent assessments, and in any other
proceeding related to or connected with levying, collecting, and enforcing
final assessments for special benefits to the property.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
FORMATION; ASSESSMENT
§ 150.15 PETITION FOR FORMATION.
   (A)   The formation of a local improvement district may be initiated by
petition submitted to the City Recorder. All petitions must be submitted on
forms provided by the city.
   (B)   Prior to circulating a petition, a chief petitioner must be identified
on forms provided by the city.
   (C)   The chief petitioner shall agree to pay a fee of $640, or the other
amount and schedule that the city may, from time to time, set by resolution for
advance financed public improvements.
   (D)   All plans and specifications, as outlined in §
150.16, shall be filed with the City Recorder before the circulation of the
petition.
   (E)   All plans and specifications filed with the City Recorder must be
attached to the petition prior to circulation and made available for public
viewing at the City Hall during all regular business hours.
   (F)   After a petition has been circulated and submitted to the City
Recorder, the city shall have 90 days to complete the activities outlined in §§
150.17 and
150.18.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.16 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall determine to proceed, upon its own motion
or upon the petition of the owners equal to one-half of the property that
benefits specifically from the improvement, to make any street, sewer,
sidewalk, city water line, or other public improvement to be paid for in whole
or in part by a special assessment according to the benefits, then the Council
shall, by motion, direct city staff to make a report for the project.
   (B)   Unless the Council shall direct otherwise, the report shall contain
the following matters:
      (1)   A description of the local improvement proposed;
      (2)   Preliminary plans and outlined specifications for the local
improvement;
      (3)   A description of the boundaries of the proposed local improvement
district;
      (4)   A just and reasonable method for apportioning the actual cost of
the local improvement to the properties benefitted;
      (5)   A list of the properties benefitted for the local improvement,
including the name of the owner of each property benefitted, and the address of
the owners; the assessed valuation of each property adjusted in accordance with
state law; and a statement of the amount of outstanding assessments against any
property proposed to be assessed for the improvement;
      (6)   The estimated actual cost of the local improvement;
      (7)   The estimated proportionate actual cost of the local improvement to
be assessed to each benefitted property;
      (8)   The estimated portion of the actual cost of the improvement to be
borne by city funds, if any; and
      (9)   This report shall be filed with the office of the Recorder when
completed and available for public inspection during all regular business
hours.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.17 ASSESSING.
   The Council shall consider the following in assessing cost of the local
improvement:
   (A)   The use of any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of
the local improvement district boundaries consistent with the benefits derived,
the State Constitution, and state law;
   (B)   The use of any method of apportioning the actual cost among the
properties to be specifically benefitted which is just and reasonable and
consistent with the State Constitution and the state laws;
   (C)   Payment by the city of all or any portion of the actual cost or
estimated actual cost of any improvement. If, in the opinion of the Council,
there is a general public benefit which will result from the public
improvement, or when the Council otherwise believes it to be just and
reasonable, the city may contribute funds towards the local improvement; and
   (D)   Other available means of financing the estimated actual cost of the
local improvement, including federal or state grants-in-aid, sewer services or
other types of services or charges, revenue bonds, general obligation bonds, or
other legal means of finance. In the event any of the other means of finance
are used, the Council may, in its discretion, levy assessments for local
improvement districts hereunder according to benefits to cover any part of the
cost, subject to the constraints of the State Constitution and state laws, of
the local improvement not covered by the means.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.18 RESOLUTION.
   (A)   After the staff report has been filed with the city, and after the
Council has examined the report and found the report to be satisfactory, and
the estimated cost thereof to be reasonable and just, and after having found
the boundaries of the improvements district to be properly determined, the
Council may, by resolution, propose to make the improvement, and create a local
improvement district. Unless those persons representing at least two-thirds of
the proposed estimated assessment within the local improvement district file
with the City Recorder a written objection and remonstrance against the
proposed local improvement district prior to the public hearing or within seven
days following the public hearing, the Council may proceed to order the
formation of the local improvement district as proposed in the plans and
specifications previously adopted or as may be amended by the Council following
the hearing. Any objection or remonstrance shall state the grounds for the
objections or remonstrance.
   (B)   The resolution shall state:
      (1)   The boundaries of the local improvement district;
      (2)   The proposed method of apportioning the estimated actual cost
(estimated assessments) of the local improvement among the property owners;
      (3)   The portion of the estimated actual cost, if any, which the city
shall pay;
      (4)   The portion of the estimated actual cost (estimated assessment)
which are assessed to the property owners shall be a charge and a lien upon the
properties benefitted;
      (5)   The time and the place of the public hearing to consider public
comments and objections to the proposed local improvement district; and
      (6)   Direct the Recorder to provide notice of the hearing as required by
state law which shall state that the Council shall hear and consider objections
or remonstrances to the proposed improvement by any parties aggrieved thereby.
The notice shall state that the Council, by resolution, has proposed to create
a local improvement district and include the following:
         “Unless those persons representing at least       of the proposed
estimated assessment within the said local improvement district file with the
City Recorder a written objection and remonstrance against such proposed local
improvement district prior to the public hearing or within seven days following
the public hearing, the Council may proceed to order the formation of the local
improvement district as proposed in the plans and specifications previously
adopted or as may be amended by the Council following the hearing. Any such
objection or remonstrance shall state the grounds for such objections or
remonstrance.”
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.19 NOTICES.
   (A)   The Recorder shall also notify the owner of each lot proposed to be
assessed by registered or certified mail, or by personal delivery, of the
amount of the estimated assessment proposed for that property, the date by
which time objections shall be filed with the Recorder, and that any objection
shall state the grounds for the objection. Notices shall be mailed no less than
ten days prior to the date set for the public hearing.
   (B)   Whenever a notice is required to be sent to the owner or a lot
affected by a proposed assessment, the notice shall be addressed to the owner
of his or her agent. If the address of the owner or his or her agent is unknown
to the Recorder, the Recorder shall mail the notice addressed to the owner or
his or her agent at the city where the property is located. Any mistake, error,
omission, or failure with respect to the mailing shall not be jurisdictional or
invalidate the assessment proceedings, but there shall be no foreclosure or
legal action to collect until notice has been given by personal service upon
the property owner, or, if personal service cannot be had, then by publication
once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.20 PREVENTION BY REMONSTRANCES.
   If no later than seven days following the public hearing those persons
representing two-thirds or more of the proposed assessment within the proposed
local improvement district file with the Recorder a written objection or
remonstrance against the proposed improvement, the remonstrance shall be a bar
to any further proceeding in the making of the improvement for the period of
six months.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.21 ORDINANCE CREATING LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. After the public hearing and the time for filing
remonstrances, if the local improvement district has not been objected to by
those persons representing two-thirds of the proposed assessment, the Council
may provide for the creation of the local improvement district by ordinance.
This ordinance shall describe the improvement(s) to be made and the boundary of
the local improvement district. The ordinance shall also provide that the
estimated assessments against the properties benefitted shall be charges and
liens against the property. The city may enforce collection of the assessments
as provided by state law.
   (B)   Adoption process. In creating the local improvement ordinance, the
Council shall consider the objections or remonstrances made and the reasons
stated for them. The Council may adopt, correct, modify, or revise the proposed
assessment or estimated assessments to be charged against each lot within the
district, according to the special and peculiar benefits accruing thereto from
the improvement and shall by ordinance spread the assessments. The estimated
assessment lien shall continue until the time the estimated assessment become a
final assessment.
   (C)   Plans. The ordinance shall also direct staff to have detailed plans
and specifications of the local improvement prepared and that, when
appropriate, the city solicit bids for construction of the local improvement
pursuant to Ord. 333-99.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.22 ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. If the City Council determines that the local improvement
district shall be created, the Council shall provide for the assessment or
estimated assessment of the benefitted properties, and for the apportionment of
the assessment or estimated assessment to the individual lots within the local
improvement district by ordinance by one of the following:
      (1)   Actual cost of the local improvement; or
      (2)   The estimated actual cost of the local improvement.
   (B)   Notice. The Recorder shall prepare the assessment or the estimated
assessment to the respective lots within the assessment district and file it
with the appropriate city office. Notice of the assessment or estimated
assessment shall be mailed or personally delivered to the owner of each lot
proposed to be assessed, which notice shall state the amount of the assessment
or the estimated assessment proposed on that property and shall fix a date by
which time objections and the grounds for objections shall be filed with the
Recorder. Any objection shall state the grounds thereof. The City Council shall
consider the objections and may adopt, correct, modify, or revise the proposed
assessments and shall determine the amount of the assessment to be charged
against each lot within the district, according to the special and peculiar
benefits accruing thereto from the improvement, and shall by ordinance spread
the assessments.
   (C)   Actual cost. In determining the assessment or the estimated
assessments for the local improvement, the Council shall use the actual cost as
defined in §
150.02.
   (D)   Lien. The assessment ordinance shall provide the assessments or
estimated assessments against the benefitted properties shall be a lien against
the assessed properties and that the city may enforce collection of the
assessment as provided by state law.
   (E)   Estimated cost. If the initial assessment has been made on the basis
of estimated actual cost, and upon the completion of work the cost is found to
be greater or less than the estimated cost, the Council shall make an
assessment for the corrected actual cost. Proposed assessments upon the
respective lots within the assessment district for the proportionate share of
the change shall be made; and notices shall be sent; opportunity for objection
shall be given; the objections shall be considered; and determination of the
assessment against each particular lot, block, or parcel of land shall be made
as in the case of the estimated assessment; and the assessment spread by
ordinance.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.23 LIEN RECORDING; PAYMENTS OVER TIME OR BY CASH.
   (A)   If the city has proceeded to cause any local improvement to be
constructed or made within the corporate limits of the city, and has determined
the final assessment for the local improvement against the property benefitted
thereby or liable therefor, according to applicable law, the city shall cause
notice of the final assessment to be published. The notice shall identify the
local improvement for which the assessment is to be made, each lot to be
assessed and the final assessment for each lot. In addition, the notice shall
state that the owner of any property to be assessed shall have the right to
make application to the city for payment of the final assessment in
installments as provided in this chapter. A copy of the notice shall be mailed
or personally delivered to the owner of each lot to be assessed.
   (B)   The owner of any property to be assessed, at any time within ten days
after notice of final or estimated assessment is first published, may file with
the Recorder a written application to pay:
      (1)   The whole of the final or estimated assessment installments; or
      (2)   If part of the final estimate has been paid, the unpaid balance of
the final assessment in installments.
   (C)   At the option of the city, an installment application may be filed
after the notice of the final assessment has been published.
      (1)   The installment application shall state that the applicant does
thereby waive all irregularities or defects, jurisdictional or otherwise, in
the proceedings to cause the local improvement district for which the final
assessment is levied and in apportionment of the actual cost of the local
improvement.
      (2)   The application shall provide that the applicant agrees to pay the
final or established assessment over a period not less than ten years nor more
than 30 years and according to the terms as the city may provide. The city may
provide that the owner of the assessed property may elect to have the final
assessment payable over a period of less than ten years and according to the
terms as the city may provide.
      (3)   The application shall also provide that the applicant acknowledges
and agrees to pay interest at the rate provided by the city on all unpaid
assessments, together with the amount, determined by the city, sufficient to
pay a proportionate part of the cost of administering the bond assessment
program and in issuing the bonds authorized under ORS 223.235, including, but
not limited to, legal, printing, and consultants fees.
      (4)   The application shall also contain a statement, by lots or blocks,
or other convenient description, of the property of the applicant assessed for
the improvement.
   (D)   In connection with the final assessments for any local improvement,
the city shall establish a procedure by which an owner of any property to be
assessed may irrevocably elect in writing to have the final or estimated
assessment levied for a number of years less than ten, which shall be
determined by the city. The written election shall:
      (1)   Be signed by the owner or a duly authorized representative of the
owner;
      (2)   Contain a description of the assessed property and the local
improvement for which the assessment is being made; and
      (3)   Contain a statement by the owner acknowledging that the improvement
for the local improvement as described in this chapter, that the payment of
final assessment against the properties benefitted by the local improvement
plus interest may be spread over at least ten years and that, notwithstanding
any provision of law, the owner consents to make payments over a period of less
than ten years and to have the assessment levied on the benefitted property
accordingly.
   (E)   The election of this section shall be recorded in the lien docket for
the local improvement to which the assessment relates. From and after the time
at which the written election is so recorded, it shall be valid and binding
upon all subsequent owners of the property thereof.
   (F)   When the lien docket is made up, as provided in ORS 223.230, as to the
final assessments for any local improvement, the city shall by ordinance or
resolution authorize the issue of its bonds pursuant to the applicable
provisions of ORS Chapter 287A.
   (G)   The bond authorized to be issued under this section shall be issued in
an amount equal to the unpaid balance of all final assessments for the related
local improvements including the amounts necessary to fund any debt service
reserve and to pay any other financing cost associated with the bonds.
   (H)   If the question of the issuance of the specific bonds has been
approved by the electors of the city and the bonds are issued as general
obligation bonds, the city shall each year assess, levy, and collect a tax on
all taxable property within its boundaries. The amount of the tax shall be
sufficient to pay all principle of and interest on the bonds that are due and
payable in that year and to replenish any debt service reserves required for
the bonds. In computing the amount of taxes to impose, the city shall deduct
from the total amount otherwise required the amount of final installment
payments which are pledged to the payment of the bonds and which are due and
payable in that year, and shall add to this net amount the amount of reasonably
anticipated delinquencies in the payments of the installments or the taxes.
      (1)   The taxes shall be levied in each year and returned to the county
officer whose duty it is to emend the tax role within the time and manner
provided in ORS 310.060.
      (2)   The taxes shall become payable at the same time and be collected by
the officer who collects county taxes and shall be turned over to the city
according to law.
      (3)   The county officer whose duty it is to extend the county levy shall
extend the levy of the city in the same manner as city taxes are extended.
Property shall be subject to sale for nonpayment of the taxes levied by the
city in like manner and with like effect as in the case of county and state
taxes.
   (I)   If the question of the issuance of the specific bonds has not been
approved by the electors of the city and the bonds are issued as limited tax
obligation bonds, the city may, subject only to the limitations of § 11b(1),
Article XI, of the State Constitution, calculate, assess, levy, and collect tax
on all taxable property within its boundaries in the manner provided in this
chapter. The amount of the tax shall be sufficient to pay all principal of and
interest on the bonds which is due and payable in that year and to replenish
any debt service reserves required for the bonds, provided that if the bonds
are issued as limited tax obligation bonds the amount of the tax shall not
exceed the amount permitted under § 11b(1), Article XI, of the State
Constitution.
   (J)   All bonds issued pursuant to this section, including general
obligation bonds, shall be secured by and be payable from the installments of
final assessment with respect to which the bonds were issued.
      (1)   In the ordinance or resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds,
the city may:
         (a)   Provide that all installments of final assessments be levied
with respect to two or more local improvements shall secure a single issue
bonds; and
         (b)   Reserve the right to pledge, as security for any bonds
thereafter issued pursuant to this section, any installments of final
assessments previously pledged as security for other bonds issued pursuant to
this section.
      (2)   All bonds shall be secured by a lien on the installments of final
assessments with respect to which they were issued. The lien shall be valid,
binding, and fully perfected from the date of issuance of the bonds. The
installments of the final assessments shall be immediately subject to the lien
without the physical delivery thereof, the filing of any notice, or any further
act. The lien shall be valid, binding, and fully perfected against all persons
having claims of any kind against the governmental unit or the property
assessed whether in tort, contract, or otherwise, and irrespective of whether
the persons have notice of lien.
   (K)   As additional security for any bonds issued under this section,
including general obligation bonds, the city may pledge or mortgage, or grant
security interests in, its revenues, assets, and properties, and otherwise
secure and enter into covenants with respect to the bonds, as provided in state
law.
   (L)   The city shall have the power, at any time and from time to time after
the undertaking of a local improvement has been authorized, to borrow money and
issue and sell notes for the purpose of providing interim financing for the
actual cost of the improvement.
      (1)   Notes authorized under this division (L) may be issued in a single
series for the purpose of providing interim financing for two or more local
improvements.
      (2)   Notes authorized under this division (L) shall mature not later
than one year after the date upon which the city expects to issue bonds for the
purpose of providing permanent financing with respect to installment payments
of the final assessments for the local improvements.
      (3)   Any notes authorized under this section may be refunded from time
to time by the issuance of additional notes or out of the proceeds of bonds
issued pursuant to this section. The notes may be made payable from the
proceeds of any bonds to be issued under this section to provide permanent
financing from any other sources from which bonds are payable.
      (4)   The city may pledge the payment of bonds authorized to be issued
under this section with respect to the local improvements for which the notes
provide interim financing.
   (M)   The city may create, within the Bancroft Bond Redemption Fund
maintained by the city as required by ORS 223.285, separate accounts for
separate issues of bonds or notes issued as provided in ORS 223.235, and may
pledge any amounts deposited in the separate accounts to specific issues of
bonds or notes without pledging the amounts to any other issues of the bonds or
notes.
   (N)   The installments due and payable under an assessment contract shall be
due and payable periodically as the city shall determine but shall not be due
and payable over a term in excess of 30 years. Each installment is due and
payable with interest as described under division (P) below.
   (O)   The installments and interest are payable to the city by the property
owner whose application to pay the cost of the local improvement by
installments has been provided in ORS 223.210.
   (P)   The amount of each installment (percentage of the total final
assessment) shall be determined by the city and shall be as appears by bond
lien docket described in ORS 223.230. Each installment shall be due and payable
with the accrued and unpaid interest on the unpaid balance of the final
assessment amount at the rate per annum determined by the city under ORS
223.215.
   (Q)   The first payment shall be due and payable on the date that the city
shall determine, and subsequent payments shall be due and payable on subsequent
periodic dates thereafter as shall have been determined by the city.
   (R)   If the owner neglects or refuses to pay installments under ORS 223.265
as they become due and payable for a period of one year, then the city may, by
reason of the neglect or refusal to pay the installments, and while the neglect
and refusal to pay continues, pass a resolution:
      (1)   Giving the name of the owner in default in the payment sum due;
      (2)   Stating the sum due either in principal or interest, or both, and
any unpaid late payment penalties or charges;
      (3)   Containing a description of the property upon the sums are owing;
and
      (4)   Declaring the whole sum, both principal and interest, due and
payable at once.
   (S)   The city may then proceed at once to collect all unpaid installments
and to enforce collection thereof with all unpaid late payment penalties,
attorney’s fees, and administrative charges added thereto, in the same manner
as street and sewer assessments are collected in a manner provided in ORS
Chapter 223.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.24 ERRORS IN ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS.
   Claimed errors in the calculation of the final assessment shall be called to
the attention of the City Recorder or the City Manager prior to any payment on
account. The City Recorder shall check the calculation. If an error has been
made, the Council shall amend the final assessment ordinance to correct the
error. Upon the enactment of the amendment by the Council, the Recorder shall
make the necessary correction in the lien docket and shall send by registered
or certified mail to the owner a corrected notice of the assessment.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
REASSESSMENT; MISCELLANEOUS
§ 150.35 AUTHORITY TO MAKE REASSESSMENT.
   Whenever all or part of any assessment for improvements is declared void or
set aside for any reason, or its enforcement refused, by any court for reason
of jurisdictional or other defects in procedure, whether directly or by virtue
of any court decision, or when the Council is in doubt as to the validity of
all or part of any assessment by reason of the defects in procedure, the
Council may, by ordinance, make a new assessment or reassessment with respect
to all or part of the original assessment upon the lots which have been
benefitted by all or part of the improvement to the extent of their respective
and proportionate shares of the full value of the benefit.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.36 BASIS FOR AMOUNT AND METHOD OF REASSESSMENT.
   The reassessment shall be based upon the special and specific benefit of the
improvement to the respective lots at the time of the original making of the
improvement. The amount of the reassessment shall not be limited to the amount
of the original assessment but the original property included in the district
shall remain the same, except property on which the original assessment was
paid in full shall not be included in the reassessment. Interest from the date
of delinquency of the original’s assessment may be added by the Council to the
reassessment in cases where property was included in the original assessment,
but the interest shall not apply to any portion of the reassessment that exceed
the amount of the original assessment. The reassessment shall be made in an
equitable manner as nearly as may be in accordance with the law in force at the
time the improvement was made, but the Council may adopt a different plan of
apportioning benefits or exclude portions of the district when in its judgment
it is essential to secure an equitable assessment. Credit shall be allowed on
the new assessment for all payments made on the original assessment.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.37 EFFECT OF REASSESSMENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   The reassessment shall become a charge upon the property upon which it is
laid notwithstanding the omission, failure, or neglect of any officer, body, or
person to comply with the provisions of the Charter or law connected with or
relating to the improvement and original assessment, or any previous
reassessment. Although the proceedings of the Council or the acts of any
officer, contractor, or other person connected with the improvement or
assessment may have been irregular or defective, whether the irregularity or
defect was jurisdictional or otherwise, the reassessment shall not be made in
case of any improvement wherein a remonstrance sufficient in law to defeat it
has been duly filed prior to the making of the improvement.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.38 COUNCIL RESOLUTION TO REASSESS.
   The process required by this chapter, or other law for making the original
assessment, is not required with reference to the making of a reassessment. The
reassessment shall be initiated by adoption of a resolution designating the
improvement as to which a reassessment is contemplated, describing the
boundaries of the district that the Council contemplates for the reassessment
and directing the Recorder or other person to prepare a proposed reassessment
upon the property included within the district. After passage of the
resolution, the Recorder or other person shall prepare the proposed
reassessment and file it in the office of the Recorder.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.39 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF REASSESSMENT; CONTENTS.
   After the proposed reassessment is filed in the office of Recorder, the
Recorder shall give notice thereof by not less than four successive
publications in a newspaper published in the city and, if there is no newspaper
published in the city, in a newspaper to be designated by the Council. The
notice shall show that the proposed reassessment is on file in the office of
the Recorder, giving the date of the passage of the resolution authorizing it,
the boundaries of the district or a statement of the property affected by the
proposed reassessment, and specifying the time and the place where the Council
will hear and consider objections to the proposed reassessment by any parties
aggrieved thereby.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.40 PERSONAL NOTICE TO EACH OWNER; RIGHT TO FILE OBJECTIONS.
   The Recorder shall, within five days after the first date of publication of
the notice, mail or personally deliver to the owner of each lot affected by the
proposed reassessment, or to the agent of the owner, a notice of the proposed
reassessment, stating the matters set out in the printed notice and also the
amount proposed to be charged against the lot. If the address of the owner or
owner’s agent is unknown to the Recorder, the Recorder shall mail the notice
addressed to the owner or the owner’s agent at the city where the property is
located. Any mistake, error, omission, or failure with respect to the mailing
shall not be jurisdictional or invalidate the reassessment proceedings. The
owners of any property included in the description of the printed notice, or
any person having an interest in that property, may, within ten days from the
day of last insertion of the printed notice, file in writing with the Recorder
objections against the proposed reassessment.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.41 HEARING ON OBJECTIONS; REVISION OF REASSESSMENT.
   (A)   (1)   At all times and places appointed in the notice, the Council
shall hear and determine all objections filed under §
150.40.
      (2)   The Council may adjourn the hearing from time to time, and correct,
modify, or revise the proposed reassessment or set it aside and order the
making of a new proposed reassessment.
      (3)   However, if the proposed reassessment is corrected or revised so as
to increase the proposed amount to be charged against any property, the
reassessment shall not be made until after a new notice has been given as
stated in §
150.40 to the owners of the property against which the amount of the assessment
is proposed to be thus increased.
   (B)   (1)   The publication of the notice may be for not less than two
successive inserts in a newspaper as provided in §
150.39, and the time when actions may be taken thereon may be not less than
five days after the date of the last insertion.
      (2)   If the proposed reassessment is set aside and a new apportionment
ordered, notice shall be given of the new apportionment in the manner stated in
§§
150.39 and
150.40; and action taken thereon as provided in §
150.40 and this section.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.42 REASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   When the Council has determined what is in its judgment is a fair, just, and
reasonable reassessment, it shall pass as an ordinance setting out and making
the reassessment. The reassessment so made shall be deemed to be regular,
correct, valid, and just, except as it may be modified under §§
150.44 and
150.45.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.43 LIEN DOCKET ENTRY; CREDITING PRIOR PAYMENTS.
   When the reassessment is duly made it shall be entered in the city lien
docket. All provisions for bonding and paying by installments shall be
applicable, and the city liens shall be enforced and collected in the manner
provided for collection of liens for an original improvement. All sums paid
upon the former assessment or any previous reassessment shall be credited to
the property on account of which it was paid and as of the date of payment.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.44 RIGHT OF PURCHASER AT SALE UNDER PRIOR ASSESSMENT.
   In cases where the sale was made under the original assessment or any
previous reassessment, with reference to the improvement, and the property was
not redeemed from the sale, the purchaser at the sale is subrogated to the
rights of the city with reference to the property upon the reassessment if the
purchaser waives all penalties and interest, except the interest as may be
provided for in the reassessment, and delivers up for cancellation any
certificate or other evidence of sale. If a deed was issued at the sale, the
grantee therein, his or her heirs, executors, administrators, successors, or
assigns, shall execute a deed of resale and quitclaim of all right, title, and
interest in the property under the sale to owner of the property and deliver
the deed to the Recorder, so that the owner’s title may be cleared of the sale.
The Recorder shall now act as escrow holder of the certificate or other
evidence of sale and of the deed pending completion of the reassessment. If the
reassessment is not completed, the evidence of sale and the deed shall be
returned to the person delivering it. If the reassessment is completed, the
certificate or other evidence of sale shall be canceled and placed on file in
the office of City Recorder and the deed shall be delivered to the owner of the
property specified therein. If any purchaser, their heirs, executors,
administrators, successors or assigns fails to comply with this section, they
are not entitled to subrogation. In any event, the amount of the subrogation
shall not exceed the amount which as been paid to the city on the sale,
together with interest at the rate established under this chapter from the date
of sale until the date of payment. This amount is to be paid by the city to the
purchaser, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, or assigns if
and when the city collects the amount of the reassessment against the property.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.45 REVIEW OF REASSESSMENT.
   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of §§
150.37 through
150.47, owners of any property against which a reassessment for local
improvements has been imposed may seek a review thereof under the provisions of
state law.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.46 ADDITIONAL REASSESSMENT PROCEDURE; TIME LIMITATION.
   No proceeding for making a reassessment shall be instituted after 20 years
from the date when the first assessment was entered in to the lien docket.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.47 MUNICIPAL BONDS ACCEPTED AS PAYMENT FOR ASSESSMENT LIENS.
   General obligation bonds or interest coupons attached, or both, of the city
are authorized for payments of all or any part of local improvement district
liens, interest, or penalties of or payable to the city.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.48 ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY BENEFITTED BY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever all or any part of the cost of public improvements is to be
assessed as the property benefitted thereby, benefitted property owned by the
city, county, school district, state, and any political subdivision thereof
shall be assessed in the same manner as private property and the amount of the
assessment shall be paid by the city, school district, county, or state, as the
case may be, provided that the cost of the improvements are, in any given case
of the type that may be bonded under this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of property owned by the state, the amount of the
assessment shall be certified by the City Treasurer and filed with the
Executive Department as a claim for reference to the Legislative Assembly in
the manner provided by state law unless funds for the payment of the assessment
have otherwise been provided by law.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.49 PUBLIC ROADS INCLUDED IN SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT ON
BENEFITTED PROPERTY.
   The city, in addition to powers granted by law or Charter, may include
sidewalk improvement district within the city all county roads or state
highways or portions thereof within the improvement district. It may cause to
be build on the county roads or state highways or portions thereof within the
improvement district, sidewalks for pedestrian travel, and may assess the cost
thereof upon the property benefitted thereby, in the manner provided by this
chapter.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.50 PARKING AND CITY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city may finance parking facilities by any one or any combination of the
following methods:
   (A)   General obligation bonds within the legal debt limitations, or revenue
bonds payable primarily or solely out of revenue from parking facilities in the
amounts, at the rate of interest, and upon the conditions as may be prescribed
by the legal authority of the city;
   (B)   Special or benefitted assessments equal to the actual cost of the
parking facilities, or a portion thereof, the assessment to be levied against
property benefitted in proportion to the benefit derived, the amount of the
assessment to be determined in accordance with special assessment practices for
local improvements as now or hereafter prescribed by this chapter or Charter
provisions of the city;
   (C)   Parking fees, special charges, or other revenue derived from the use
of off-street parking facilities by motorist, lessees, concessionaires,
commercial enterprises, and others;
   (D)   General fund appropriations;
   (E)   Parking meter revenue;
   (F)   General property taxes, or gift, bequest, devise, grant, or otherwise;
and/or
   (G)   A reasonable annual fee on the privilege of occupying real property
within the city or a district of the city to carry on a business, occupation,
professional trade. In levying the fee, the city shall take into consideration
the unmet off-street parking requirements of the business. The proceeds of the
fee, less refunds and cost of collection, shall be used solely for the purposes
of ORS 223.805 to 223.845. The fee is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
other tax, assessment, or fee required by state or local law or ordinance.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.51 ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for improvements undertaken hereunder at any time prior to the
final consummation of the proceedings. If liens have been assessed upon any
property prior to the abandonment, any amount of the lien in excess of the
benefit conferred on the property shall be canceled, and any excess payments
made thereon shall be refunded to the payor, their assign, or legal
representative.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.52 CURATIVE PROVISION.
   No improvement assessment shall be invalid by reason if it appears that the
assessment as made, insofar as it affects the person complaining, is unfair,
unjust, and contrary to law, and the City Council shall have the power and
authority to remedy and correct all the matters by suitable actions and
proceedings.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.53 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SANITARY AND STORM SEWERS.
   When the Council finds it necessary for the public health, welfare, and
safety to construct sanitary sewer or storm sewer, or both, the city may, to
the extent allowed by the State Constitution and state laws, proceed to form an
improvement district and construct the improvements as provided in this
chapter. Property owners shall have no right of remonstrance when a sewer
system is constructed under this section. Those parts of this chapter which are
in conflict with this section shall not apply.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 150.54 APPORTIONMENT OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall apportion a local improvement district assessment imposed
upon a single tract or parcel of real property among all the parcels formed
from a subsequent partition or other division of that tract or parcel provided
that the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The subsequent partition or division is in accordance with ORS 92.010
to 92.160 and is consistent with all applicable comprehensive plans as
acknowledged by the State Land Conservation and Development Commission;
   (B)   The proportionate distribution of the local improvement district
assessment authorizes may be made whenever the local improvement district
assessment remains wholly or partially unpaid, and full payment or installment
payment is not due;
   (C)   The city has been requested to make the local improvement district
assessment by an owner, mortgage, or lien holder of a parcel or real property
that was formed from the partition or other division of the larger tract of
real property against which the local improvement district was originally
levied:
      (1)   The city shall not apportion the local improvement district
assessment unless the applicant files a true copy of the deed, mortgage, or
instrument evidencing the applicant’s ownership or other interest in the
parcel, or, the applicant supplies the city with the recording data necessary
for the city to find the deed, mortgage, or other instrument evidencing the
applicant’s ownership or other interest in the parcel in the County Deed
Records; and
      (2)   Any and all local improvement district assessments made by the city
pursuant to this chapter shall be in the form of an ordinance of the city and
shall contain the following information at a minimum:
         (a)   The description of each parcel of real property affected by the
apportionment;
         (b)   The amount of the assessment to be levied against each parcel;
and
         (c)   The owner of the parcel.
   (D)   A copy of the ordinance apportioning a local improvement district
assessment shall be filed with the City Recorder who shall make the necessary
changes or entries in the city’s lien docket; and
   (E)   Each applicant for apportionment of an LID assessment shall pay a fee
as established by the city before the city will begin the local improvement
district assessment apportionment process.
(Ord. 333-99, passed 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 151: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Nuisance declared
   
151.03   Inspections
   
151.04   Right of entry
   
151.05   Dangerous building; conditions
   
151.06   Commencement of proceedings
   
151.07   Notice and order of dangerous building
   
151.08   Notice and order to vacate
   
151.09   Appeals
   
151.10   Compliance
   
151.11   Costs of abatement
   
151.12   Summary abatement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODES ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Manager or his or her designee; the Fire
Chief or other public safety official charged with fire protection within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Glendale.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof which endangers life,
health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants.
   FINAL ORDER. Any notice and order of dangerous building, order to vacate, or
order of abatement which is not timely appealed.
   OWNER. The person identified as the owner of record on the most recent tax
rolls of the County Assessor’s office.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined by the Codes
Enforcement Officer to be dangerous as defined in this code are hereby declared
to be dangerous buildings and public nuisances, which shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 INSPECTIONS.
   The Codes Enforcement Officer may make inspections and undertake all actions
required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   When the Codes Enforcement Officer has reasonable cause to believe
there exists in a building a condition which makes the building unsafe,
dangerous, or hazardous, the Codes Enforcement Officer may enter the building
at reasonable times to conduct inspections.
   (B)   (a)   If the building is occupied, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall
first present credentials and request entry.
      (b)   If the building is unoccupied, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control of the building and request entry.
      (c)   If entry is refused in either case, the Codes Enforcement Officer
shall obtain an administrative search warrant to secure entry.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.05 DANGEROUS BUILDING; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A building with any of the following conditions or defects which
endangers the life, health, property, or safety of the public or its occupants
may be declared a dangerous building by the Codes Enforcement Officer, and
subject to abatement.
   (B)   (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of exit
which is not of sufficient width or size or is not arranged so as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Any walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or other
means of exit which is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Any stress in materials, members, or portion thereof, due to all
dead and live loads which is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed by the building codes of the state for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (4)   Any building or portion thereof which has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause to an extent that the structural
strength or stability is materially less than it was before the event and is
less than the minimum requirements of the building code of the state for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (5)   Any portion or member or appurtenance of a building or portion
thereof which is likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to
collapse and injure persons or damage property;
      (6)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof which has insufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place to be capable
of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified by the building
codes of the state for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (7)   Any portion of a building that has warped, buckled, or settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to wind or earthquake than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
      (8)   Any building or portion thereof, which, because of dilapidation;
deterioration; decay; faulty construction; removal, movement, or instability of
any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting the building;
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or any other cause, is
likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Any building or any portion thereof, which, for any reason, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Any building, or any portion thereof, where any exterior walls or
other vertical structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that
a plumb line passing through the center of gravity of the center of the wall or
structural member does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Any building, exclusive of the foundation, which shows 33% or more
damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50% damage or
deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside walls or
coverings;
      (12)   Any building which has been so damaged by fire, wind, earthquake,
or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to become an
attractive nuisance to children, a harbor for vagrants, or a resort for
committing unlawful acts;
      (13)   Any building which has been constructed, exists, or is maintained
in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to the
building or structure provided by the building regulations of the state, as
specified in the uniform or specialty codes, or of any ordinance of the city
relating to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Any building which, whether or not erected in accordance with all
applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting part, member, or
portion less than 50%, or has in any supporting part, member, or portion less
than 66%, of the strength, fire-resistant qualities or characteristics, or
weather resistant qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a
newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy in the same
location;
      (15)   Any building, used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes,
which, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty
construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or sanitation facilities or
otherwise, is determined by the Codes Enforcement Officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that is likely to cause sickness
or disease;
      (16)   Any building, which, because of obsolescence, dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire
resistant construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections or heating
apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Codes Enforcement Officer to be
a fire hazard;
      (17)   Any portion of a building which remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building, or any building which is abandoned
for a period in excess of six months so as to create an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public;
      (18)   Any building that, because of lack of proper repair, of age and
dilapidated condition, or of poorly installed electrical wiring or equipment,
defective chimney, gas connection, or heating apparatus, or for any other
reason, is likely to cause a fire, and which is situated or occupied in a
manner that endangers other property or human life;
      (19)   Any building containing combustible or explosive materials or
inflammable substances which are liable to cause fire or pose a danger to the
safety of the building, premises, or to human life;
      (20)   Any building which is in a filthy or unsanitary condition so as to
be liable to cause the spread of contagious or infectious disease; and/or
      (21)   Any building which is in such weak, dilapidated, or deteriorated
condition that it endangers a person or property because of the probability of
partial or entire collapse.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.06 COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   When the Codes Enforcement Officer has inspected or caused to be inspected
any building and has determined the building is a dangerous building, the Codes
Enforcement Officer shall commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation,
or demolition of the building.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.07 NOTICE AND ORDER OF DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   (A)   (1)   The Codes Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice and order of
dangerous building, directed to the owner of the building.
      (2)   The notice and order shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property
sufficient to identify the premises upon which the building is located;
         (b)   A statement that the Codes Enforcement Officer has determined
the building to be dangerous, and a brief description of the conditions found
to render the building dangerous;
         (c)   A statement of whether the building must be repaired, vacated,
or demolished, and a time within which the actions must be taken;
         (d)   A statement advising that if the required action is not taken,
the Codes Enforcement Officer may proceed to have the work done, and that the
costs of the action shall be a lien against the property; and
         (e)   A statement advising that any person having record title or
holding a legal interest in the building may appeal the notice and order, by
filing a notice of appeal with the Codes Enforcement Officer within 30 days
from the date of service of the notice and order and that failure to appeal
will constitute a waiver of all right to a hearing and determination of the
matter.
   (B)   The notice and order, and any amended or supplemental notice and
order, shall be served upon the owner and any occupants by either personal
delivery or mailing a copy of the notice and order to the persons by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The notice and order shall also be posted on
the property. Service by certified mail shall be effective on the date of
mailing. The failure of the person to receive the notice and order shall not
affect the validity of any proceeding taken under this section.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.08 NOTICE AND ORDER TO VACATE.
   (A)   Issuance of order to vacate. If the Codes Enforcement Officer
determines a building in the condition as to make it imminently dangerous to
life, limb, property, or the safety of the public or the building’s occupants,
the Codes Enforcement Officer shall issue an order to vacate, ordering the
building be immediately vacated.
   (B)   Posting of order to vacate.
      (1)   Every order to vacate shall be posted upon each exit of the
building and shall be in substantially the following form:
 
ORDER TO VACATE
DANGER
THIS BUILDING DEEMED UNSAFE FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY
IT IS UNLAWFUL FOR ANY PERSON TO OCCUPY OR RESIDE IN THIS BUILDING
 
      (2)   Whenever the order is posted, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall
also provide written notice and order to vacate to the owner and any occupants
of the posted building containing the following information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property
sufficient to identify the premises upon which the building is located;
         (b)   A statement that the Codes Enforcement Officer has determined
the condition of the building to be imminently dangerous to life, limb,
property, or the safety of the public or the building’s occupants, and a brief
description of the conditions found to render the building dangerous;
         (c)   A statement that the building has been ordered vacated, and that
the building must be repaired or demolished, and a time within which the action
must be taken;
         (d)   A statement advising that if the required action is not taken,
the Codes Enforcement Officer may proceed to have the work done, and that the
costs of the action shall be a lien against the property; and
         (e)   A statement advising that any person having record title or
holding a legal interest in the building may appeal the notice and order, by
filing a notice of appeal with the Codes Enforcement Officer within ten days
from the date of service of the notice and order and that failure to appeal
will constitute a waiver of all right to a hearing and determination of the
matter.
      (3)   No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so
posted, except to repair or demolish the building under permit.
      (4)   No person shall remove or deface any order to vacate after it is
posted until the required repairs or demolition have been completed.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 APPEALS.
   (A)   A notice of appeal shall contain the following:
      (1)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of the appellant
in the building which is the subject of the order protested;
      (2)   A brief statement of any material facts which support the
contentions of the appellant that the Codes Enforcement Officer is in error;
      (3)   A brief statement of the relief sought and the reasons why the
order protested should be reversed, modified, or otherwise set aside; and
      (4)   Signatures of the appellant, his or her official mailing address,
and verification upon penalty of perjury as to the truth of the matters stated
in the notice of appeal.
   (B)   Failure of any person to file a notice of appeal as provided by this
section shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing on the protested
order, or any portion thereof.
   (C)   If a timely notice of appeal is filed, the Codes Enforcement Officer
shall notify the appellant and owner of the building, if different, of the time
and place of the hearing on the appeal. A copy of this notice shall be posted
on the property. Not less than ten days prior to the hearing, notice of the
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or
by posting notices in three public places in the city.
   (D)   The hearing on any appeal shall be before the City Council.
      (1)   At the hearing, the appellant may present testimony, call
witnesses, and submit evidence. The City Council, upon its own motion, may
inspect the building to assist in its determination.
      (2)   Only those matters specifically raised by the appellant in the
notice of appeal shall be considered at the hearing.
   (E)   If the City Council denies the appeal, in whole or in part, the City
Council shall enter an order of abatement. The order shall specify a time
certain within which the owner of the building shall either make the building
safe or have the building demolished and shall state that if the owner fails to
act within the specified time, the city may, at the owner’s expense, make the
building safe or have the building demolished. Any order issued pursuant to
this section may be appealed as provided by state law.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.10 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If, after any order of the Codes Enforcement Officer or City Council
becomes final, the person to whom the order is directed fails, neglects, or
refuses to obey the order, the Codes Enforcement Officer may issue a citation
and commence abatement of the building as a public nuisance, including causing
the building to be demolished.
   (B)   Whenever the required repair or demolition is not commenced within 30
days of any final order issued pursuant to an appeal from a notice and order of
dangerous building, the Codes Enforcement Officer shall cause the building to
be posted with an order to vacate. Any order to vacate shall be in the form set
forth in § 151.08(B)(1); provided, however, that the order shall not be treated
as an appealable order under terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.11 COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Assessment of costs of abatement. If the owner fails to abate the
building, or if summary abatement is ordered pursuant to §
151.12, and the city makes the building safe or has the building demolished,
the Codes Enforcement Officer shall submit to the City Council a report
containing an itemized statement of costs. Upon receipt of the report, the City
Council shall, by resolution, assess the cost of abatement against the
property. The assessment shall be a lien against the property, and may be
enforced and collected as provided by ORS 223.505 to 223.650.
   (B)   Notice of assessment. A copy of the resolution assessing the cost
shall be mailed to the owner by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   (C)   Lien docket; interest. The City Recorder shall enter into the city
lien docket a statement of the amount assessed against the property; the name
of the owner; the date of the assessment resolution; and a statement that the
lien is for the costs of abatement of a dangerous building. The assessment
shall become a lien upon the real property at the time of entry on the lien
docket. The lien shall bear interest at the statutory rate commencing on the
date the lien is entered in the city lien docket. The City Recorder shall also
record a notice of lien in the deed records of the county.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.12 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, when the Codes
Enforcement Officer finds a building or structure is unmistakably dangerous and
imminently endangers human life or property, the Codes Enforcement Officer may
immediately declare the building or structure a nuisance and summarily order
the building demolished.
   (B)   If summary abatement occurs, the owner shall be afforded a post-
abatement hearing before the City Council at the earliest opportunity, to
determine whether abatement was proper. The Codes Enforcement Officer shall
notify the owner and any other person holding a legal interest in the property
of the time and place of the post-abatement hearing. A copy of this notice
shall be posted on the property. Not less than ten days prior to the hearing,
notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city or by posting notices in three public places in the city.
   (C)   After hearing on summary abatement, the City Council shall, by
resolution, determine whether abatement was proper or not, and, if proper,
assess the costs of abatement as provided by §
151.11.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to, and not in lieu of, abatement as provided by this chapter,
maintaining or allowing any building to be maintained in violation of any
provision of this chapter, or any engaging in any violation of order to vacate,
is punishable by a penalty not to exceed $500 per violation, and each day that
the violation continues after due notice shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(Ord. 002-2000, passed 8-30-1999)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Generally
   
152.03   Administration
   
152.04   Provisions for flood hazard protection
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the City Administrator’s interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. AO is characterized as sheet
flow and AH indicates ponding.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on
maps always includes the letters A or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation on maps always
includes the letters A or V.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Recorder or other city official appointed by
the Mayor with approval of City Council.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of specified flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition or partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. The official map on which the Federal Insurance
Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes food profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built or a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 executive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does not
include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for the improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(Ord. 331, passed 11-9-1998)
§ 152.02 GENERALLY.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled Flood Insurance
Study: Douglas County, Oregon and Incorporated Areas, dated 2-17-2010 with the
accompanying Flood Insurance Maps is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Study is on file at the City
Hall, 124 Third Street, Glendale, Oregon.
(Ord. 331, passed 11-9-1998)
§ 152.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit. A development shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in §
152.02. The permit shall be special flood hazard established in §
152.02. The permit shall be for all structures including manufactured homes, as
set forth in §
152.01, and for all other development including fill and other activities, also
as set forth in §
152.01.
   (B)   Designation of the City Administrator. The City Administrator is
hereby appointed to administer and implement this chapter by granting or
denying development permit applications in accordance with it’s provisions.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the City Administrator. Duties of the
City Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Permit review.
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of §
152.04(C)(1) are met.
      (2)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has
not been provided in accordance with §
152.02, the City Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or
other source, in order to administer §
152.04 (B)(1), (B)(2), and (C);
      (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
         (a)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study or required as in division (C)(2) above, obtain and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not
the structure contains a basement;
         (b)   For all new or substantially improved flood-proofed structures;
verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level); and
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourses.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and State Water Resources Board
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
the notification to the Federal Insurance Administration; and
         (b)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (5)   Interpretation of the FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions); and/or
      (6)   Variance procedures. The City Council shall hear and decide appeals
and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter. The appeals
shall be granted consistent with the standards of 44 C.F.R. 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 331, passed 11-9-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required.
      (1)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(Reference FEMA’s Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Areas guidebook for
additional techniques).
      (2)   Construction materials and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood water into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         (d)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or five acres (whichever is less).
      (5)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the Flood Insurance Study or from another authoritative source
(§
152.03(C)(2)), applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure
that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgement and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding, and the like, where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in §§
152.02 or
152.03, the following provisions are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are subject to flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement
must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or
must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (3)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or one foot above base flood elevation; or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be flood proofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this division (B)(3)(c) based
on their development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and
plans. The certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
152.03;
         (d)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not flood proofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
division (B)(1) above; and/or
         (e)   Applicants flood proofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
below the flood proofed level (such as a building constructed to the base flood
level will be rated one foot below that level).
      (4)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A 1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or
above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (A)(1)
(b) above.
   (C)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.02 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (C)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
(Ord. 331, passed 11-9-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and scope
   
153.02   Adoption of State Specialty Codes
   
153.03   Power and duties of Building Official
   
153.04   Plans and permits
   
153.05   Fees
   
153.06   Alternate materials and methods
   
153.07   Modifications
   
153.08   Construction of chimneys, flues, and the like
   
153.09   Tests
   
153.10   Appeals
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform performance
standards providing reasonable safeguards for health, safety, welfare, comfort,
and security of the residents of the city who are occupants and users of
buildings and for the use of modern methods, devices, materials, techniques,
and practicable maximum energy conservation.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to the construction, alteration, moving,
demolition, repair, maintenance, and work associated with any building or
structure, except those located in a public way.
   (C)   Where, in any specific case, different sections of this chapter
specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the
most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable.
   (D)   Where, in any specific case, there is a conflict between this chapter
and Oregon Revised Statutes, the statute shall govern.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.02 ADOPTION OF STATE SPECIALTY CODES.
   (A)   Specialty Codes and rules. The following Oregon Specialty Codes,
Appendix Chapters thereof and Oregon Administrative Rules, save and except such
portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by this chapter, are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein as fully as if set forth in full in this
chapter, and the same shall be controlling and enforced within the entire
corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   Oregon Structural Specialty Code, as adopted by OAR 918-460-0010
through 918-460-0015;
      (2)   Oregon Residential Specialty Code, as adopted by OAR 918-480-0002
through 918-480-0010;
      (3)   Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code, as adopted by OAR 918-750-0110
through 918- 750-0115;
      (4)   Oregon Electrical Specialty Code, as adopted by OAR 918-305-0100 to
918-305- 0105;
      (5)   Oregon Mechanical Specialty Code, as adopted by OAR 918-440-0010
through 918-440-0012;
      (6)   Manufactured Dwelling Code:
         (a)   Parks. The manufactured dwelling park and mobile home park rules
adopted by OAR 918-600-0005 through 918-600-0030; and
         (b)   Manufactured home installations. The manufactured dwelling rules
adopted by OAR 918-500-0000 through 918-500-0590.
      (7)   Recreational Park and Organizational Camp Regulations as adopted by
OAR 918-650-0000 through 918-650-0080.
   (B)   Compliance. No person shall conduct building or related activities
without compliance with these standards.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 POWER AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   General. The Building Official is authorized to enforce all the
provisions of this chapter. The Building Official shall have the power to
render written and oral interpretations of this chapter and to adopt and
enforce administrative procedures in order to clarify the application of its
provisions. Such interpretations, rules, and regulations shall be in
conformance with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry. When it may be necessary to inspect to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, or the Building Official has reasonable cause to
believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is
contrary to, in violation of this chapter, or which otherwise makes the
building or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Building Official may
enter said building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform
the duties imposed by this chapter; provided that if such building or premises
be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested.
If such building or premises be unoccupied, the Building Official shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or
control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the
Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by state law to
secure entry.
   (C)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter (or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented
through its enforcement), the Building Official may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any person(s) engaged in the doing or causing of
such work to be done. Such person(s) shall stop such work until specifically
authorized by the Building Official to proceed thereafter.
   (D)   Disconnection of utilities in emergencies. The Building Official shall
have the authority to disconnect fuel-gas utility service and/or other energy
supplies to a building, structure, premises, or equipment regulated by this
chapter when necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property.
The Building Official shall, whenever possible, notify the serving utility, the
owner, and occupant of the building, structure, or premises of the decision to
disconnect prior to taking such action, and shall notify such serving utility,
owner, and occupant of the building, structure, or premises in writing of such
disconnection within a reasonable time thereafter.
   (E)   Abatement of hazardous equipment.
      (1)   When the Building Official ascertains that equipment or any portion
thereof, regulated by this chapter has become hazardous to life, health, or
property, the Building Official shall order the equipment either removed from
its location or restored to a safe and/or sanitary condition, as appropriate.
The notice shall be in writing and contain a fixed time limit for compliance.
Persons shall not use the defective equipment after receiving the notice.
      (2)   When equipment or an installation is to be disconnected, written
notice of the disconnection (and causes therefor) shall be given within 24
hours to the involved utility, the owner and/or occupant of the building,
structure, or premises. When equipment is maintained in violation of this
chapter and in violation of a notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this
section, the Building Official may institute such action as the Building
Official deems necessary to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   (F)   Reconnection after order to disconnect. The Building Official must
authorize the reconnection and/or use of any equipment regulated by this
chapter which has been disconnected, ordered disconnected or discontinued by
the Building Official before any person may make a connection to or from an
energy, fuel, or power supply to such equipment.
   (G)   Maintenance reinspection. The Building Official may cause the
reinspection of any building or structure, both existing and new, or any part
thereof to ensure that such building or structure is being maintained in a safe
and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards which are required by this
chapter shall be maintained in conformance with the Building Code edition under
which installed. The owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible
for the maintenance of buildings and structures.
   (H)   Occupancy violations. Whenever any building, structure, or equipment
therein regulated by this chapter is used contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, the Building Official may order such use discontinued and the
structure (or portion thereof) vacated. All persons using the structure (or
portion thereof) shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the
Building Official in the notice and make the structure, or portion thereof,
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.04 PLANS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance.
      (1)   The application, plans, specifications, computations, and other
data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the Building
Official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the city to verify
compliance with any applicable local laws. If the Building Official finds that
the work described in an application for a permit and the plans,
specifications, and other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of
this chapter and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the fees have
been paid, the Building Official shall issue a permit therefor to the
applicant.
      (2)   When the Building Official issues the permit where plans are
required, the Building Official shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and
specifications “APPROVED”. Such approved plans and specifications shall not be
changed, modified, or altered without authorization from the Building Official,
and all work regulated by this chapter shall be done in accordance with the
approved plans. Any modifications to the site plan or building occupancy shall
require city approval.
      (3)   The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of
part of a building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for
the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided
adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of this chapter. The holder of a partial permit shall
proceed without assurance that the permit for the entire building or structure
will be granted.
   (B)   Retention of plans. One set of approved plans, specifications, and
computations shall be retained by the Building Official for a period of not
less than 90 days from date of completion of the work covered therein; and one
set of approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant,
and said set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times
during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
   (C)   Validity of permit.
      (1)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans,
specifications, and computations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or
an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of
any other ordinance of the city or any other federal, state, or local law,
statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance.
      (2)   The issuance of a permit based on plans, specifications, and other
data shall not prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring the
correction of errors in said plans, specifications, and other data, or from
preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of
this chapter or of any other ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Expiration of plan reviews. Applications for which no permit is issued
within 180 days following the date of the application shall expire by
limitation, and plans and other data submitted for review may thereafter be
returned to the applicant or destroyed by the Building Official. The Building
Official may extend the time for action by the applicant for a period not
exceeding 180 days on request by the applicant showing that circumstances
beyond the control of the applicant have prevented action from being taken. No
application shall be extended more than once. In order to renew action on an
application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new
plan review fee.
   (E)   Permit expiration, extension, and reinstatement.
      (1)   Expiration. Every permit issued by the Building Official under the
provisions of this chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void
in either of the following manners:
         (a)   Every permit issued by the Building Official shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if the building or work authorized by such
permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of such permit, or if the
building or work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any
time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days. The work shall not
be considered suspended or abandoned where the permittee has pursued activities
deemed by the Building Official to indicate the intent to start and complete
the project. The Building Official may require the permittee to document these
activities; or
         (b)   Every permit issued by the Building Official shall expire by
limitation and become null and void 24 months after the date of permit
issuance. If the building or work authorized by such permit has not received
final inspection approval prior to the permit expiration date, all work shall
stop until a new permit is obtained for the value of the work remaining
unfinished; provided, however, at the time of permit issuance, the Building
Official may approve a period exceeding 24 months for completion of work when
the permittee can demonstrate that the complexity or size of the project makes
completing the project within 24 months unreasonable.
      (2)   Extension. Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for
an extension of the time within which work is to be completed under that permit
when the permittee is unable to complete work within the time required by this
section for good and satisfactory reasons. The Building Official may extend the
time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days on written
request by the permittee, showing that circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee have prevented work from being completed. No permit shall be extended
more than once.
      (3)   Reinstatement.
         (a)   Where a permit has expired, the permit can be reinstated and the
work authorized by the original permit can be recommenced, provided the
following are met:
            1.   The building code under which the original permit was issued
and other laws which are enforced by the city have not been amended in any
manner which affects the work authorized by the original permit;
            2.   No changes have been made or will be made in the original
plans and specifications for such work; and
            3.   The original permit expired less than one year from the
request to reinstate.
         (b)   The fee for a reinstated permit shall be one-half the amount
required for a new permit. Where the request for reinstatement does not comply
with the preceding criteria, a new permit, at full permit fees, shall be
required.
   (F)   Work without a permit/investigation fees.
      (1)   Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this chapter
has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation
shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      (2)   An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, may be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The payment
of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all
other provisions of this chapter nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
   (G)   Not transferable. A permit issued to one person or firm is not
transferable and shall not permit any other person or firm to perform any work
thereunder.
   (H)   Suspension/revocation. The Building Official may, in writing, suspend
or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter whenever the
permit is issued in error on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or if
its issuance (or activity thereunder) is in violation of any ordinance or
regulation of any other provisions of this code.
   (I)   Inspections.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the permit holder or authorized agent to
request all inspections that may be necessary or otherwise required in a timely
manner, provide access to the site and to provide all equipment as may be
deemed necessary or appropriate by the Building Official. The permit holder
shall not proceed with construction activity until authorized to do so by the
Building Official. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to cause the work
to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Any expense incurred
by the permit holder to remove or replace any material required for proper
inspection shall be the responsibility of the permit holder or his or her
agent.
      (2)   Work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the permit
holder or an agent of the permit holder has posted or otherwise made available
an inspection record card such as to allow the Building Official to
conveniently make the required entries thereon regarding inspection of the
work. This card shall be maintained available by the permit holder until final
approval has been granted by the Building Official.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 FEES.
   Fees charged under this chapter shall be as set by Council resolution. The
determination of value or valuation under any provisions of this chapter shall
be made by the Building Official. The value to be used in computing the
building permit and plan review fees shall be the total value of all
construction work for which the permit is issued as well as all finish work,
painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators,
fire-extinguishing systems, and any other permanent equipment.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.06 ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of
any alternate material, design, or method of construction not specifically
prescribed by this chapter, provided such alternate has been approved and its
use authorized by the Building Official.
   (B)   The Building Official may approve any such alternate material, design,
or method, provided the Building Official finds that the proposed material,
design, or method complies with the provisions of this chapter and that it is,
for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this
chapter in suitability, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability,
safety, and sanitation.
   (C)   The Building Official shall require that evidence or proof be
submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use. The
details of any approval of any alternate material, design, or method shall be
recorded and entered in the files of the city.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.07 MODIFICATIONS.
   When there are practical difficulties in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter, the Building Official may grant modifications provided the Building
Official finds that the modification is in conformance with the intent and
purpose of this chapter and that said modification does not lessen any fire-
protection requirements nor the structural integrity of the building involved.
Any action granting modification shall be recorded in the files of the city.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.08 CONSTRUCTION OF CHIMNEYS, FLUES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to build, construct, or
use any chimney, flue, or substitute for a chimney or flue within the limits of
Blocks Nos. 2, 3, and 4 in the city unless the same shall be constructed as
provided in this section.
   (B)   (1)   All flues and chimneys shall be built of brick, concrete, stone,
or hollow tile of clay, concrete, concrete block, or reinforced concrete not
less than eight inches thick; provided, that for stone masonry other than sawed
or dressed stone in courses, properly bonded and tied with metal anchors, the
thickness shall be not less than 12 inches; and provided, that in dwellings,
brick or solid concrete chimneys with a fire clay liner used exclusively for
ordinary stoves, ranges, furnaces, or fireplaces, the thickness of the masonry
may be reduced to not less than three- and three-fourths inches with a two-inch
clearance to combustible surfaces.
      (2)   Every flue or chimney shall be lined with a flue lining. High
pressure steam boilers, incinerators exceeding nine square feet grate area or
of fuel-fired type, and other moderate heat appliances shall have a lining of
four inches of fire brick for a distance of at least 25 feet above the flue
entrance.
      (3)   Chimneys or flues shall extend at least three feet above the
highest point at which they come in contact with a roof of the building and at
least two feet higher than any ridge within ten feet of the chimney or flue.
They shall be properly capped.
      (4)   Chimneys or flues shall be built upon concrete or solid masonry
foundations. The footing for an exterior chimney or flue shall start below the
frost line.
      (5)   The back and sides of fireplaces hereafter erected shall be of
approved masonry or reinforced concrete not less than eight inches in
thickness. A lining of fire brick or other approved material at least two
inches thick shall be provided unless the thickness is 12 inches.
      (6)   Fireplaces, except when designed and used only for approved gas
appliances, shall have hearths of brick, stone, tile, or other approved
incombustible material supported on masonry arches. The hearths shall extend at
least 20 inches outside of the chimney breast and not less than 12 inches
beyond each side of the fireplace opening along the chimney breast. The
combined thickness of hearth and supporting arch shall be not less than six
inches at any point.
      (7)   Wooden centers used in the construction of that part of the
supporting arch, which is below the hearth of the fireplace inside of the
chimney breast, shall be removed when the construction of the arch is completed
and before plastering on the underside.
      (8)   Any appliance or flue with current Underwriters Laboratory approval
shall be acceptable if installed strictly in accordance with manufacturer
provided installation instructions.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 TESTS.
   (A)   Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, or that any material, method, or design does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter, the Building Official may require
tests as proof of compliance to be made at no expense to the city.
   (B)   Test methods shall be as specified by this chapter or by other
recognized test standards. If there are no recognized and accepted test methods
for the proposed alternate, the Building Official shall determine test
procedures.
   (C)   All tests shall be made by an approved testing agency. Reports of such
tests shall be retained by the Building Official for the period required for
the retention of public records.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any appeal filed pursuant to this chapter, other than an appeal of a
civil penalty pursuant to §
153.99, shall be filed in writing, shall describe the basis for the appeal, and
shall first be filed with the Building Official. Any decision relating to the
suitability of alternate materials and methods of construction or
interpretation by the Building Official with regard to this chapter may be
appealed to the Board of Appeals in conformance with procedures provided
herein.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Official made
pursuant to the following specialty codes may appeal that decision to the
following:
      (1)   Electrical Specialty Code: to the state’s Building Codes Division,
Chief Electrical Inspector;
      (2)   Structural Specialty Code: to the state’s Building Codes Structures
Boards;
      (3)   Mechanical Specialty Code: to the state’s Building Codes Structures
Board;
      (4)   Plumbing Specialty Code: to the state’s Building Codes Division;
      (5)   One- and Two-Family Dwelling Specialty Code: to the state’s
Building Codes Structures Board;
      (6)   Manufactured Dwelling Code: to the state’s Manufactured Structures
and Parks Advisory Board as per ORS 455.690; and
      (7)   Recreational Park and Organizational Camp Regulations: to the State
Manufactured Structures and Parks Advisory Board as per ORS 455.690.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, or the terms of a permit issued hereunder, or who undertakes an
activity regulated by this chapter without first obtaining a permit, or who
fails to comply with a stop work order issued pursuant to this chapter, shall
be subject to a civil penalty, not to exceed $5,000 for a single violation.
      (2)   In the case of a continuing violation, each day that any such
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation which shall cause
such person to be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000 per day. Any
person who acts as the agent of, or otherwise assists, a person who engages in
an activity which would be subject to a civil penalty, shall likewise be
subject to a civil penalty. The city may not assess a civil penalty for a
violation of this chapter unless the city provides to each person that is
subject to the civil penalty notice that:
         (a)   Describes the alleged violation, including any relevant code
provision numbers, ordinance numbers, or other identifying references;
         (b)   States that the city intends to assess a civil penalty for the
violation and states the amount of the civil penalty;
         (c)   States that the party may challenge the assessment of a civil
penalty; and
         (d)   Describes the means and the deadline for informing the city that
the party is challenging the assessment of the civil penalty.
      (3)   Such notice shall be sent to each such person by both first class
and certified mail.
   (B)   Appeal. Each person subject to civil penalties under this chapter may
appeal such civil penalty assessment to the City Council, which is the
designated Hearing Officer for such appeals, and such appeal shall be initiated
by filing a notice of intent to appeal with the City Recorder within 13 days
after mailing of notice of the civil penalty assessment. The designated Hearing
Officer shall meet with all parties during normal business hours to consider
evidence, arguments, and ordinances regarding the case. Meetings may be
conducted at a city facility or on site, at the Hearing Officer’s discretion.
The Hearing Officer shall render a decision within ten days after the hearing
date.
   (C)   Prohibition of further approvals. The city shall not issue a notice of
final completion or permit of occupancy for property on which a violation of
this chapter has occurred or is occurring, until the violation has been cured
by restoration or other means acceptable to the city and any civil penalties
imposed for the violation have been paid.
   (D)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies provided by this section are
cumulative and not mutually exclusive and are in addition to any other rights,
remedies, and penalties available to the city under any other provision of law,
including, but not limited to, any action or proceeding necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate any violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Lien. Penalties assessed under the provisions of this chapter and not
paid within 30 days shall become a lien against the property.
(Ord. 03-2013, passed 11-5-2012; Res. 07-13, passed 2-11-2013)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan and any amendments is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 274, passed 11-14-1983)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning and land use development provisions are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 01-2005, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 06-2005, passed 4-11-2005; Ord. 03-2010,
passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 01-2012, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-9-2012;
Ord. 02-2014, passed 3-10-2014; Res. 01-2022, passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 02-2022,
passed 5-9-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
         
II.   STREET VACATIONS
         
III.   ANNEXATIONS
         
IV.   MAP CHANGES
         
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
         
VI.   SPECIAL ELECTIONS
         
VII.   ELECTIONS TO RECEIVE STATE REVENUES
         
VIII.   BONDS AND NOTES
         
IX.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
223           1-7-1974    Telephone franchise; California-Pacific Utilities
                          Company
238           12-10-1974  Telephone franchise; California-Pacific Utilities
                          Company
269           9-14-1981   Cable franchise; Cascade Cablevision, Inc.
296           2-12-1990   Electric utility franchise; Pacific Power and Light
                          Company (PacifiCorp); repealed by Ord. 02-2010
299           4-9-1990    Amendment to Ord. 269
310           8-9-1993    Gas utility franchise; WP Natural Gas
                          Cable franchise transfer from Shady Cove Cable
309           10-4-1993   Partners, L.P., to Phoenix Cablevision of Oregon,
                          Inc.
                          Granting to Citizens Telecommunications Company of
                          Oregon dba Frontier Communications, a non-exclusive
02-2007       3-5-2007    franchise and right to construct, operate and
                          maintain telecommunications service facilities and
                          provide services to in the city
                          Granting Douglas Services, Inc. a franchise to use
01-2010       7-24-2009   the public ways of the city for purposes of providing
                          telecommunications services for a period of three
                          years
02-2010       1-11-2010   Granting an electric utility franchise and general
                          utility easement to PacifiCorp and repealing Ord. 296
                          Granting Douglas Services, Inc. a franchise to use
01-2016       7-25-2016   the public ways of the city for purposes of providing
                          telecommunications services for a period of five
                          years
01-2020       5-11-2020   Granting an electric utility franchise and general
                          utility easement to PacifiCorp
                          Granting to Ziply Fiber of Oregon, LLC dba Ziply
                          Fiber, a non-exclusive franchise and right to
01-2022       2-18-2022   construct, operate and maintain telecommunications
                          service facilities and provide telecommunications
                          services
                         
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
196           4-8-1963    Alley vacation
199           1-14-1965   Alley vacation
288           9-12-1988   Consideration for street vacation; public hearing
289           11-14-1988  Street vacation
303           5-11-1992   Street vacation
317           10-10-1994  Street vacation
318           10-10-1994  Street vacation
323           6-12-1995   Street vacation
324           2-12-1996   Partial street vacations; total alley vacations
02-2005       9-13-2004   Street vacation
01-2006       8-8-2005    Providing for the vacation of lot lines in a portion
                          of the Clarissa Plat
                          Providing for the vacation of the easterly 15 feet of
01-2011       10-11-2010  Fourth Street from the southerly right- of-way line
                          of Montgomery Avenue; thence southerly 330 feet more
                          or less to the centerline of Sol Abraham Avenue
                         
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
247           10-20-1975  Annexation of land
248           11-4-1975   Annexation of land
279           5-13-1985   Consideration of annexation of land
280           9-9-1985    Annexation of land
281           12-16-1985  Amendment to Ord. 280
307           11-9-1992   Annexation of land
                         
 
TABLE IV: MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
292           12-11-1989  Amendment to Comprehensive Plan
297           2-12-1990   Amendment to Future Land Use Map of the Comprehensive
                          Plan
298           2-12-1990   Amendment to Zoning Map
301           11-18-1991  Amendment to Future Land Use Map of the Comprehensive
                          Plan
302           11-18-1991  Amendment to Zoning Map
305           11-9-1992   Amendment to Future Land Use Map of the Comprehensive
                          Plan
306           11-9-1992   Amendment to Zoning Map
314           12-13-1993  Amendment to Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use Map/
                          Zoning Map
322           2-13-1995   Amendment to Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use Map
                          and Zoning Map
01-2013       9-10-2012   Amendment to Future Comprehensive Plan Map
02-2013       9-10-2012   Amendment to Zoning Map
                         
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
02-2004       10-13-2003  Seventh Street alley changed to Winnie Walker Lane
01-2008       1-14-2008   Renaming a section of street to clarify addresses
                          north of Gilbert Avenue
                         
 
TABLE VI: SPECIAL ELECTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
197           4-6-1964    Election for new charter
198           4-6-1964    City tax base election
243           5-13-1975   Election for issuance and sale of bonds
245           6-5-1975    Amendment to Ord. 243
256           5-10-1978   Election for special one-year levy
                         
 
TABLE VII: ELECTIONS TO RECEIVE STATE REVENUES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
250           7-25-1977   Fiscal year 1977-1978
254           3-13-1978   Fiscal year 1977-1978
260           7-10-1979   Fiscal year 1979-1980
268           7-2-1981    Fiscal year 1981-1982
270           6-29-1982   Fiscal year 1982-1983
284           6-30-1986   Fiscal year 1986-1987
286           6-29-1987   Fiscal year 1987-1988
337-99        6-14-1999   Fiscal year 1999-2000
Res. 16-08    6-9-2008    Fiscal year 2008- 2009
Res. 14-09    6-8-2009    Fiscal year 2009- 2010
Res. 07-10    6-14-2010   Fiscal year 2010- 2011
Res. 12-11    5-9-2011    Fiscal year 2011- 2012
Res. 03-12    5-14-2012   Fiscal year 2012- 2013
Res. 12-13    6-10-2013   Fiscal year 2013- 2014
Res. 05-14    6-9-2014    Fiscal year 2014- 2015
Res. 12-15    6-29-2015   Fiscal year 2015- 2016
Res. 11-16    6-13-2016   Fiscal year 2016- 2017
Res. 04-17    6-12-2017   Fiscal year 2017- 2018
Res. 05-18    5-14-2018   Fiscal year 2018- 2019
Res. 03-19    5-13-2019   Fiscal year 2019- 2020
Res. 07-2020  5-11-2020   Fiscal year 2020-2021
Res. 05-2021  6-14-2021   Fiscal year 2021-2022
                         
 
TABLE VIII: BONDS AND NOTES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
194           5-7-1962    Purchase of firefighting equipment
227           5-28-1974   Water bonds
233           9-10-1974   Water bonds
237           12-10-1974  Promissory notes; water system
239           1-14-1975   Amendment to Ord. 233
251           11-14-1977  Sewer bonds
253           12-12-1977  Amendment to Ord. 251
Res. 04-16    1-25-2016   Abolishment of the promissory note policy for late
                          water and sewer payments
                         
 
TABLE IX: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
213           5-5-1969    Agreement with Douglas County Sheriff
Res. 83/84-2  11-14-1983  Urban Growth Area Joint Management Agreement
327           9-17-1996   Creation of Umpqua Regional Council of Governments
Res. 07-11    12-13-2010  Loan contract with Oregon Business Development for
                          water project
Res. 01-12    9-26-2011   Construction contract with Rogue Valley Construction
                          Services, Inc.
Res. 02-13    10-8-2012   Creation of Umpqua Transit District
Res. 08-14    6-9-2014    Contract with Oregon Infrastructure Finance Authority
Res. 05-16    3-28-2016   Creation of Library System Special District
Res. 02-18    3-12-2018   Douglas County Multi-Jurisdictional Natural Hazard
                          Mitigation Plan adopted
Res. 07-18    7-9-2018    County-wide transportation district agreement
Res. 07-19    6-10-2019   Contract with Oregon Infrastructure Finance Authority
                          for Water Fund
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oregon Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OREGON REVISED STATUTES
ORS Section Code Section
ORS Section              Code Section
30.285                   93.04
34.010 to 34.100         52.26,
                         52.27
92.010 to 92.160         150.54
Chapters 131 to 169      130.15
Chapters 161 through 167 130.15
166.180 to 166.645       130.15
Chapter 174              52.29
192.410 to 192.505       34.30
192.610 to 192.690       31.022
192.660                  31.022
                         51.10,
Chapter 223              52.21,
                         52.22,
                         150.23
223.205 through 223.295  51.10
223.208                  52.21
223.210                  150.23
223.215                  150.23
223.230                  150.23
223.235                  150.23
223.265                  150.23
223.285                  150.23
223.297                  52.01
223.297 to 223.314       52.01
223.389                  150.02
223.505 to 223.650       151.11
223.805 to 223.845       150.50
223.880                  91.02
224.010 to 244.390       31.042
Chapter 227              32.20
227.030                  32.22
279C.100                 32.02
279C.340                 32.06
Chapter 287A             150.23
310.060                  150.23
339.010                  130.04
366.460                  91.02
368.910                  91.02
373.020                  91.02
373.030                  91.02
419B.550 to 419B.558     130.01
419C.080                 130.01
419C.085                 130.01
419C.088                 130.01
447.310                  91.02
455.690                  153.10
Chapter 471              130.15
474.105 to 474.115       130.15
475.035                  130.30
811.602 to 811.637       70.60
                         
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. Date Passed Code Section
Res.    Date Passed Code Section
83/84-2 11-14-1983  TSO IX
12-08   5-12-2008   34.31—
                    34.33
16-08   6-9-2008    TSO VII
14-09   6-8-2009    TSO VII
07-10   6-14-2010   TSO VII
03-11   8-9-2010    53.20,
                    54.18
07-11   12-13-2010  TSO IX
12-11   5-9-2011    TSO VII
01-12   9-26-2011   TSO IX
03-12   5-14-2012   TSO VII
02-13   10-8-2012   TSO IX
07-13   2-11-2013   153.99
12-13   6-10-2013   TSO VII
17-13   6-10-2013   32.21—
                    32.32
05-14   6-9-2014    TSO VII
08-14   6-9-2014    TSO IX
09-14   6-9-2014    34.15
10-14   6-23-2014   34.01
12-15   6-29-2015   TSO VII
04-16   1-25-2016   TSO VIII
05-16   3-28-2016   TSO IX
11-16   6-13-2016   TSO VII
04-17   6-12-2017   TSO VII
02-18   3-12-2018   TSO IX
05-18   5-14-2018   TSO VII
07-18   7-9-2018    TSO IX
07-19   6-10-2019   TSO IX
03-19   5-13-2019   TSO VII
07-2020 5-11-2020   TSO VII
3-2021  3-8-2021    34.40
05-2021 6-14-2021   TSO VII
01-2022 4-11-2022   155.01
03-2024 5-13-2024   93.04
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. Date Passed Code Section
Ord.     Date Passed Code Section
137      3-3-1941    30.02
143      4-14-1941   55.01,
                     55.99
194      5-7-1962    TSO VIII
196      4-8-1963    TSO II
197      4-6-1964    TSO VI
198      4-6-1964    TSO VI
199      1-14-1965   TSO II
                     93.01,
201      10-4-1965   93.02,
                     93.99
206      3-7-1966    30.01
213      5-5-1969    TSO IX
219      11-14-1973  32.20
223      1-7-1974    TSO I
227      5-28-1974   TSO VIII
                     53.01—
232      8-13-1974   53.19,
                     53.99
233      9-10-1974   TSO VIII
237      12-10-1974  TSO VIII
238      12-10-1974  TSO I
239      1-14-1975   TSO VIII
                     54.01—
240      5-13-1975   54.15,
                     54.99
243      5-13-1975   TSO VI
245      6-5-1975    TSO VI
247      10-20-1975  TSO III
248      11-4-1975   TSO III
                     53.50—
249      7-11-1977   53.58,
                     53.99
250      7-25-1977   TSO VII
251      11-14-1977  TSO VIII
252      12-12-1977  54.13
253      12-12-1977  TSO VIII
254      3-13-1978   TSO VII
256      5-10-1978   TSO VI
260      7-10-1979   TSO VII
                     130.02,
264      1-12-1981   130.15,
                     130.99
268      7-2-1981    TSO VII
269      9-14-1981   TSO I
270      6-29-1982   TSO VII
274      11-14-1983  154.01
279      5-13-1985   TSO III
280      9-9-1985    TSO III
281      12-16-1985  TSO III
284      6-30-1986   TSO VII
286      6-29-1987   TSO VII
                     91.25—
287      5-9-1988    91.37,
                     91.99
288      9-12-1988   TSO II
289      11-14-1988  TSO II
292      12-11-1989  TSO IV
296      2-12-1990   TSO I
297      2-12-1990   TSO IV
298      2-12-1990   TSO IV
299      4-9-1990    TSO I
301      11-18-1991  TSO IV
302      11-18-1991  TSO IV
303      5-11-1992   TSO II
305      11-9-1992   TSO IV
306      11-9-1992   TSO IV
307      11-9-1992   TSO III
310      8-9-1993    TSO I
309      10-4-1993   TSO I
314      12-13-1993  TSO IV
313      3-14-1994   53.11
317      10-10-1994  TSO II
318      10-10-1994  TSO II
                     53.30—
319      10-10-1994  53.35,
                     53.99
320      11-2-1994   53.09,
                     53.99
                     54.13,
321      11-2-1994   54.16,
                     54.99
322      2-13-1995   TSO IV
323      6-12-1995   TSO II
324      2-12-1996   TSO II
327      9-17-1996   TSO IX
331      11-9-1998   152.01—
                     152.04
                     52.01—
                     52.04,
                     52.15—
                     52.20,
332      11-20-1998  52.22—
                     52.26,
                     52.28,
                     52.29,
                     52.99
                     150.01,
                     150.02,
333-99   12-14-1998  150.15—
                     150.24,
                     150.35—
                     150.54
334-99   12-14-1998  51.01—
                     51.11
                     91.01—
336-99   6-14-1999   91.12,
                     91.99
337-99   6-14-1999   TSO VII
                     151.01—
002-2000 8-30-1999   151.12,
                     151.99
                     70.01—
                     70.15,
                     70.30—
08-2000  11-8-1999   70.37,
                     70.50—
                     70.61,
                     70.99
                     50.01—
                     50.05,
                     50.20—
02-2001  1-8-2000    50.27,
                     50.40—
                     50.43,
                     50.99
                     31.001—
                     31.006,
                     31.020—
10-2000  3-15-2000   31.043,
                     31.055—
                     31.059,
                     31.070—
                     31.074
02-2002  8-13-2001   54.13
03-2002  12-10-2001  53.12
04-2002  12-10-2001  53.05
05-2002  4-8-2002    53.09
                     52.19—
02-2003  3-10-2003   52.21,
                     52.25—
                     52.27
                     90.01,
                     90.03—
01-2004  9-8-2003    90.18,
                     90.20—
                     90.22,
                     90.99
02-2004  10-13-2003  TSO V
03-2004  6-1-2004    52.40—
                     52.42
02-2005  9-13-2004   TSO II
01-2005  12-13-2004  155.01
06-2005  4-11-2005   155.01
                     54.13,
08-2005  5-9-2005    54.16,
                     54.17
04-2005  6-14-2005   54.16
01-2006  8-8-2005    TSO II
02-2006  8-8-2005    130.01,
                     130.99
03-2006  9-12-2005   53.11
                     111.01—
05-2006  5-8-2006    111.07,
                     111.99
                     112.01—
06-2006  5-8-2006    112.14,
                     112.99
                     33.01—
07-2006  7-10-2006   33.06,
                     33.99
08-2006  7-10-2006   130.03,
                     130.99
09-2006  7-10-2006   130.04,
                     130.99
                     92.01—
01-2007  9-11-2006   92.05,
                     92.99
02-2007  3-5-2007    TSO I
                     130.30—
03-2007  3-5-2007    130.33,
                     130.99
01-2008  1-14-2008   TSO V
                     90.01—
02-2008  4-14-2008   90.22,
                     90.99
03-2008  5-12-2008   53.33
04-2008  7-14-2008   30.03
01-2010  7-24-2009   TSO I
02-2010  1-11-2010   TSO I
03-2010  2-8-2010    155.01
01-2011  10-11-2010  TSO II
01-2012  8-22-2011   155.01
02-2012  10-10-2011  32.01—
                     32.06
03-2012  4-9-2012    155.01
01-2013  9-10-2012   TSO IV
02-2013  9-10-2012   TSO IV
                     153.01—
03-2013  11-5-2012   153.10,
                     153.99
01-2014  3-10-2014   90.03
02-2014  3-10-2014   155.01
01-2015  7-28-2014   90.07
01-2016  7-25-2016   TSO I
01-2017  11-13-2017  90.03
                     110.01—
01-2019  8-12-2019   110.08,
                     110.99
01-2020  5-11-2020   TSO I
01-2022  2-18-2022   TSO I
02-2022  5-9-2022    155.01
03-2022  11-8-2022   130.34
01-2023  7-10-2023   93.03,
                     93.99
                    
 
 
