CITY CODE
of
HEPPNER, OREGON
1995
Code current through:
Ord. 590-24, passed 1-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Heppner, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 590-24, passed January 8, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 510-95
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF THE CITY OF HEPPNER, OREGON; AND
DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HEPPNER:
   SECTION 1: From the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City Code of the
City of Heppner, Oregon prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., contains the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances and including new provisions as follows: Title 1,
Chapter 4, establishing a general penalty system; Title 2, Chapter 2,
establishing the City Budget Committee in accordance with Oregon Local Budget
Law; Title 2, Chapter 3, establishing the City Planning Commission and
prescribing its membership, operation and authority; Title 2, Chapter 4,
establishing the Heppner Housing Authority and Board pursuant to Oregon Law;
Title 2, Chapter 5, establishing the Heppner Fire Department Advisory Committee
and prescribing its membership, operation and authority; Title 2, Chapter 6,
establishing a uniform process and conditions for the creation of standing and
ad hoc committees; Title 6, Chapter 1, adopting the Oregon Vehicle Code by
reference; and Title 9, Chapter 2, adopting the Uniform Fire Code, providing
for enforcement thereof and designating fire zones and penalties. The City Code
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official Code and Law
of the City as enacted by the City Council.
   SECTION 2: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be a continuation of the included ordinances and elimination of any
ordinances shall not cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not included in the Official City Code.
   SECTION 3: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever except by the City Council in the manner
prescribed by the City Charter.
   SECTION 4: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the City
Code are repealed.
   SECTION 5: This Ordinance and the Code shall be in full force and effect
after passage, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and
City Council.
   SECTION 6: In so much as the enforcement of this ordinance is necessary for
the health, safety and welfare of the City of Heppner, an emergency is declared
to exist and this ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately upon
passage by the City Council and approval by the Mayor.
   ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR this 13th day of
February, 1995.
          CITY OF HEPPNER, OREGON
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Heppner. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HEPPNER CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1995 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1995 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the City Code. (1995 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Recorder. Any person having in his custody a copy of the City Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of
the City Recorder. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and
shall be returned to the office of the City Recorder when directed so to do by
order of the City Council. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1995 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1995 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1995 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1995 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Heppner, County of Morrow, State of Oregon.
CITY COUNCIL: As used in this Code, the City Council is the Common Council as
defined and organized by the City Charter.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Heppner.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Heppner".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Heppner".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1995 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Civil Infractions
1-4-1-1: Definitions
1-4-1-2: Purpose of Procedure
1-4-1-3: Infraction Procedure
1-4-1-4: Enforcement
1-4-1-5: Civil Infractions; Security Deposits; Classifications
1-4-2: Restitution
1-4-3: Application of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability of Officers
1-4-5: Contempt Before Municipal Court
1-4-6: Effect of Nonpayment of Fines, Restitution or Costs
1-4-1: CIVIL INFRACTIONS:
1-4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Code, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY INFRACTION: A. An offense against the City in the form of a violation of
this Code that shall be handled in accordance with the procedures established
by this Code. When an infraction is of a continuing nature, a separate
infraction will be deemed to occur on each calendar day the infraction
continues to exist and a separate violation may be filed for each infraction.
   B.   The only penalty to be imposed for an infraction is a monetary penalty
called a forfeiture. The amount of the forfeiture is as set forth in this Code.
PERSON: Includes any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association of
persons. (Ord. 413, 2-7-78)
1-4-1-2: PURPOSE OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   The procedures set forth in this Code are designed to handle violations
of this Code as civil infractions and are established pursuant to the home rule
powers granted the City by the Oregon Constitution and the City Charter.
   B.   A civil infraction procedure has been established for the purpose of
decriminalizing penalties for violations of this Code and for the purpose of
providing a convenient and practical form for the civil hearing and
determination of cases arising out of said violations. (Ord. 413, 2-7-78)
1-4-1-3: INFRACTION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Reporting: All reports of infractions covered by this Code will be made
to the City Recorder, City Treasurer or Heppner police.
   B.   Responsible Party to be Noticed or Cited: If the City Recorder or other
appropriate City official reasonably believes an infraction has occurred, he or
she may cause to be issued either a notice or citation. Notice may be sent in
these cases where the infraction is minor and easily correctable and there is
no damage to persons or property created by the infraction. In any cases where
there is an immediate damage to persons or property or a potential for
immediate damage to persons or property, a citation shall be issued. A citation
may also issue without prior notice if the same party has committed the same or
similar infraction in the past.
   C.   Prior Written Notice: When an infraction of a City ordinance covered by
this procedure is brought to the attention of the City Recorder, City Treasurer
or other City official, the responsible party may be given written notice of
the infraction and allowed a specified length of time in which the infraction
may be remedied before further action is taken. The notice, if given, shall be
sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall
contain the following information:
      1.   Sufficient description of the activity in violation to identify the
infraction with the recipient of the notice.
      2.   A statement that the activity in question has been found to be an
infraction with a brief and concise description of the nature of the
infraction.
      3.   A statement of the action required to remedy the infraction and a
date by which remedy must be completed or begun.
      4.   A statement advising that if the required abatement is not completed
or commenced within a time specified, a civil complaint will be filed in the
City Municipal Court, a summons will be issued for the person to appear to
answer the complaint and a forfeiture as scheduled by this Code could be
imposed.
      5.   Signature of the City Recorder, City Treasurer or Heppner police
officer.
   D.   Infraction Citation:
      1.   If the recipient of a prior notice fails to comply with the
provisions set forth therein, or if the issuance of an immediate citation is
appropriate, an infraction citation signed by the City Recorder or other City
official shall be filed with the Municipal Court charging a civil infraction
and setting a date for appearance before the Municipal Court to answer said
complaint. The citation shall be served on the party deemed responsible by the
City Recorder or City official who signed the citation.
      2.   The City Recorder shall prescribe the form of the infraction
citation, but it shall consist of at least two (2) parts. Additional parts may
be inserted for administrative purposes by those charged with the enforcement
of this Code. The required parts are:
         a.   The citation.
         b.   The summons.
      3.   The citation shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name of the court and a citation number.
         b.   The name of the person cited.
         c.   The infraction with which the person is charged, the date, time
and place the infraction occurred or if the infraction is of a continuing
nature, the date, time and place the infraction was observed, the date on which
the citation was issued and the name of the complainant.
         d.   The signature of the complainant or other City official.
         e.   The scheduled forfeiture for the alleged infraction.
         f.   The time and place at which the person cited is to appear in
Court.
         g.   Whether a prior written notice was issued to the cited person for
the same infraction.
      4.   The citation shall contain a form of verification by the City
Recorder or other City official that he/she swears that he/she has reasonable
grounds to believe, and does believe, that the person cited committed the
infraction.
      5.   The summons shall also contain notice to the person cited that the
citation will be filed in the Municipal Court of the City.
   E.   Summons: If the cited person resides within the territorial
jurisdiction of the City, service shall be personal; otherwise, service shall
be by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
   F.   Answer:
      1.   A person who receives a citation and summons for an infraction shall
answer such summons by personally appearing to answer at the time and place
specified therein; except, an answer may be made by mail or personal delivery
within twenty (20) days of the date of the receipt of the summons as provided
in subsections F2 and F3 of this Section.
      2.   If a person alleged to have committed an infraction admits to the
infraction, he may complete the appropriate answer on the back of each summons
and forward the summons to the Municipal Court. A check or money order in the
amount of the forfeiture for the infraction alleged in the citation shall be
submitted with the answer. (Ord. 413, 2-7-78)
      3.   If the person alleged to have committed the infraction denies all or
part of the infraction, such person may request a hearing by completing the
appropriate answer on the back of the summons and forwarding the summons,
together with a security deposit as specified in Section
1-4-1-5. Upon receipt, the answer shall be entered and a hearing date
established by the Municipal Court. The Municipal Court shall notify the person
alleged to have committed the infraction by return mail of the date of the
hearing. Such notice shall be sent by regular first class mail. The security
received shall be returned upon appearance of the person alleged to have
committed the infraction, except as otherwise provided in this Code. Security
deposit may be waived in all or in part for good cause shown and at the
discretion of the Municipal Court. Application for waiver shall be in writing.
The person alleged to have committed the infraction shall set forth the reason
for requesting the waiver and certify the person alleged to have committed the
infraction will attend the hearing when scheduled. (Ord. 413, 2-7-78; amd. Ord.
438, 7-7-80)
      4.   The Court may, in any case, after notice, require the cited person
to appear for a hearing.
   G.   Hearing:
      1.   Every hearing to determine whether an infraction has occurred shall
be held before the Municipal Court without a jury.
      2.   A hearing shall be limited to production of evidence only on the
infraction alleged in the complaint.
         a.   Oral Evidence: Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
         b.   Hearsay Evidence: Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining direct evidence. It shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this State.
         c.   Admissibility of Evidence: Any relevant evidence shall be
admitted if it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of their own affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which may make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions and courts of
competent jurisdiction in this State.
         d.   Exclusion of Evidence: Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
         e.   The defendant shall have the right to present evidence and
witnesses in his favor, to cross-examine witnesses who testify against him and
to submit rebuttal evidence.
      3.   If the person alleged to have committed the infraction desires that
witnesses be ordered to appear by subpoena, such person must so request in
writing from the Court at the time the answer is returned at any time up to ten
(10) days prior to the scheduled hearing. A thirty dollar ($30.00) deposit for
each witness shall accompany the request to cover statutory witness fees and
mileage. Such deposit may be refunded, if the witness cost is less than the
amount deposited. Subject to the same ten (10) day limitation, the complaining
official or City Attorney, as appropriate, may also request of the Court that
certain witnesses be ordered to appear by subpoena. If a forfeiture is declared
in the final order, the order shall also provide that the person ordered to
forfeit shall pay witness fees for those persons subpoenaed on behalf of the
complaining official and the City Attorney.
      4.   The defendant may be represented by counsel, but counsel shall not
be provided by public expense. If defense counsel is to appear, a written
notice shall be provided to the Municipal Court ten (10) days prior to the
hearing date.
      5.   The City shall have the burden of proving the alleged ordinance
infraction by preponderance of the evidence.
      6.   Order Entered in Municipal Court:
         a.   After due consideration of the evidence and arguments presented
at the hearing, the Court shall determine whether the infraction, as alleged in
the complaint, has been established. When the infraction has not been
established, an order dismissing the complaint shall be entered in Municipal
Court records and the security deposit, if any has been submitted, shall be
returned to the person named in the infraction.
         b.   When a determination is made that an infraction has been
established, or if an answer admitting the infraction has been received, an
appropriate order shall be entered in the Municipal Court records. A copy of
the order shall be delivered to the person named in the order personally or by
mail. When an infraction has been determined established, the order shall
include a brief statement of the necessary findings and facts establishing the
infraction alleged.
      7.   Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, upon a finding that the
infraction has occurred, the City shall assess the forfeiture shown on the
schedule established in accordance with this chapter plus court costs.
      8.   There shall be no administrative appeal or legal review from a
determination by the Municipal Court of an infraction violation. However, each
person assessed a forfeiture under this section shall be advised, in writing
(to be delivered with the final order disposing of the matter), that even
though no direct right of appeal exists, it is possible that a writ of review
or other appropriate legal relief might be obtained. (Ord. 413, 2-7-1978)
1-4-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If a person fails to answer a summons or appear at a scheduled hearing
as provided herein, a default judgment shall be entered for the scheduled
forfeiture applicable to the charged infraction. Any monies paid as a security
deposit shall be credited toward the amount of the default judgment entered.
(Ord. 438, 7-7-1980)
   B.   All forfeitures are payable upon receipt of the final order declaring
the forfeiture.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall limit the City from revoking or denying
any City license or permit held or desired by a person owing a forfeiture to
the City. (Ord. 418, 2-7-1978)
1-4-1-5: CIVIL INFRACTIONS; SECURITY DEPOSITS; CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   The penalty for committing a civil infraction is a fine. The law
creating an infraction may impose other penalties in addition to a fine, but
may not impose a term of imprisonment.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided by this Code, the maximum fine for an
infraction committed by an individual is:
      1.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a Class A infraction.
      2.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a Class B infraction.
      3.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a Class C infraction.
      4.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a Class D infraction.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the presumptive fines for
infractions are:
      1.   Four hundred forty dollars ($440.00) for a Class A infraction;
      2.   Two hundred sixty five dollars ($265.00) for a Class B infraction;
      3.   One hundred sixty five dollars ($165.00) for a Class C infraction;
and
      4.   One hundred fifteen dollars ($115.00) for a Class D infraction.
   D.   For any infraction described in this Code that is designated as an
infraction but does not specify a classification of infraction, the
unclassified infraction is a Class B infraction.
   E.   Security deposits to request hearing shall be the same amount as the
presumptive fine for the infraction.
   F.   The infraction fees set forth in this section match the violation fines
set forth in Oregon Revised Statutes 153.018 and 153.019 as enacted at the time
of passage of this section. The infraction amounts in this section shall be
revised to match the corresponding classification fee amounts of the two (2)
statutes as those statutes are revised and amended without any further action
by the Council. (Ord. 579-17, 5-8-2017)
1-4-2: RESTITUTION:
The Municipal Judge may order any person convicted of violation of any
provision of this Code who, while in violation of this Code, causes another
person monetary or physical injury, to pay restitution to the injured party.
Restitution may be ordered in addition to any other civil fines set forth in
this Code. (1995 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalties provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though they were a part of each and every
separate section. A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day
such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
   B.   In all cases where the same violation is subject to a civil fine or is
created by different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer
may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be
had against the same person for the same violation; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or omission to do any act constitutes a
violation of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no civil
fine specifically declared for such violation, the general penalty provision of
this chapter shall apply. (1995 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any civil
fine provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of the
Council to impose such civil fine on such officer or employee is specifically
and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1995 Code)
1-4-5: CONTEMPT BEFORE MUNICIPAL COURT:
Any person who shall be guilty of contempt of the Municipal Court, by acting in
a contemptuous or disorderly manner before the Municipal Judge of the City
while said Municipal Judge is holding court or any session thereof, or by
disobeying the orders of such court lawfully made, shall be punished by a civil
fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and in default of the payment of such fine, such person so guilty of
contempt shall be imprisoned until such civil fine is paid. (1995 Code)
1-4-6: EFFECT OF NONPAYMENT OF FINES, RESTITUTION OR COSTS:
   A.   When a defendant sentenced to pay a civil fine or to make restitution
defaults in the payment thereof or of any installment, the court, on motion of
the City Attorney or upon its own motion, may require him to show cause why his
default should not be treated as contempt of court, and may issue a show cause
citation or a warrant of arrest for his appearance.
   B.   Unless the defendant shows that his default was not attributable to an
intentional refusal to obey the order of the court or to a failure on his part
to make a good faith effort to make the payment, the court may find that his
default constitutes contempt and may order him committed until the civil fine
or the restitution, or a specified part thereof, is paid.
   C.   When a civil fine or an order of restitution is imposed on a
corporation or unincorporated association, it is the duty of the person
authorized to make disbursement from the assets of the corporation or
association to pay the civil fine or make the restitution from those assets,
and his failure to do so may be held to be contempt unless he makes the showing
required in subsection B of this section.
   D.   The term of imprisonment for contempt for nonpayment of fines or
failure to make restitution shall be set forth in the commitment order, and
shall not exceed one (1) day for each twenty five dollars ($25.00) of the civil
fine or restitution, thirty (30) days if the civil fine or order of restitution
was imposed upon conviction of a violation or one (1) year in any other case,
whichever is the shorter period. A person committed for nonpayment of a civil
fine or failure to make restitution shall be given credit toward payment for
each day of imprisonment at the rate specified in the commitment order.
   E.   If it appears to the satisfaction of the court that the default in the
payment of a civil fine or restitution is not contempt, the court may enter an
order allowing the defendant additional time for payment, reducing the amount
thereof or of each installment or revoking the civil fine or order of
restitution or the unpaid portion thereof in whole or in part.
   F.   A default in the payment of a civil fine or costs or failure to make
restitution or any installment thereof may be collected by any means authorized
by law for the enforcement of a judgment. The levy of execution for the
collection of a civil fine or restitution shall not discharge a defendant
committed to imprisonment for contempt until the amount of the civil fine or
restitution has actually been collected. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Council Election; Positions; Terms
1-5-1-1: Nominating Procedures For Elected Officials
1-5-2: Council Meetings
1-5-3: Mayor, Salary
 
Notes
1 1. See city charter.
1-5-1: COUNCIL ELECTION; POSITIONS; TERMS:
   A.   Positions And Terms: In accordance with section 8 of the Heppner city
charter, the following council positions shall be held for the following terms
as of the effective date hereof:
 
Position Term
   One1-1-1993 to 12-31-1996
   Two1-1-1993 to 12-31-1996
   Thr1-1-1993 to 12-31-1996
   Fou1-1-1991 to 12-31-1994
   Fiv1-1-1991 to 12-31-1994
   Six1-1-1991 to 12-31-1994
 
The terms listed herein and all subsequent terms shall, upon expiration, be
replaced with new terms of the same duration.
   B.   Election By Position: Councilors are elected by position numbers, one
through six, as listed in subsection A of this section. A person seeking office
on the council shall specify which council position he/she is seeking by
number. A person may run for no more than a single council position during any
one election. The person receiving the highest number of votes for each
position shall be elected. Elections for council positions shall be held only
at November general elections.
   C.   Filling Vacancy: In accordance with section 13 of the Heppner charter,
a councilor appointed to fill a vacancy shall run for election at the next
scheduled November general election regardless of the expiration date of the
term. The term of office for a member elected to fill a vacant council position
shall be the remainder of the term only. (Ord. 500-93, 12-13-1993; amd. 1995
Code)
1-5-1-1: NOMINATING PROCEDURES FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   State Statutory Nominations Procedure Adopted: Except as provided in
this section or the city of Heppner charter, the method for nominating a person
for city elected office shall be as set forth in Oregon Revised Statutes
chapter 249 and all further amendments thereto.
   B.   Councilors Elected At The November General Election: Elections for city
councilors shall be held every two (2) years at the November general election
date as established in Oregon Revised Statutes 254.056(1) and all further
amendments thereto. There shall be no primary runoff elections for councilors.
The candidate receiving the highest number of votes at the November general
elections for a council position shall be elected to that position.
   C.   City Manager Is The Chief City Elections Officer: The city manager
shall be the chief city elections officer. All nominating petitions or
declarations of candidacy shall be filed with the city manager. (Ord. 523-98,
6-8-1998)
1-5-2: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular: Regular meetings of the city council shall be held on the
second Monday of each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. in the
council chambers of the city hall, except when the second Monday of each month
is a legal holiday, and then the city council shall meet on the day following
such holiday at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be called at any
time by the mayor or by three (3) members of the city council, by written
notice served upon each member of the council at least three (3) hours before
the time specified for the proposed meeting and stating the purpose for the
calling of such meeting. All meetings of the council, whether stated or
special, shall be public. (Ord. 477, 12-4-1989; amd. 1995 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR, SALARY:
The salary of the mayor shall be that prescribed by the city council of the
city. (Ord. 370, 11-6-1967)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Bonds of Officers
1-6-2: Salaries
1-6-3: City Treasurer Duties; City Funds
1-6-1: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Bonds Required; Amounts: Before assuming the duties of their respective
offices, the following officers shall make, execute and deliver to the City
bonds in the following penal sums, conditioned that such officers will well and
faithfully perform the duties of such offices and will truthfully account to
the City for all sums of money coming into their possession by virtue of such
offices, which bonds shall be approved by the Mayor and filed with the City
Recorder, except for the bond of the Recorder which shall be filed with the
Mayor:
 
Chief of Police $1,000.00
City Recorder   1,000.00
City Treasurer  5,000.00
 
   B.   Executed by Sureties: Each of said bonds shall be executed by two (2)
or more good and sufficient sureties who shall be residents and freeholders of
the City having the qualifications of bail upon arrest. In lieu of such
sureties, such bonds may be executed by an indemnity insurance company
organized and licensed to transact business in the State of Oregon.
   C.   Premiums Paid by City: If such bonds shall be executed by a surety
company, the premiums thereon shall be paid by the City in the same manner as
other claims against the City are paid. (Ord. 284, 2-5-40)
1-6-2: SALARIES 1 :
The Chief of Police, City Recorder and City Treasurer shall receive such
salaries as shall be prescribed by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 284,
2-5-40)
 
Notes
1 1. See City Charter §10.
1-6-3: CITY TREASURER DUTIES; CITY FUNDS 1 :
   A.   Custodian of City Funds: The Treasurer shall be custodian of all funds
of the City from whatever source derived and shall keep the same in conformity
with the provisions of ORS chapter 295, "Depositories of Public Funds and
Securities". The Treasurer shall keep an account for the general funds and a
separate account for each special fund which has been or may hereafter be
created for any specific object. When a warrant is drawn on any particular
fund, it shall be paid out of such fund upon presentation of payment. No
warrants or orders shall be paid unless signed by the duly authorized officials
of the City and unless such warrants specifically designate the funds upon
which they are drawn.
   B.   Warrants Not Paid for Lack of Money: Whenever a warrant is presented
and cannot be paid for lack of money in the fund upon which warrant is drawn,
it shall be the duty of the Treasurer to endorse upon said warrant "Not paid
for want of funds". Such warrant shall thereupon draw interest at the rate of
four percent (4%) per annum until such warrant shall have been called for
payment as prescribed in subsection D of this Section. It shall be the duty of
the City Treasurer to enter in a separate book a record of all warrants
presented but not paid for want of funds. Such register shall show the date and
the number of the warrant, the name of the claimant, the fund upon which the
warrant is drawn, and the date of endorsement by the Treasurer.
   C.   Authorization to Pay Warrants; Signatures: No warrants shall be drawn
except upon direction of the City Council. All warrants so authorized shall be
signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Recorder.
   D.   Calling in Outstanding Warrants: When there are any outstanding
warrants against a City fund which have been presented but have not been paid
for want of funds and there exists a sum in excess of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) in any such fund, the Treasurer shall publish one notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City calling in order of registration
such outstanding warrants as he may have funds on hand to pay. Such notice
shall describe by number the warrants called, shall designate the date after
which presentation for payment may be made, and shall state from the date so
designated that interest on any such warrants shall cease. The Treasurer shall
not allow interest on any such warrants for any period of time subsequent to
the payment date designated in such notice.
   E.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein prescribed, the
City Treasurer shall perform all of the duties required by the City Charter,
ordinances of the City and such additional duties as may be required from time
to time by the City Council. (Ord. 285, 2-5-40)
 
Notes
1 2. See City Charter §44.
CHAPTER 7
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment and Term; Bond and Salary
1-7-2: Experience and Training
1-7-3: Qualifications for Employment; Knowledge and Ability
1-7-4: Supervision
1-7-5: Duties
1-7-6: Expenditure of Funds; Majority Vote of Council
1-7-7: Removal from Office
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM; BOND AND SALARY:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Term: There is hereby created the office
of City Manager, which office shall be filled by the appointment of the Mayor
and approved by a majority of the City Council. The City Manager shall be
chosen without regard to political considerations and solely with reference to
his/her executive and administrative qualifications. The City Manager shall be
appointed for an indefinite term.
   B.   Bond Required: Before taking office, the City Manager shall give a
corporate surety bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his/her duties. The premium of the
bond shall be paid by the City.
   C.   Vacancy; Temporary Appointment: Any vacancy in the office of City
Manager shall be filled temporarily by appointment of the Mayor, which
appointment shall not last for more than four (4) months after the date of the
temporary appointment. The temporary appointment may be made permanent upon
approval of the Mayor and the majority of the City Council.
   D.   Chief Administrative Officer: The City Manager shall serve as chief
administrative officer of the City, directing and coordinating the activities
of all City departments and implementing policy as established by the City
Council.
   E.   Salary: The salary of the City Manager shall be such sum as shall be,
from time to time, fixed and determined by the City Council. (Ord. 482, 3-11-
91)
1-7-2: EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING:
   A.   The following experience and training is preferred:
      1.   Three (3) years of experience in municipal government
administration, preferable as an assistant City Manager or department head.
      2.   Graduation from a four (4) year college or university with major
course work in public administration or related field. A Master's degree in
public administration or related field is desirable but not required.
   B.   Any satisfactory equivalent combination of experience and training may
substitute for the above. (Ord. 482, 3-11-91)
1-7-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT; KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY:
The City Manager shall have or be able to quickly acquire:
   A.   Thorough knowledge of municipal government organization, powers,
functions and relationships with other governmental jurisdictions;
   B.   Thorough knowledge of the principles and practices of public budgeting,
finance and personnel management;
   C.   Reasonable knowledge of materials, methods and techniques used in the
construction and maintenance of streets, sewers, parks, water facilities and
related projects;
   D.   Reasonable knowledge of the principles and practices of City
engineering;
   E.   Reasonable knowledge of City planning principles and methods;
   F.   Considerable ability and skill in establishing and maintaining
cooperative and harmonious working relationships with City legislative and
administrative officials and employees, representatives of business and
government organizations and the general public;
   G.   Ability to develop and prepare effective and complete correspondence
and administrative reports;
   H.   Ability to speak effectively in front of various groups;
   I.   Ability to appraise the quality of varied Municipal services through
inspection and review of work reports and to develop and effectively implement
improvements;
   J.   Ability to analyze complex problems and conduct necessary research in
solving them;
   K.   Ability to write clear and concise grant proposals, reports, memoranda,
directives and general correspondence;
   L.   Ability to comprehend and interpret laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations;
   M.   Ability to adapt to and work within the prevailing political and social
environment;
   N.   Reside within nine (9) miles radius of the City;
   O.   Have a working knowledge of computer programs for City bookkeeping.
(Ord. 482, 3-11-91)
1-7-4: SUPERVISION:
   A.   Supervision Received: The City Manager shall work under the general
direction of the Mayor and City Council which establishes the policies and
ordinances which the City Manager must implement and administer.
   B.   Supervision Exercised: The City Manager shall exercise direct or
delegated supervision over all employees of the City including department heads
and directly supervises the Public Works Director, Police Chief, Volunteer Fire
Chief, City Recorder and City Treasurer. (Ord. 482, 3-11-91)
1-7-5: DUTIES:
The City Manager may be called upon to do any of the following and these
examples do not include all the tasks which he/she may be expected to perform:
   A.   Meet with the public to provide information and assistance regarding
City ordinances, policies, planning and zoning matters;
   B.   Receive private citizen questions and complaints on a wide variety of
issues and attempt to resolve problems to the satisfaction of all parties;
   C.   Supervise the preparation of the annual budget, review and approve
departmental needs and estimates and transmit a budget to the Budget Committee
for review and final action;
   D.   Plan, give general directions and review the services rendered by the
various departments;
   E.   Meet with the City Council in regular and special meetings, give
information and transmit special or regular reports covering various problems
of Municipal operations and advise Councilors in their deliberations on policy
or legislative matters;
   F.   Confer with department heads and others on various operating and
administrative problems, review departmental plans, programs and procedures and
suggest new innovations or methods to improve the standard of services rendered
by the City;
   G.   Serve as purchasing and contracting agent for the City and prepare
grant applications;
   H.   Meet with vendors, contractors, salesmen and consultants and be
responsible for the efficient expenditure of City funds;
   I.   Meet with representatives of other cities, County and other
governmental agencies on various problems involved in the coordination of City
services and agreements with those of other governmental units;
   J.   Lobby at State and local levels at the direction of the Mayor and City
Council on matters of community import;
   K.   Attend Planning Commission meetings and meetings of special purpose and
provide staff assistance where requested;
   L.   Consult and advise the Mayor on the appointment and dismissal of all
City employees. For positions below the department head level, the department
head shall also be consulted. All personnel decisions will be made according to
the personnel policy with which the City Manager will be thoroughly familiar
and primary interpreter;
   M.   Confer with the City Attorney and retained engineer concerning matters
affecting the City's operation where their expertise is necessary;
   N.   Coordinate with the City Recorder and City Treasurer on financial
matters brought before the City Council;
   O.   Attend meetings as a representative of the City; and
   P.   Conduct correspondence on various public contact problems and prepare
or supervise the preparation of informative materials for publication. (Ord.
482, 3-11-91)
1-7-6: EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS; MAJORITY VOTE OF COUNCIL:
No individual member of the City Council may, in any manner, directly or
indirectly, require the City Manager to undertake projects requiring the
expenditure of City funds or materials. The City Manager shall undertake such
projects only upon majority vote of the City Council. (Ord. 482, 3-11-91)
1-7-7: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
   A.   Removal or Resignation: The City Manager may be removed from office by
the Mayor with the consent of the majority of the City Council upon thirty (30)
days' written notice setting forth the reasons for removal. The City Manager
shall also give the City Council thirty (30) days' written notice of
resignation from the office.
   B.   Request for Hearing: If removal from office is considered by the City
Manager to be unfair, he/she may request, in writing, within ten (10) days'
receipt of notice, and shall be granted, a hearing before the City Council, at
which hearing he/she may present information upon which he/she has based his/
her judgment of unfair treatment. After hearing the information, the City
Council may uphold the removal or vote to reinstate. If the period of
deliberation extends beyond thirty (30) days from the time of original notice
of removal, the City Manager will receive all compensation normally due until
the end of deliberations. (Ord. 482, 3-11-91)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL JUDGE AND MUNICIPAL COURT 1
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created
1-8-2: Pro Tempore Municipal Judge
1-8-3: Qualifications
1-8-4: Conduct of Trial
1-8-5: Power of Municipal Judge
 
Notes
1 1. See City Charter §§9 and 42; also Chapter 4 of this Title.
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court of the City is hereby
created. The holder of the office shall be the City Recorder or other competent
individual appointed by the City Council. (Ord. 400, 5-19-76; 1995 Code)
1-8-2: PRO TEMPORE MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
The office of Pro Tempore Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court of the City
shall be held by the following City officers in the following order: first the
Mayor, then if he is unavailable, the president of the Council, and if he is
unavailable then the various members of the City Council, starting with the
Councilor having the longest time of service sitting upon the City Council. The
officers shall act only when the Municipal Judge is unable to perform his
duties by reason of absence from the City, illness, prejudice, vacations or
disqualification by reason of knowledge or relationship to the cause before
him. (Ord. 400, 5-19-76)
1-8-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The holders of the office of Municipal and Pro Tempore Municipal Judge shall be
residents of the City and over the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 400, 5-
19-76)
1-8-4: CONDUCT OF TRIAL:
Trials shall be conducted as herein provided, and all matters not specifically
provided for herein shall be governed by the applicable statutes of the State
of Oregon for justice of the peace courts. The rules of evidence shall be the
same as in State courts and shall include applicable statutes of the State of
Oregon regarding the instruction or admission of evidence. (Ord. 400, 5-19-76)
1-8-5: POWER OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
The Judge shall have all inherent and statutory powers and duties of the
Justice of the Peace within the jurisdictional limits of the City. The Chief of
Police shall assist the judge in the serving of subpoenas, notices of jury duty
and such other orders of the Court necessary for the proper conduct thereof.
The Judge may, by order, designate a member or members of the Police Department
to act as a clerk of the Court, with authority to accept bail in accordance
with a minimum bail schedule established by the Court. The Judge shall be
responsible for the keeping of such dockets and accounts necessary to properly
record all proceedings of the Municipal Court. (Ord. 400, 5-19-76; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 9
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-9-1: State Law Adopted by Reference
1-9-2: Charter Amendment; Resolution to Voters
1-9-3: Ballot Title Determination
1-9-4: Publication of Ballot Title and Measure
1-9-5: Canvassing Votes
1-9-6: Filing Petitions Against
1-9-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The City adopts the initiative and referendum process as set forth in ORS
250.255 et seq. as it currently exists or as modified in the future. (1995
Code)
1-9-2: CHARTER AMENDMENT; RESOLUTION TO VOTERS:
   A.   Filing of Resolution: An amendment to the Charter of the City may be
proposed and submitted to the legal voters by resolution of the City Council
without an initiative petition; said resolution shall be filed with the City
Recorder for submission not later than twenty (20) days before the election at
which it is to be voted upon and no amendment of the Charter shall be effective
until it is approved by a majority of the votes cast thereon by the legal
voters of the City.
   B.   Date of Election Stated: Where an amendment to the Charter of the City
may be proposed and submitted to the legal voters thereof by resolution of the
City Council without an initiative petition, the said resolution shall therein
state the date of the regular Municipal election or the day of a special
election at which said resolution will be submitted to be voted on and shall
call and make provision for said election. (Ord. 314A, 4-7-47)
1-9-3: BALLOT TITLE DETERMINATION:
Charter amendments submitted by the City Council without initiative petition
shall be designated "Charter amendments submitted to the voters by the City
Council". Provided, however, that when Charter amendments are to be submitted
to the voters by resolution of the Council as in this Chapter provided, the
Council may, in said resolution, provide for a ballot title for the measure so
to be submitted and in the event of such provision being made by the Council,
the hereinabove provisions of this Section relative to the filing of the
measure with the City Attorney, the preparation by said Attorney of a ballot
title therefor and the appeal to the Council from the ballot title so prepared
shall not apply. (Ord. 314A, 4-7-47; 1995 Code)
1-9-4: PUBLICATION OF BALLOT TITLE AND MEASURE:
Where a special election is called either on petition for proposed ordinances
or Charter amendments by the initiative or for submitting ordinances by the
referendum or Charter amendments proposed by the Council, the City Recorder
shall publish such proposed Charter amendment with the ballot title and number,
in full, in a newspaper of general circulation within the City to be designated
by the Council, once each week for two (2) successive weeks, the first
publication to be not less than fifteen (15) days before the special election
at which said proposed ordinance, referendum measure or Charter amendment is to
be voted on and also post notice of election in six (6) public places in the
City at least ten (10) days prior to such election, which posted notice shall
state the time, place and purposes of the election, but need not contain the
full amendment. A like rule as to publication and posting shall be observed
where Charter amendments are to be submitted at the regular election. (Ord.
314A, 4-7-47; 1995 Code)
1-9-5: CANVASSING VOTES:
The votes on Charter amendments shall be counted, canvassed and returned as
votes for candidates are counted, canvassed and returned. (Ord. 314A, 4-7-47;
1995 Code)
1-9-6: FILING PETITIONS AGAINST:
Where referendum petitions shall be signed by the required number of legal
voters against any ordinances passed by the City Council, same shall be filed
with the Recorder within thirty (30) days after the passage and approval of the
ordinance in question. (Ord. 314A, 4-7-47; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Reserve Fund
1-10-2: Street Vacation Petition Fee
1-10-3: Council Authority To Set Fees, Charges And Penalties
1-10-1: RESERVE FUND:
   A.   Purpose: The city has established a reserve fund for the purpose of
financing the cost of services, projects, property and equipment as allowed by
Oregon Revised Statutes 280.050. The purpose of this section is to continue the
existence of the municipal reserve fund in accordance with Oregon Revised
Statutes 294.525.
   B.   Reserve Fund: The reserve fund shall be known as the "reserve fund",
hereinafter referred to as the "fund". The city administrator shall be
custodian of the fund. In accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 294.525, not
less frequently than every tenth anniversary of the date upon which the fund is
established, the governing body of the city of Heppner shall review the fund
and determine whether the fund will be continued or abolished. If the fund is
to be abolished, it shall be done so in pursuance to Oregon Revised Statutes
294.525. In accordance to Oregon Revised Statutes 280.050, the city of Heppner
specifies the following purposes for the fund: (Ord. 535-02, 6-10-2002)
Fire equipment
Police equipment
Water system repair and replacement
Sewer system repair and replacement
Street equipment
Footpaths and bikeways
Fleet repair and replacement
OEDD downtown loan payment grant disbursements
City hall equipment and improvements
Sidewalk construction and reconstruction
Utility deposits
(Ord. 535-02, 6-10-2002; amd. Ord. 564-08, 6-9-2008)
   C.   Account Segregation: The fund shall be organized using a strict
accounting segregation among the several specified purposes. Each specified
purpose, as listed in subsection B of this section, shall be maintained within
a separate bookkeeping account. Such accounting segregation shall maintain the
purposes of each fund established under this section, and provide for the
proportionate distribution of accrued interest on account balances to be
credited to each account within the fund. Such distribution of accrued interest
shall be accommodated in each annual budget through a separate interest revenue
line item established for the specified purpose of each account within the
fund. At the end of each budget year, the ending balance of each account shall
be carried forward to the new budget year and allotted to at least one
expenditure line item in the fund for the specified purposes of that account.
Following the listing of the resources and expenditures of the fund in the
annual budget, the city administrator shall attach a "reserve fund account
detail report" demonstrating the segregation of each account for the prior
three (3) budget years and the current year. The report shall provide all
revenue and expenditure figures for those periods.
   D.   Statement Of No Change To Prior Acts: Nothing in this section shall be
construed to change or alter any resolution, or ordinance previously adopted by
the city of Heppner in establishing any of the reserve funds established by
this section. (Ord. 535-02, 6-10-2002)
1-10-2: STREET VACATION PETITION FEE:
There shall be collected by the city the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
upon the filing of any petition or application for the purpose of vacating any
street or alley within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 333, 6-2-1952;
amd. 1995 Code)
1-10-3: COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO SET FEES, CHARGES AND PENALTIES:
All fees, charges and penalties contained within this code may be periodically
set and revised by ordinance or resolution of the city council. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CITY SEAL AND LOGO
SECTION:
1-11-1: City Seal
1-11-2: City Logo
1-11-3: Exhibits
1-11-1: CITY SEAL:
The seal to be used and known as the Seal of the City shall be a shamrock
design surrounded by two (2) square shaped frames having rounded corners. The
words "City of Heppner, Oregon", and the City's year of incorporation, "1887",
shall appear in a space between the two (2) square frames, as shown in Exhibit
A of Section
1-11-3 of this Chapter. The Seal shall be forged as a metal stamp and shall be
sized appropriately for making legal imprints. (Ord. 504-94, 3-14-94)
1-11-2: CITY LOGO:
The logo to be used and known as the Logo of the City of Heppner shall be a
shamrock design surrounded by a square shaped frame having rounded corners, as
shown in Exhibit B of Section
1-11-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 504-94, 3-14-94)
1-11-3: EXHIBITS:
See following pages for the City Seal (Exhibit A) and City Logo (Exhibit B).
   EXHIBIT A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/402250a5809b2b3f4c92c70e31b5e7510b0ac9a0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1025.gif]
 
   City Seal
   EXHIBIT B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/402250a5809b2b3f4c92c70e31b5e7510b0ac9a0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1027.gif]
 
   City Logo
(Ord. 504, 3-14-94)
CHAPTER 12
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose Of The Volunteer Fire Department
1-12-2: Chief Of The Volunteer Fire Department
1-12-3: Duties Of The Chief
1-12-4: Personnel
1-12-5: Department Rules
1-12-6: Organizational Communications
1-12-7: Investigation Of Fires
1-12-8: Duty Of Spectators
1-12-9: Compensation
1-12-1: PURPOSE OF THE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT:
The Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible for the provision of fire
protection services within the City and within any other service areas that
have contracted with the City for fire protection services. The Volunteer Fire
Department, and the members thereof, shall function to prevent and extinguish
accidental or destructive fires and respond to and provide assistance at
accident scenes occurring within the City or any contracted service area, and
enforce all Code provisions relating to fire hazards. (Ord. 511-95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-2: CHIEF OF THE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT:
The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department (Fire Chief) shall be a department
head within the meaning of the City's Personnel Policy and shall act within the
chain of command of the City. He shall be appointed by the Mayor, in
consultation with the City Manager, and such appointment shall obtain
ratification by the City Council to be confirmed. (Ord. 511-95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-3: DUTIES OF THE CHIEF:
   A.   Apparatus; Activities; Conduct: The Fire Chief shall be responsible for
the care of the apparatus and the conduct of the members. The Chief shall keep
such records and make such reports pertaining to the activities of the
Department as may be required by the City Manager, Mayor, or City Council.
   B.   Command: The Fire Chief shall be in charge of all members of the
Department and all apparatus, and all firefighters shall observe the orders of
the Chief. In the absence of the Chief, an assistant chief shall fully assume
the duties of the Chief and shall have full command authority. The Chief shall
appoint a team of assistant chiefs and shall establish a clear succession of
command that shall be invoked in his absence.
   C.   Training: The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the training needs of
Department members. (Ord. 511-95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-4: PERSONNEL:
Recruitment of new volunteer members shall be accomplished through a formal
process. The Fire Chief, in consultation with the members of the Department and
the City Manager, shall establish written standards and criteria for the
recruitment of members. A recruitment committee, appointed by the Chief from
the membership of the Department shall formally interview candidates for
recruitment prior to their admission into membership. Admission shall be
granted only to those candidates meeting the standards and criteria for
recruitment. The recruitment committee shall be the judge as to whether
candidates meet the written standards and criteria for recruitment. (Ord. 511-
95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-5: DEPARTMENT RULES:
The members of the Department may adopt rules for the conduct of departmental
activities as deemed appropriate by the membership providing that no such rules
will conflict with the provisions of this Chapter. All such rules shall be
reviewed by the City Manager. (Ord. 511-95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-6: ORGANIZATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS:
In order to facilitate continuous communications within the City organization
the Mayor, one City Councilor, the City Manager, Fire Chief and five (5)
members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall serve on the Fire Department
Advisory Committee as set forth in Title 2, Chapter 5 of this Code. (Ord. 511-
95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-7: INVESTIGATION OF FIRES:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, or the Chief's representative, to
investigate the cause of any accidental or destructive fire occurring within
the City or any contracted service area in accordance with Oregon statutes; and
if there is reason to suspect a criminal act, or violation of a Code provision
in connection therewith, the Chief shall report the same to the appropriate law
enforcement agency. (Ord. 511-95, 3-13-1995)
1-12-8: DUTY OF SPECTATORS:
Spectators at fires shall observe the orders of the members of the Volunteer
Fire Department on duty with respect to keeping away from the scene, or the
handling or interference with the apparatus of the Department. (Ord. 511-95, 3-
13-1995)
1-12-9: COMPENSATION:
Volunteer members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall not be compensated for
services. The Fire Chief shall receive such compensation for services performed
as may be established in the annual budget of the City. (Ord. 511-95, 3-13-
1995)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC CONTRACTING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Application
1-13-3: Regulation By City Council
1-13-4: Model Rules
1-13-5: Authority Of Purchasing Manager
1-13-6: Definitions
1-13-7: Process For Approval Of Special Solicitation Methods And Exemptions
1-13-8: Solicitation Methods For Classes Of Contracts
1-13-9: Informal Solicitation Procedures
1-13-10: Use Of Brand Name Specifications For Public Improvements
1-13-11: Bid, Performance And Payment Bonds
1-13-12: Electronic Advertisement Of Public Improvement Contracts
1-13-13: Appeal Of Debarment Or Prequalification Decision
1-13-14: Competitive Sealed Bids Or Proposals
1-13-15: Content Of Advertisement
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: The provisions of this chapter and all rules adopted under
this chapter may be cited as the CITY OF HEPPNER'S PUBLIC CONTRACTING
REGULATIONS.
   B.   Purpose Of Public Contracting Regulations: It is the policy of the city
of Heppner in adopting the public contracting regulations to utilize public
contracting practices and methods that maximize the efficient use of public
resources and the purchasing power of public funds by:
      1.   Promoting impartial and open competition;
      2.   Using solicitation materials that are complete and contain a clear
statement of contract specifications and requirements; and
      3.   Taking full advantage of evolving procurement methods that suit the
contracting needs of the city of Heppner as they emerge within various
industries.
   C.   Interpretation Of Public Contracting Rules: In furtherance of the
purpose of the objectives set forth in subsection B of this section, it is the
city of Heppner's intent that the city of Heppner public contracting
regulations be interpreted to authorize the full use of all contracting powers
and authorities described in Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 279A, 279B and
279C. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-2: APPLICATION:
In accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 279A.025, the city of Heppner's
public contracting regulations and the Oregon public contracting code do not
apply to the following classes of contracts:
   A.   Between Governments: Contracts between the city of Heppner and a public
body or agency of the state of Oregon or its political subdivisions, or between
the city of Heppner and an agency of the federal government.
   B.   Grants: A grant contract is an agreement under which the city of
Heppner is either a grantee or a grantor of monies, property or other
assistance, including loans, loan guarantees, credit enhancements, gifts,
bequests, commodities or other assets, for the purpose of supporting or
stimulating a program or activity of the grantee and in which no substantial
involvement by the grantor is anticipated in the program or activity other than
involvement associated with monitoring compliance with the grant conditions.
   C.   Legal Witnesses And Consultants: Contracts for professional or expert
witnesses or consultants to provide services or testimony relating to existing
or potential litigation or legal matters in which the city of Heppner is or may
become interested.
   D.   Real Property: Acquisitions or disposals of real property or interests
in real property.
   E.   Oregon Corrections Enterprises: Procurements from an Oregon corrections
enterprises program.
   F.   Finance: Contracts, agreements or other documents entered into, issued
or established in connection with:
      1.   The incurring of debt by the city of Heppner, including any
associated contracts, agreements or other documents;
      2.   The making of program loans and similar extensions or advances of
funds, aid or assistance by the city of Heppner to a public or private person
for the purpose of carrying out, promoting or sustaining activities or programs
authorized by law other than for the construction of public works or public
improvements;
      3.   The investment of funds by the city of Heppner as authorized by law;
or
      4.   Banking, money management or other predominantly financial
transactions of the city of Heppner that, by their character, cannot
practically be established under the competitive contractor selection
procedures, based upon the findings of the purchasing manager.
   G.   Employee Benefits: Contracts for employee benefit plans as provided in
Oregon Revised Statutes 243.105(1), 243.125(4), 243.221, 243.275, 243.291,
243.303 and 243.565.
   H.   Exempt Under State Laws: Any other public contracting specifically
exempted from the Oregon public contracting code by another provision of law.
   I.   Federal Law: Except as otherwise expressly provided in Oregon Revised
Statutes 279C.800 to 279C.870, applicable federal statutes and regulations
govern when federal funds are involved and the federal statutes or regulations
conflict with any provision of the Oregon public contracting code or these
regulations, or require additional conditions in public contracts not
authorized by the Oregon public contracting code or these regulations. (Ord.
550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-3: REGULATION BY CITY COUNCIL:
Except as expressly delegated under these regulations, the Heppner city council
reserves to itself the exercise of all of the duties and authority of a
contract review board and a contracting agency under state law, including, but
not limited to, the power and authority to:
   A.   Solicitation Methods Applicable To Contracts: Approve the use of
contracting methods and exemptions from contracting methods for a specific
contract or certain classes of contracts;
   B.   Brand Name Specifications: Exempt the use of brand name specifications
for public improvement contracts;
   C.   Waiver Of Performance And Payment Bonds: Approve the partial or
complete waiver of the requirement for the delivery of a performance or payment
bond for construction of a public improvement;
   D.   Electronic Advertisement Of Public Improvement Contracts: Authorize the
use of electronic advertisements for contracts in lieu of publication in a
newspaper of general circulation;
   E.   Appeals: Hear properly filed appeals of Heppner city council's
determination of debarment, or concerning prequalification or contract award;
   F.   Rulemaking: Adopt contracting rules under Oregon Revised Statutes
279A.065 and 279A.070 including, without limitation, rules for the procurement,
management, disposal and control of goods, services, personal services and
public improvements;
   G.   Award: Award all contracts that exceed the authority of the purchasing
manager;
   H.   Delegation: Delegate to any employee or agent of city of Heppner any of
the duties or authority of a contracting agency; and
   I.   Mandatory Review Of Rules: Whenever the Oregon state legislative
assembly enacts laws that cause the attorney general to modify its model rules,
the Heppner city council shall review these regulations to determine whether
any modifications to the regulations need to be adopted to ensure compliance
with statutory changes. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-4: MODEL RULES:
Except as otherwise provided in city of Heppner's public contracting
regulations, the model rules adopted by the attorney general under Oregon
Revised Statutes 279A.065 do not apply to the contracts of the city of Heppner.
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-5: AUTHORITY OF PURCHASING MANAGER:
   A.   General Authority: The city administrator shall be the purchasing
manager and soliciting agent for the city of Heppner and is hereby authorized
to issue all solicitations and to award all city of Heppner contracts for which
the contract price does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The city
administrator is authorized to issue all solicitations and prepare bid
documents and advertisements for all contracts. However contracts estimated to
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be reviewed and awarded by the
city council. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the purchasing manager
may adopt and amend all solicitation materials, contracts and forms required or
permitted to be adopted by contracting agencies under the Oregon public
contracting code or otherwise convenient for the city of Heppner's contracting
needs. The purchasing manager or his or her designee shall hear all
solicitation and award protests.
   B.   Solicitation Preferences: When possible, the purchasing manager shall
use solicitation documents and evaluation criteria that:
      1.   Give preference to goods and services that have been manufactured or
produced in the state of Oregon if price, fitness, availability and quality are
otherwise equal; and
      2.   Give preference to goods that are certified to be made from recycled
products when such goods are available, can be substituted for nonrecycled
products without a loss in quality, and the cost of goods made from recycled
products is not significantly more than the cost of goods made from nonrecycled
products.
   C.   Delegation Of Purchasing Manager's Authority: Any of the
responsibilities or authorities of the purchasing manager under this chapter
may be delegated and subdelegated by written directive or administrative order.
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005; amd. Ord. 588-22, 6-14-2022)
1-13-6: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in these regulations shall have the meanings set forth
below:
ADDENDUM OR ADDENDA: Any addition or deletion to or a material change in a
solicitation document.
AWARD: The selection of a person to provide goods, services or public
improvements under a public contract. The award of a contract is not binding on
the city of Heppner until the contract is executed and delivered by city of
Heppner.
BID: A binding, sealed, written offer to provide goods, services or public
improvements for a specified price or prices.
CLOSING: The date and time announced in a solicitation document as the deadline
for submitting offers.
CONCESSION AGREEMENT: A contract that authorizes and requires a private entity
or individual to promote or sell, for its own business purposes, specified
types of goods or services from real property owned or managed by the city of
Heppner, and under which the concessionaire makes payments to the city of
Heppner based, at least in part, on the concessionaire's revenues or sales. The
term "concession agreement" does not include a mere rental agreement, license
or lease for the use of premises.
CONTRACT PRICE: The total amount paid or to be paid under a contract, including
any approved alternates, and any fully executed change orders or amendments.
CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD OR LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD: The Heppner city council.
COOPERATIVE PROCUREMENT: Procurement conducted by or on behalf of one or more
contracting agencies.
DEBARMENT: A declaration by the purchasing manager or city of Heppner under
Oregon Revised Statutes 279B.130 or 279C.440 that prohibits a potential
contractor from competing for the city of Heppner's public contracts for a
prescribed period of time.
DISPOSAL: Any arrangement for the transfer of property by the city of Heppner
under which the city of Heppner relinquishes ownership.
EMERGENCY: Circumstances that create a substantial risk of loss, damage or
interruption of services or a substantial threat to property, public health,
welfare or safety; and require prompt execution of a contract to remedy the
condition.
FINDINGS: The statements of fact that provide justification for a
determination. Findings may include, but are not limited to, information
regarding operation, budget and financial data; public benefits; cost savings;
competition in public contracts; quality and aesthetic considerations, value
engineering; specialized expertise needed; public safety; market conditions;
technical complexity; availability, performance and funding sources.
GOODS: Any item or combination of supplies, equipment, materials or other
personal property, including any tangible, intangible and intellectual property
and rights and licenses in relation thereto.
INFORMAL SOLICITATION: A solicitation made in accordance with the city of
Heppner's public contracting regulations to a limited number of potential
contractors, in which the solicitation agent attempts to obtain at least three
(3) written quotes or proposals.
INVITATION TO BID: A publicly advertised request for competitive sealed bids.
MODEL RULES: The public contracting rules adopted by the attorney general under
Oregon Revised Statutes 279A.065 and set forth in Oregon administrative rules
chapter 137, divisions 46, 47, 48 and 49.
OFFEROR: A person who submits a bid, quote or proposal to enter into a public
contract with the city of Heppner.
OREGON PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE: Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 279A, 279B and
279C.
PERSON: A natural person or any other private or governmental entity, having
the legal capacity to enter into a binding contract.
PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACT: A contract with an independent contractor
predominantly for services that require special training or certification,
skill, technical, creative, professional or communication skills or talents,
unique and specialized knowledge, or the exercise of judgment skills, and for
which the quality of the service depends on attributes that are unique to the
service provider. Such services include, but are not limited to, the services
of architects, engineers, land surveyors, attorneys, auditors and other
licensed professionals, artists, designers, computer programmers, performers,
consultants and property managers. The purchasing manager or Heppner city
council shall have discretion to determine whether additional types of services
not specifically mentioned in this paragraph fit within the definition of
personal services.
PROPOSAL: A binding offer to provide goods, services or public improvements
with the understanding that acceptance will depend on the evaluation of factors
other than, or in addition to, price. A proposal may be made in response to a
request for proposals or under an informal solicitation.
PUBLIC CONTRACT: A sale or other disposal, or a purchase, lease, rental or
other acquisition, by the city of Heppner of personal property, services,
including personal services, public improvements, public works, minor
alterations, or ordinary repair or maintenance necessary to preserve a public
improvement.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: A project for construction, reconstruction or major
renovation on real property by or for the city of Heppner. "Public improvement"
does not include:
   A.   Projects for which no funds of the city of Heppner are directly or
indirectly used, except for participation that is incidental or related
primarily to project design or inspection; or
   B.   Emergency work, minor alteration, ordinary repair or maintenance
necessary to preserve a public improvement.
PURCHASING MANAGER: The city administrator or designee appointed by the city
administrator to exercise the authority of the purchasing manager under these
public contracting regulations.
QUALIFIED POOL: A pool of vendors who are prequalified to compete for the award
of contracts for certain types of contracts or to provide certain types of
services.
QUOTE: A price offer made in response to an informal or qualified pool
solicitation to provide goods, services or public improvements.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: A publicly advertised request for sealed competitive
proposals.
SERVICES: Means and includes all types of services (including construction
labor) other than personal services.
SOLICITATION: An invitation to one or more potential contractors to submit a
bid, proposal, quote, statement of qualifications or letter of interest to the
city of Heppner with respect to a proposed project, procurement or other
contracting opportunity. The word "solicitation" also refers to the process by
which the city of Heppner requests, receives and evaluates potential
contractors and awards public contracts.
SOLICITATION AGENT: With respect to a particular solicitation or contract, the
city administrator or designee appointed by the city administrator charged with
responsibility for conducting the solicitation and making an award, or making a
recommendation on award to the Heppner city council.
SOLICITATION DOCUMENTS: All informational materials issued by the city of
Heppner for a solicitation, including, but not limited to, advertisements,
instructions, submission requirements and schedules, award criteria, contract
terms and specifications, and all laws, regulations and documents incorporated
by reference.
STANDARDS OF RESPONSIBILITY: The qualifications of eligibility for award of a
public contract. An offeror meets the standards of responsibility if the
offeror has:
   A.   Available the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility and
personnel resources and expertise, or ability to obtain the resources and
expertise, necessary to indicate the capability of the offeror to meet all
contractual responsibilities;
   B.   A satisfactory record of performance. The solicitation agent shall
document the record of performance of an offeror if the solicitation agent
finds the offeror to be not responsible under this paragraph;
   C.   A satisfactory record of integrity. The solicitation agent shall
document the record of integrity of an offeror if the solicitation agent finds
the offeror to be not responsible under this paragraph;
   D.   Qualified legally to contract with the city of Heppner;
   E.   Supplied all necessary information in connection with the inquiry
concerning responsibility. If an offeror fails to promptly supply information
requested by the solicitation agent concerning responsibility, the solicitation
agent shall base the determination of responsibility upon any available
information or may find the offeror nonresponsible; and
   F.   Not been debarred by the city of Heppner, and, in the case of public
improvement contracts, has not been listed by the construction contractors
board as a contractor who is not qualified to hold a public improvement
contract.
SURPLUS PROPERTY: Personal property owned by the city of Heppner, which is no
longer needed for use by the department to which such property has been
assigned. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-7: PROCESS FOR APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SOLICITATION METHODS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Heppner City Council: In its capacity as contract review
board for the city of Heppner, the Heppner city council, upon its own
initiative, or upon request of the purchasing manager, may create special
selection, evaluation and award procedures for, or may exempt from competition,
the award of a specific contract or class of contracts as provided in this
section.
   B.   Basis For Approval: The approval of a special solicitation method or
exemption from competition must be based upon a record before the Heppner city
council that contains the following:
      1.   The nature of the contract or class of contracts for which the
special solicitation or exemption is requested;
      2.   The estimated contract price or cost of the project, if relevant;
      3.   Findings to support the substantial cost savings, enhancement in
quality or performance or other public benefit anticipated by the proposed
selection method or exemption from competitive solicitation;
      4.   Findings to support the reason that approval of the request would be
unlikely to encourage favoritism or diminish competition for the public
contract or class of public contracts, or would otherwise substantially promote
the public interest in a manner that could not practicably be realized by
complying with the solicitation requirements that would otherwise be applicable
under these regulations;
      5.   A description of the proposed alternative contracting methods to be
employed; and
      6.   The estimated date by which it would be necessary to let the
contract(s).
In making a determination regarding a special selection method, the Heppner
city council may consider the type, cost, amount of the contract or class of
contracts, number of persons available to make offers, and such other factors
as it may deem appropriate.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   The city of Heppner shall approve the special solicitation or
exemption after a public hearing before the Heppner city council following
notice by publication in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Heppner area.
      2.   At the public hearing, the city shall offer an opportunity for any
interested party to appear and present comment.
      3.   The Heppner city council will consider the findings and may approve
the exemption as proposed or as modified by the city after providing an
opportunity for public comment.
   D.   Special Requirements For Public Improvement Contracts:
      1.   Notification of the public hearing for exemption of a public
improvement contract, or class of public improvement contracts, shall be
published in a trade newspaper of general statewide circulation at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing.
      2.   The notice shall state that the public hearing is for the purpose of
taking comments on the city of Heppner's draft findings for an exemption from
the standard solicitation method. At the time of the notice, copies of the
draft findings shall be made available to the public.
   E.   Commencement Of Solicitation Prior To Approval: A solicitation may be
issued prior to the approval of a special exemption under this section,
provided that the closing of the solicitation may not be earlier than five (5)
days after the date of the hearing at which the Heppner city council approves
the exemption. If the city council fails to approve a requested exemption, or
requires the use of a solicitation procedure other than the procedures
described in the issued solicitation documents, the issued solicitation may
either be modified by addendum, or canceled. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-8: SOLICITATION METHODS FOR CLASSES OF CONTRACTS:
The following classes of public contracts and the method(s) that are approved
for the award of each of the classes are hereby established by the Heppner city
council:
   A.   Purchases From Nonprofit Agencies For Disabled Individuals: The city of
Heppner shall give a preference to goods, services and public improvements
available from qualified nonprofit agencies for disabled individuals in
accordance with the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 279.835 through
279.850.
   B.   Public Improvement Contracts:
   1.   Public Improvements Not Exceeding Ten Thousand Dollars: Public
improvements not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be solicited
and awarded by the city administrator as specified in subsection
1-13-5 A of this chapter.
      2.   Nontransportation Public Improvements Exceeding Five Thousand
Dollars But Less Than One Hundred Thousand Dollars: Public improvement
contracts other than contracts for a highway, bridge or other transportation
project for which the estimated contract price does not exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) may be awarded using an informal solicitation
for quotes.
      3.   Transportation Public Improvements Exceeding Five Thousand Dollars
But Less Than Fifty Thousand Dollars: Contracts for which the estimated
contract price does not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for
highways, bridges or other transportation projects may be awarded using an
informal solicitation for quotes.
      4.   City Of Heppner Funded Privately Constructed Public Improvements:
The city of Heppner may contribute funding to a privately constructed public
improvement project without subjecting the project to competitive solicitation
requirements if all of the following conditions are met with respect to the
entire public improvement project:
         a.   The city of Heppner's contribution to the project may not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the total cost of the project;
         b.   The city of Heppner must comply with all applicable laws
concerning the reporting of the project to the bureau of labor and industries
as a public works project;
         c.   The general contractor for the project must agree in writing to
comply with all applicable laws concerning reporting and payment of prevailing
wages for the project;
         d.   The funds contributed to the project may not provide a pecuniary
benefit to the owner of the development for which the project is being
constructed, other than benefits that are shared by all members of the
community;
         e.   The performance of the general contractor and the payment of
labor for the project must be secured by performance and payment bonds or other
cash equivalent security that is acceptable to the purchasing manager to
protect the city of Heppner against defective performance and claims for
payment; and
         f.   The contract for construction of the project must be amended, as
necessary, to require the general contractor to maintain adequate workers'
compensation and liability insurance and to protect and provide indemnification
to the city of Heppner for all claims for payment, injury or property damage
arising from or related to the construction of the project.
      5.   Public Improvements By The City: The city may undertake to construct
a public improvement using its own equipment and personnel if doing so will
result in the least cost to the city or public. For purposes of this section,
resurfacing of roads at a depth of two (2) or more inches and at an estimated
cost of more than one hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) is a
public improvement. If the city decides to construct a public improvement
estimated to cost more than one hundred twenty five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) using its own personnel and equipment, the city shall prepare
adequate plans and specifications and the estimated unit cost of each
classification of work, and maintain an accurate accounting in accordance with
Oregon Revised Statutes 279C.305.
      6.   Contracts Exceeding Budget: If all responsive offers on a public
improvement contract exceed the budget for the project, the contracting agency
may, prior to contract award, negotiate for a price within the budget under the
following procedures:
         a.   Negotiations shall start with the lowest responsive, responsible
offeror. If negotiations are not successful, then the contracting agency may
negotiate with the second lowest responsive, responsible offeror, and so on.
         b.   Negotiations may include value engineering and other options to
attempt to bring the project cost within the budgeted amount.
         c.   A contract may not be awarded under this section if the scope of
the project is significantly changed from the description in the original
solicitation documents.
         d.   The records of an offeror used in contract negotiations under
this section are not subject to public inspection until after the negotiated
contract has been awarded or the negotiation process has been terminated.
   C.   Personal Services Contracts: Except as otherwise provided in these
regulations, personal services contracts may be awarded in the same manner as
contracts for services under Oregon Revised Statutes 279B.050, and 279B.060 to
279B.085.
      1.   Any Personal Services Contract: Personal services contracts in any
amount may be awarded under a publicly advertised request for competitive
sealed proposals.
      2.   Personal Service Contracts Not Exceeding One Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars: Contracts for personal services for which the estimated contract price
does not exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) may be awarded
using an informal solicitation for proposals.
      3.   Seventy Five Thousand Dollar Award From Qualified Pool: Contracts
for personal services for which the estimated contract price does not exceed
seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) may be awarded by direct appointment
without competition from a qualified pool.
      4.   Personal Service Contracts Not Exceeding Twenty Thousand Dollars Per
Year: Contracts for which the solicitation agent estimates that payments will
not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) in any fiscal year or one
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) over the full term, including
optional renewals, may be awarded under any method deemed in the city of
Heppner's best interest by the solicitation agent, including by direct
appointment.
      5.   Personal Service Contracts For Continuation Of Work: Contracts of
not more than one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) for the
continuation of work by a contractor who performed preliminary studies,
analysis or planning for the work under a prior contract may be awarded without
competition if the prior contract was awarded under a competitive process and
the solicitation agent determines that use of the original contractor will
significantly reduce the costs of, or risks associated with, the work.
   D.   Hybrid Contracts: The following classes of contracts include elements
of construction of public improvements as well as personal services and may be
awarded under a request for proposals, unless exempt from competitive
solicitation:
      1.   Design/Build And CM/GC Contracts: Contracts for the construction of
public improvements using a design/build or construction manager/general
contractor construction method shall be awarded under a request for proposals.
The determination to construct a project using a design/build or construction
manager/general contractor construction method must be approved by the Heppner
city council or designee, upon application of the solicitation agent, in which
the solicitation agent submits facts that support a finding that the
construction of the improvement under the proposed method is likely to result
in cost savings, higher quality, reduced errors, or other benefits to the city
of Heppner.
   E.   Contracts For Goods And Services:
      1.   Any Procurement: The procurement of goods or services, or goods and
services in any amount may be made under either an invitation to bid or a
request for proposals.
      2.   Small Procurements: Any procurement for goods or services not
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) may be made as provided in
subsection F of this section.
      3.   Intermediate Procurements: Any procurement for goods and services
exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) but less than one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) shall be acquired using a minimum of three (3)
informal competitive quotes or proposals and the purchasing manager shall
maintain written records of quotes or proposals.
      4.   Procurements Over One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars: The
procurement of goods or services, or goods and services, for which the
estimated contract price exceeds one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00) shall be awarded to the offeror whose quote best serves the
interests of the city of Heppner taking into account price and other
considerations including, but not limited to, experience, expertise, product
functionality, suitability and responsibility.
   F.   Contracts Subject To Award At Solicitation Agent's Discretion: The
following classes of contracts may be awarded in any manner, which the
solicitation agent deems appropriate to the city of Heppner's needs, including
by direct appointment or purchase. Except where otherwise provided the
solicitation agent shall make a record of the method of award.
      1.   Advertising: Contracts for the placing of notice or advertisements
in any medium.
      2.   Amendments: Contract amendments shall not be considered to be
separate contracts if made in accordance with the public contracting
regulations.
      3.   Animals: Contracts for the purchase of animals.
   4.   Contracts Up To Ten Thousand Dollars: Contracts/purchases of any type
for which the contract or price does not exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) may be made without a record of the method of award. The
purchasing agent shall attempt to find the most competitive price.
      5.   Copyrighted Materials; Library Materials: Contracts for the
acquisition of materials entitled to copyright, including, but not limited to,
works of art and design, literature and music, or materials even if not
entitled to copyright, purchased for use as library lending materials.
      6.   Equipment Repair: Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling,
provided the service or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be
determined without extensive preliminary dismantling or testing.
      7.   Government Regulated Items: Contracts for the purchase of items for
which prices or selection of suppliers are regulated by a governmental
authority.
      8.   Insurance: Insurance and service contracts as provided for under
Oregon Revised Statutes 414.115, 414.125, 414.135 and 414.145.
      9.   Nonowned Property: Contracts or arrangements for the sale or other
disposal of abandoned property or other personal property not owned by the city
of Heppner.
      10.   Sole Source Contracts: Contracts for goods or services which are
available from a single source may be awarded without competition.
      11.   Specialty Goods For Resale: Contracts for the purchase of specialty
goods by city of Heppner for resale to consumers.
      12.   Sponsor Agreements: Sponsorship agreements, under which the city of
Heppner receives a gift or donation in exchange for recognition of the donor.
      13.   Structures: Contracts for the disposal of structures located on
city of Heppner owned property.
      14.   Renewals: Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with their
terms are not considered to be newly issued contracts and are not subject to
competitive procurement procedures.
      15.   Temporary Extensions Or Renewals: Contracts for a single period of
one year or less, for the temporary extension or renewal of an expiring and
nonrenewable, or recently expired, contract, other than a contract for public
improvements.
      16.   Temporary Use Of City Of Heppner Owned Property: The city of
Heppner may negotiate and enter into a license, permit or other contract for
the temporary use of city of Heppner owned property without using a competitive
selection process if:
         a.   The contract results from an unsolicited proposal to the city of
Heppner based on the unique attributes of the property or the unique needs of
the proposer;
         b.   The proposed use of the property is consistent with the city of
Heppner's use of the property and the public interest; and
         c.   The city of Heppner reserves the right to terminate the contract
without penalty, in the event that the city of Heppner determines that the
contract is no longer consistent with the city of Heppner's present or planned
use of the property or the public interest.
      17.   Used Property: A solicitation agent, for procurements up to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), and the city council, for procurements in excess
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) may contract for the purchase of used
property by negotiation if such property is suitable for the city of Heppner's
needs and can be purchased for a lower cost than substantially similarly new
property. For this purpose the cost of used property shall be based upon the
life cycle cost of the property over the period for which the property will be
used by the city of Heppner. The purchasing manager shall record the findings
that support the purchase.
      18.   Utilities: Contracts for the purchase of steam, power, heat, water,
telecommunications services, and other utilities.
   G.   Contracts Required By Emergency Circumstances:
      1.   In General: When an official with authority to enter into a contract
on behalf of the city of Heppner determines that immediate execution of a
contract within the official's authority is necessary to prevent substantial
damage or injury to persons or property, the official may execute the contract
without competitive selection and award or Heppner city council approval, but,
where time permits, the official shall attempt to use competitive price and
quality evaluation before selecting an emergency contractor.
      2.   Reporting: An official who enters into an emergency contract shall,
as soon as possible, in light of the emergency circumstances: a) document the
nature of the emergency; the method used for selection of the particular
contractor and the reason why the selection method was deemed in the best
interest of the city of Heppner and the public, and b) notify the Heppner city
council of the facts and circumstances surrounding the emergency execution of
the contract.
      3.   Emergency Public Improvement Contracts: A public improvement
contract may only be awarded under emergency circumstances if the purchasing
manager has made a written declaration of emergency. Any public improvement
contract award under emergency conditions must be awarded within sixty (60)
days following the declaration of an emergency unless the Heppner city council
grants an extension of the emergency period. Where the time delay needed to
obtain a payment or performance bond for the contract could result in injury or
substantial property damage, the purchasing manager or Heppner city council may
waive the requirement for all or a portion of required performance and payment
bonds.
   H.   Federal Purchasing Programs: Goods and services may be purchased
without competitive procedures under a local government purchasing program
administered by the United States general services administration ("GSA") as
provided in this subsection H.
      1.   If a single purchase of goods or services exceeds one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00), the solicitation agent must obtain informal
written quotes or proposals from at least two (2) additional vendors (if
reasonably available) and find, in writing, that the goods or services offered
by GSA represent the best value for the city of Heppner. This paragraph does
not apply to the purchase of equipment manufactured or sold solely for military
or law enforcement purposes.
   I.   Cooperative Procurement Contracts: Cooperative procurements may be made
without competitive solicitation as provided in the Oregon public contracting
code.
   J.   Surplus Property:
      1.   General Methods: Surplus property may be disposed of by any of the
following methods upon a determination by the solicitation agent that the
method of disposal is in the best interest of the city of Heppner. Factors that
may be considered by the solicitation agent include costs of sale,
administrative costs, and public benefits to the city of Heppner. The
solicitation agent shall maintain a record of the reason for the disposal
method selected, and the manner of disposal, including the name of the person
to whom the surplus property was transferred.
         a.   Governments: Without competition, by transfer or sale to another
city of Heppner department or public agency.
         b.   Auction: By publicly advertised auction to the highest bidder.
         c.   Bids: By public advertised invitation to bid.
         d.   Liquidation Sale: By liquidation sale using a commercially
recognized third party liquidator selected in accordance with rules for the
award of personal services contracts.
         e.   Fixed Price Sale: The solicitation agent may establish a selling
price based upon an independent appraisal or published schedule of values
generally accepted by the insurance industry, schedule and advertise a sale
date, and sell to the first buyer meeting the sales terms.
         f.   Trade-In: By trade-in, in conjunction with acquisition of other
price based items under a competitive solicitation. The solicitation shall
require the offer to state the total value assigned to the surplus property to
be traded.
         g.   Donation: By donation to any organization operating within or
providing a service to residents of the city of Heppner which is recognized by
the internal revenue service as an organization described in section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
      2.   Disposal Of Property With Minimal Value: Surplus property which has
a value of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or for which the costs of
sale are likely to exceed sale proceeds may be disposed of by any means
determined to be cost effective, including by disposal as waste. The official
making the disposal shall make a record of the value of the item and the manner
of disposal.
      3.   Personal Use Items: An item (or indivisible set) of specialized and
personal use, other than police officer's handguns, with a current value of
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) may be sold to the employee or retired
or terminated employee for whose use it was purchased. These items may be sold
for fair market value without bid and by a process deemed most efficient by the
purchasing manager.
      4.   Restriction On Sale To City Of Heppner Employees: City of Heppner
employees shall not be restricted from competing, as members of the public, for
the purchase of publicly sold surplus property, but shall not be permitted to
offer to purchase property to be sold to the first qualifying bidder until at
least three (3) days after the first date on which notice of the sale is first
publicly advertised.
      5.   Conveyance To Purchaser: Upon the consummation of a sale of surplus
personal property, the city of Heppner shall provide a bill of sale signed on
behalf of the city of Heppner, conveying the property in question to the
purchaser.
   K.   Concession Agreements:
      1.   General: No part of a concession agreement shall contain or
constitute a waiver of any generally applicable rules, code provisions or
requirements of the city of Heppner concerning regulation, registration,
licensing, inspection, or permit requirements for any construction, rental or
business activity.
      2.   Classes Of Contracts Eligible For Award Without Competition: The
following concession agreements may be awarded by any method deemed appropriate
by the solicitation agent, including, without limitation, by direct
appointment, private negotiation, from a qualified pool, or using a competitive
process.
         a.   Contracts Under Five Thousand Dollars: Contracts under which the
solicitation agent estimates that receipts by the city of Heppner will not
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in any fiscal year and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) in the aggregate.
         b.   Single Event Concessions: Concessions to sell or promote food,
beverages, merchandise or services at a single public event.
      3.   Competitive Award: Concession agreements solicited by the city of
Heppner for the use of designated public premises for a term greater than a
single event shall be awarded as follows:
         a.   Small Concessions: For concession agreements for which the
concessionaire's projected annual gross revenues are estimated to be five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) or less, the purchasing manager has
discretion to use either an informal solicitation or formal request for
proposals process applicable to contracts for personal services. If the
proposals received indicate a probability that the concessionaire's annual
gross revenues will exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), the
solicitation agent may, but shall not be required to, reissue the solicitation
as a request for proposals.
         b.   Major Concessions: Concession agreements for which the
concessionaire's projected annual gross revenues under the contract are
estimated to exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) annually shall
be awarded using a request for proposals.
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005; amd. Ord. 588-22, 6-14-2022)
1-13-9: INFORMAL SOLICITATION PROCEDURES:
The city of Heppner may use the following procedure for informal solicitations
in lieu of the procedures set forth in the model rules:
   A.   Informally Solicited Quotes And Proposals:
      1.   Solicitation Of Offers: When authorized by these regulations, an
informal solicitation may be made by general or limited advertisement to a
certain group of vendors, by direct inquiry to persons selected by the
solicitation agent, or in any other manner which the solicitation agent deems
suitable for obtaining competitive quotes or proposals. The solicitation agent
shall deliver or otherwise make available to potential offerors, a written
scope of work, a description of how quotes or proposals are to be submitted and
description of the criteria for award.
      2.   Award: The solicitation agent shall attempt to obtain a minimum of
three (3) written quotes or proposals before making an award. If the award is
made solely on the basis of price, the solicitation agent shall award the
contract to the responsible offeror that submits the lowest responsive quote.
If the award is based on criteria other than, or in addition to, price, the
solicitation agent shall award the contract to the responsible offeror that
will best serve the interest of the city of Heppner, based on the criteria for
award.
      3.   Records: A written record of all persons solicited and offers
received shall be maintained. If three (3) offers cannot be obtained, a lesser
number will suffice, provided that a written record is made of the effort to
obtain the quotes.
   B.   Qualified Pools:
      1.   General: To create a qualified pool, the purchasing manager may
invite prospective contractors to submit their qualifications to the city of
Heppner for inclusion as participants in a pool of contractors qualified to
provide certain types of goods, services, or projects including personal
services, and public improvements.
      2.   Advertisement: The invitation to participate in a qualified pool
shall be advertised in the manner provided for advertisements of invitations to
bid and requests for proposals by publication in at least one newspaper of
general statewide circulation. If qualification will be for a term that exceeds
one year or allows open entry on a continuous basis, the invitation to
participate in the pool must be republished at least once per year and shall be
posted at the city of Heppner's main office and on its website.
      3.   Contents Of Solicitation: Requests for participation in a qualified
pool shall describe the scope of goods or services or projects for which the
pool will be maintained, and the minimum qualifications for participation in
the pool, which may include, but shall not be limited to, qualifications
related to financial stability, contracts with manufacturers or distributors,
certification as an emerging small business, insurance, licensure, education,
training, experience and demonstrated skills of key personnel, access to
equipment, and other relevant qualifications that are important to the
contracting needs of the city of Heppner.
      4.   Contract: The operation of each qualified pool may be governed by
the provisions of a pool contract to which the city of Heppner and all pool
participants are parties. The contract shall contain all terms required by the
city of Heppner, including, without limitation, terms related to price,
performance, business registration or licensure, continuing education,
insurance, and requirements for the submission, on an annual or other periodic
basis, of evidence of continuing qualification. The qualified pool contract
shall describe the selection procedures that the city of Heppner may use to
issue contract job orders. The selection procedures shall be objective and open
to all pool participants and afford all participants the opportunity to compete
for or receive job awards. Unless expressly provided in the contract,
participation in a qualified pool will not entitle a participant to the award
of any city of Heppner contract.
      5.   Use Of Qualified Pools: Subject to the provisions of these
regulations concerning methods of solicitation for classes of contracts, the
solicitation agent shall award all contracts for goods or services of the type
for which a qualified pool is created from among the pool's participants,
unless the solicitation agent determines that best interests of the city of
Heppner require solicitation by public advertisement, in which case, pool
participants shall be notified of the solicitation and invited to submit
competitive proposals.
      6.   Amendment And Termination: The purchasing manager may discontinue a
qualified pool at any time, or may change the requirements for eligibility as a
participant in the pool at any time, by giving notice to all participants in
the qualified pool.
      7.   Protest Of Failure To Qualify: The purchasing manager shall notify
any applicant who fails to qualify for participation in a pool that it may
appeal a qualified pool decision to the city of Heppner in the manner described
in section
1-13-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-10: USE OF BRAND NAME SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   In General: Specifications for contracts shall not expressly or
implicitly require any product by one brand name or mark, nor the product of
one particular manufacturer or seller, except for the following reasons:
      1.   It is unlikely that such exemption will encourage favoritism in the
awarding of public improvement contracts or substantially diminish competition
for public improvement contracts; or
      2.   The specification of a product by brand name or mark, or the product
of a particular manufacturer or seller, would result in substantial cost
savings to the city of Heppner; or
      3.   There is only one manufacturer or seller of the product of the
quality required; or
      4.   Efficient utilization of existing equipment, systems or supplies
requires the acquisition of compatible equipment or supplies.
   B.   Authority Of Purchasing Manager: The purchasing manager shall have
authority to determine whether an exemption for the use of a specific brand
name specification should be granted by recording findings that support the
exemption based on the provisions of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Brand Name Or Equivalent: Nothing in this section prohibits the city of
Heppner from using a "brand name or equivalent" specification, from specifying
one or more comparable products as examples of the quality, performance,
functionality or other characteristics of the product needed by the city of
Heppner, or from establishing a qualified product list. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-
2005)
1-13-11: BID, PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS:
   A.   Solicitation Agent May Require Bonds: The solicitation agent may
require bid security and a good and sufficient performance and payment bond
even though the contract is of a class that is exempt from the requirement.
   B.   Bid Security: Except as otherwise exempted, the solicitations for all
contracts that include the construction of a public improvement and for which
the estimated contract price will exceed seventy five thousand dollars
($75,000.00) shall require bid security. Bid security for a request for
proposal may be based on the city of Heppner's estimated contract price.
   C.   Performance Bonds:
      1.   General: Except as provided in these regulations, all public
contracts are exempt from the requirement for the furnishing of a performance
bond.
      2.   Contracts Involving Public Improvements: Prior to executing a
contract for more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) that includes the
construction of a public improvement, the contractor must deliver a performance
bond in an amount equal to the full contract price conditioned on the faithful
performance of the contract in accordance with the plans, specifications and
conditions of the contract. The performance bond must be solely for the
protection of the city of Heppner and any public agency that is providing
funding for the project for which the contract was awarded.
      3.   Cash In Lieu: The purchasing manager may permit the successful
offeror to submit a cashier's check or certified check in lieu of all or a
portion of the required performance bond.
   D.   Payment Bonds:
      1.   General: Except as provided in these regulations, all public
contracts are exempt from the requirement for the furnishing of a payment bond.
      2.   Contracts Involving Public Improvements: Prior to executing a
contract for more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) that includes the
construction of a public improvement, the contractor must deliver a payment
bond equal to the full contract price, solely for the protection of claimants
under Oregon Revised Statutes 279C.600.
   E.   Design/Build Contracts: If the public improvement contract is with a
single person to provide both design and construction of a public improvement,
the obligation of the performance bond for the faithful performance of the
contract must also be for the preparation and completion of the design and
related services covered under the contract. Notwithstanding when a cause of
action, claim or demand accrues or arises, the surety is not liable after final
completion of the contract, or longer if provided for in the contract, for
damages of any nature, economic or otherwise and including corrective work,
attributable to the design aspect of a design-build project, or for the costs
of design revisions needed to implement corrective work.
   F.   Construction Manager/General Contractor Contracts: If the public
improvement contract is with a single person to provide construction manager
and general contractor services, in which a guaranteed maximum price may be
established by an amendment authorizing construction period services following
preconstruction period services, the contractor shall provide the bonds
required by subsection A of this section upon execution of an amendment
establishing the guaranteed maximum price. The city of Heppner shall also
require the contractor to provide bonds equal to the value of construction
services authorized by any early work amendment in advance of the guaranteed
maximum price amendment. Such bonds must be provided before construction
starts.
   G.   Surety; Obligation: Each performance bond and each payment bond must be
executed solely by a surety company or companies holding a certificate of
authority to transact surety business in Oregon. The bonds may not constitute
the surety obligation of an individual or individuals. The performance and
payment bonds must be payable to the city of Heppner or to the public agency or
agencies for whose benefit the bond is issued, as specified in the solicitation
documents, and shall be in a form approved by the purchasing manager.
   H.   Emergencies: In cases of emergency, or when the interest or property of
the city of Heppner probably would suffer material injury by delay or other
cause, the requirement of furnishing a good and sufficient performance bond and
a good and sufficient payment bond for the faithful performance of any public
improvement contract may be excused, if a declaration of such emergency is made
in accordance with the provisions of subsection
1-13-8G of this chapter, unless the Heppner city council requires otherwise.
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-12: ELECTRONIC ADVERTISEMENT OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS:
In lieu of publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city of
Heppner area, the advertisement for an invitation to bid or request for
proposals for a contract involving a public improvement may be published
electronically by posting on the city of Heppner's website, provided that the
following conditions are met:
   A.   The placement of the advertisement is on a location within the website
that is maintained on a regular basis for the posting of information concerning
solicitations for projects of the type for which the invitation to bid or
request for proposals is issued; and
   B.   The solicitation agent determines that the use of electronic
publication will be at least as effective in encouraging meaningful competition
as publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city of Heppner
area and will provide costs savings for the city of Heppner, or that the use of
electronic publication will be more effective than publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city of Heppner area in encouraging meaningful
competition. (Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-13: APPEAL OF DEBARMENT OR PREQUALIFICATION DECISION:
   A.   Right To Hearing: Any person who has been debarred from competing for
city of Heppner contracts or for whom prequalification has been denied, revoked
or revised may appeal the city of Heppner's decision to the Heppner city
council as provided in this section.
   B.   Filing Of Appeal: The person must file a written notice of appeal with
the city of Heppner's purchasing manager within three (3) business days after
the prospective contractor's receipt of notice of the determination of
debarment, or denial of prequalification.
   C.   Notification Of Heppner City Council: Immediately upon receipt of such
notice of appeal, the purchasing manager shall notify the Heppner city council
of the appeal.
   D.   Hearing: The procedure for appeal from a debarment or denial,
revocation or revision of prequalification shall be as follows:
      1.   Promptly upon receipt of notice of appeal, the city of Heppner shall
notify the appellant of the time and place of the hearing;
      2.   The Heppner city council shall conduct the hearing and decide the
appeal within thirty (30) days after receiving notice of the appeal from the
purchasing manager; and
      3.   At the hearing, the Heppner city council shall consider de novo the
notice of debarment, or the notice of denial, revocation or revision of
prequalification, the standards of responsibility upon which the decision on
prequalification was based, or the reasons listed for debarment, and any
evidence provided by the parties.
   E.   Decision: The Heppner city council shall set forth in writing the
reasons for the decision.
   F.   Costs: The Heppner city council may allocate the Heppner city council's
costs for the hearing between the appellant and the city of Heppner. The
allocation shall be based upon facts found by the Heppner city council and
stated in the Heppner city council's decision that, in the Heppner city
council's opinion, warrant such allocation of costs. If the Heppner city
council does not allocate costs, the costs shall be paid as by the appellant,
if the decision is upheld, or by the city of Heppner, if the decision is
overturned.
   G.   Judicial Review: The decision of the Heppner city council may be
reviewed only upon a petition in the circuit court of Umatilla County filed
within fifteen (15) days after the date of the Heppner city council's decision.
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-14: COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDS OR PROPOSALS:
An invitation to bid by competitive sealed bids shall have at the minimum:
   A.   General information, contract terms and conditions and whether or not
contractor can assign the contract or subcontract without prior written
approval from the city.
   B.   A notice of pre-offer/bid conference, if any, including the time, date
and location, whether attendance is mandatory, notice that any statements by
contracting agency representatives are not binding unless confirmed by written
addendum.
   C.   The form and instructions for submission of bids and any special
provisions such as whether or not bids may be submitted electronically.
   D.   The time, date and place of opening.
   E.   Place where solicitation document may be reviewed.
   F.   A statement that each bidder must identify whether the bidder is a
"resident" bidder as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 279A.120(1).
   G.   Contractor's certification of nondiscrimination in obtaining required
subcontractors in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 279A.110(4).
   H.   How the city will notify bidders of addenda and how the city will make
addenda available.
   I.   Objective evaluation criteria.
   J.   If the city intends to award contract to more than one bidder, and if
so the manner the city will use to determine the number of contracts it will
award.
   K.   Need to provide statement of workman's compensation coverage, need to
comply with prevailing wage statutes, whether or not contractor is required to
certify compliance with the Oregon tax laws in accordance with Oregon Revised
Statutes 305.385.
   L.   A statement that "The city of Heppner reserves the right to reject any
and all bids when it is determined to be it the best interest of the public".
   M.   Notice that all bids must be enclosed within an inner envelope that is
sealed and clearly marked on the outside of the inner envelope "sealed bid".
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
1-13-15: CONTENT OF ADVERTISEMENT:
Advertisements shall include at minimum the following content:
   A.   Where, when and how and for how long the solicitation document may be
obtained.
   B.   A general description of the goods and services or construction
project.
   C.   The interval between the first date of notice of the solicitation
document and closing shall be at least fourteen (14) days for an invitation to
bid or thirty (30) days for a request for proposals, unless the city council
determines that a shorter interval, will not substantially affect competition,
but the least amount of time for such interval shall be seven (7) days.
   D.   If prequalification is required and if so the date such applications
must be filed.
   E.   Place where contract terms, conditions and specifications may be
reviewed.
   F.   The name, title and address of the individual authorized by the city to
receive offers or bids.
   G.   Scheduled opening date.
   H.   A copy of advertisement or notice of solicitation shall be provided to
the advocate for minority, women and small emerging business for any project
with an estimated contract price exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
(Ord. 550-05, 3-14-2005)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Competitive Bids; Exemptions
2-1-4: Emergency Contracts
2-1-5: Brand Name Specification and Contracts
2-1-6: Exemption Hearing
2-1-7: Bid Rejection
2-1-8: Bidder Disqualification
2-1-9: Appeal of Disqualification
2-1-10: Additional Authority of Board
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED:
The City Council is hereby designated as the Local Contract Review Board and
relative to contract concerns of the City shall have all the powers granted to
the State Public Contract Review Board. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth herein:
BOARD: The Local Contract Review Board as established in Section
2-1-1 of this Chapter.
PUBLIC CONTRACT: Any purchase, lease or sale by the City of personal property,
public improvements or services other than agreements which are exclusively for
personal service.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any construction of improvements on real property by or for
the City of Heppner. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-3: COMPETITIVE BIDS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   All contracts shall be based upon competitive bids except:
      1.   Contracts made with or the cost of which is provided by other public
agencies or the Federal government.
      2.   Contracts for any purchase, the amount of which is less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      3.   Contracts for any item which is available only through one company,
firm or individual.
   B.   The Contract Review Board may, by resolution, exempt other contracts
from competitive bidding if it finds:
      1.   The lack of bids will not result in favoritism or substantially
diminished competition in awarding the contract; and
      2.   The exemption will result in substantial cost savings.
In making such finding, the Board may consider the type, cost, amount of the
contract, number of persons available to bid, and such other factors as the
Board may deem appropriate. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76; 1995 Code)
2-1-4: EMERGENCY CONTRACTS:
A contract may also be exempted from competitive bidding if the Board, by
unanimous vote, determines that emergency conditions require prompt execution
of the contract. A determination of such an emergency shall be entered into the
record of the meeting at which the determination was made. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-5: BRAND NAME SPECIFICATION AND CONTRACTS:
   A.   Specifications for contracts shall not require any product by any brand
name or mark, nor the product of any particular manufacturer or seller, unless
the product is exempted from this requirement by the Board under this Section.
However, this Section shall not be construed to prevent reference and the
specification to the particular product as a description of the type of item
required.
   B.   The Board may, by resolution, exempt certain products or classes of
products upon any of the following findings:
      1.   It is unlikely that such exemption will encourage favoritism in the
awarding of the contract or substantially diminished competition.
      2.   The specification of a product by brand name or a mark or the
product of a particular manufacturer or seller would result in substantial cost
savings.
      3.   There is only one manufacturer or seller of the product of the
quality of the product required.
      4.   Efficient utilization of existing equipment or supplies require the
acquisition of compatible equipment or supplies. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-6: EXEMPTION HEARING:
Whenever the Board is considering an exemption to the requirements for
competitive bids or brand name specifications, it shall provide for notice to
the public and an opportunity for a public hearing on whether the exemption
should be allowed. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-7: BID REJECTION:
The City Council or an official designated by the City Council may reject any
bid not in compliance with all prescribed public bidding procedures and
requirements and may reject all bids if it is in the public interest to do so.
(Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-8: BIDDER DISQUALIFICATION:
The City Council or an official designated by the City Council may disqualify
any person as a bidder on a contract if:
   A.   The person does not have sufficient financial ability to perform the
contract. Evidence that the person can acquire a surety bond in the amount and
type required shall be sufficient to establish financial security;
   B.   The person does not have equipment available to perform the contract;
   C.   The person does not have personnel of sufficient experience to perform
the contract; or
   D.   The person has repeatedly breached contractual obligations to public
and private agencies. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
2-1-9: APPEAL OF DISQUALIFICATION:
A person who has been disqualified as a bidder may appeal such disqualification
to the Board as provided in this Section:
   A.   The person shall, within three (3) business days after receipt of
notice of disqualification, in writing, notify the City Recorder that he wishes
to appeal his disqualification.
   B.   Immediately upon receipt of such written notice of appeal, the City
Recorder shall inform the Board.
   C.   Upon receipt of notice of appeal, the Board shall notify the person
appealing of the time and place of the hearing.
   D.   The Board shall conduct the hearing according to the provisions of ORS
279.045(3) and decide the appeal within ten (10) days after receiving the
notification and shall set forth, in writing, the reasons for its decisions.
(Ord. 398, 1-3-76; 1995 Code)
2-1-10: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF BOARD:
In addition to the powers and duties established by this Chapter, the Board
shall have additional powers as authorized by State law. (Ord. 398, 1-3-76)
CHAPTER 2
BUDGET COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Budget Committee Created; Statutory Authority
2-2-2: Terms; Membership; Duties; Powers
2-2-1: BUDGET COMMITTEE CREATED; STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The City Budget Committee is established in accordance with Oregon Local Budget
Law, ORS 294.305 et seq. (1995 Code)
2-2-2: TERMS; MEMBERSHIP; DUTIES; POWERS:
The Budget Committee's terms, membership, duties and powers shall be as
established in ORS 294.336 and all future amendments and changes thereto. (1995
Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created; Statutory Authority
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Terms; Positions
2-3-4: Officers Elected
2-3-5: Commission Secretary; Meeting Records
2-3-6: Quorum; Rules; Meetings
2-3-7: Powers
2-3-8: Expenditures Authorized
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED; STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The City Planning Commission is established in accordance with the provisions
of ORS 227.010 through 227.090. (1995 Code)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There shall be seven (7) members of the Planning Commission,
hereinafter "Commission". Commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the City Council. All Commissioners must be residents of the
City. No more than two (2) members of the Commission may engage principally in
the buying, selling or developing of real estate for profit as individuals, or
be members of any partnership or officers or employees of any corporation, that
engages principally in the buying, selling or developing of real estate for
profit. No more than two (2) members shall be engaged in the same kind of
occupation, business, trade or profession.
   B.   No City officers, City Councilors or the Mayor may serve on the
Planning Commission.
   C.   Members of the Planning Commission may be removed by the City Council,
after hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance of duty. Absences from three
(3) consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions, or
absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the
calendar year shall constitute nonperformance. Circumstances of the absences
shall be considered by the City Council prior to removal. Any person who knows
in advance of his or her inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify
the chairperson or secretary of the Commission at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled by the Mayor with the
consent of the City Council for the unexpired terms of the predecessor in
office. (1995 Code)
2-3-3: TERMS; POSITIONS:
   A.   The terms of the Commissioners shall be four (4) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered one through seven (7) inclusive for the
members of the Commission. The Commission existing at the time of enactment of
this Chapter shall determine by lot which Commissioners shall fill which
positions. The initial term of the Commissioner in each position shall begin
the effective date of this Chapter and terminate on the date specified below
for each position, until their successors are appointed and qualified.
POSITION NUMBER INITIAL EXPIRATION DATE
POSITION NUMBER INITIAL EXPIRATION DATE
#1              First Monday in January, 1995
#2              First Monday in January, 1995
#3              First Monday in January, 1996
#4              First Monday in January, 1996
#5              First Monday in January, 1997
#6              First Monday in January, 1997
#7              First Monday in January, 1998
 
   B.   Thereafter the Commissioner appointed for each position shall hold
office for four (4) years from the first Monday in January in the year in which
that position is filled. Commissioners may be appointed for more than one term.
(1995 Code)
2-3-4: OFFICERS ELECTED:
The Commission, at its first meeting in January, shall elect a chairperson and
vice-chairperson for the upcoming year. If a vacancy occurs in either the
chairperson or vice-chairperson positions, the Commission shall elect a
Commissioner to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. If both the chairperson
and vice- chairperson are absent from a specific meeting, the attending
Commissioners shall elect a chairperson pro-tem for the meeting. (1995 Code)
2-3-5: COMMISSION SECRETARY; MEETING RECORDS:
The City Recorder or his/her designee shall serve as Commission secretary. The
secretary shall keep an accurate record of all Commission proceedings. (1995
Code)
2-3-6: QUORUM; RULES; MEETINGS:
Four (4) members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. The Commission
may make and alter rules and regulations governing its proceedings consistent
with the laws of this State and with the City Charter and ordinances. It shall
meet at least once a month, on the first Monday of each month, or at such other
times as the Council may set by resolution. Special meetings may be called at
any time by the chairperson or by three (3) Commissioners by written notice
served upon each Commissioner at least three (3) hours before the time
specified for the proposed meeting. (1995 Code)
2-3-7: POWERS:
The Commission shall have all the powers delegated to it under Title 11, the
Zoning Ordinance of this Code; Title 12, the Subdivision Ordinance of this
Code; and Title 13, the Flood Plain Management Ordinance. The Commission shall
have such other powers and duties allowed under ORS 227.090 as are assigned to
it by City Council resolution. (1995 Code)
2-3-8: EXPENDITURES AUTHORIZED:
The Commission shall have no authority to make expenditures on behalf of the
City or disburse any funds provided by the City or to obligate the City for any
sums of money except those included in the City budget and after the City
Council shall have authorized such expenditure by appropriate resolution, which
resolution shall provide the administrative method by which such funds shall be
drawn and expended. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSING AUTHORITY AND BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Housing Authority and Board Created
2-4-2: Terms; Membership; Duties; Powers
2-4-1: HOUSING AUTHORITY AND BOARD CREATED:
The Heppner Housing Authority and Board was created by Resolution 060589
adopted June 5, 1989, pursuant to ORS 456.055 et seq. and amended by Resolution
36-92 adopted March 9, 1992. (1995 Code)
2-4-2: TERMS; MEMBERSHIP; DUTIES; POWERS:
The Board's terms, membership, duties and powers shall be as established in ORS
456 et seq. and all future amendments and changes thereto. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE DEPARTMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Committee Created
2-5-2: Membership; Terms
2-5-3: Powers; Duties
2-5-1: COMMITTEE CREATED:
The Heppner Fire Department Advisory Committee is established in accordance
with Chapter 6 of this Title. The Committee is created as a standing committee.
(1995 Code)
2-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
There shall be nine (9) members of the Fire Department Advisory Committee,
hereinafter "Committee". The members shall be the Mayor, one Councilor, City
Manager, Fire Chief and five (5) volunteer members of the Fire Department. Fire
Department members shall serve four (4) year terms. The initial members and
ending dates of the initial term shall be established by resolution. (1995
Code)
2-5-3: POWERS; DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the Committee shall include:
   A.   The coordination of information between the City Council, the City
administration and the Fire Department;
   B.   To advise the City administration on the implementation of the fire
fleet, equipment and facilities plan related to the 1992 Capital Improvement
Bond program;
   C.   Address the general needs of the Fire Department, including budget
recommendations; and
   D.   Advise the City on Fire Department personnel policy. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 6
STANDING AND AD HOC COMMITTEES
SECTION:
2-6-1: Definitions
2-6-2: Authority to Create Committees
2-6-3: Membership; Compensation
2-6-4: Removal of Member
2-6-5: Vacancy
2-6-6: Purpose
2-6-7: Organization
2-6-8: Meetings; Rules and Regulations
2-6-9: Expenditures Authorized
2-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter the following terms shall mean:
AD HOC COMMITTEE: A temporary committee established for a definite period of
time sufficient to address a specific scope of work.
STANDING COMMITTEE: A committee established to address specified matters on an
ongoing basis. (1995 Code)
2-6-2: AUTHORITY TO CREATE COMMITTEES:
In accordance with Oregon statutes and the City Charter, the City Council may
establish by ordinance or resolution, standing and ad hoc committees as needed
to facilitate City business and to advise the City Council on matters of
interest to the City. (1995 Code)
2-6-3: MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION:
The membership of each committee established under this Chapter shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The
committee members shall receive no compensation. Such committees shall consist
of a definite number of members, but in no case shall the number be fewer than
three (3) nor greater than nine (9). If the committee being created is a
standing committee the terms of the committee shall be four (4) year staggered
terms. The resolution creating a committee shall specify the number of members,
the position and the length and termination date of each term. If appointed by
the City Council, committee members may serve successive terms. If possible and
appropriate, membership should be selected to reflect various occupations,
businesses, trades and professions. (1995 Code)
2-6-4: REMOVAL OF MEMBER:
A member of a committee created under this Chapter may be removed by the City
Council, after hearing, for misconduct or nonperformance of duty. Absences from
three (3) consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions, or
absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the
calendar year shall constitute nonperformance. Circumstances of the absences
shall be considered by the City Council prior to removal. Any person who knows
in advance of his or her inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify
the chairperson or secretary of the committee at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to any scheduled meeting. (1995 Code)
2-6-5: VACANCY:
Any vacancy on a committee created under this Chapter shall be filled by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council, for the unexpired term of
the member creating the vacancy. (1995 Code)
2-6-6: PURPOSE:
The City Council shall include in a resolution creating a committee a clear
statement of the purpose, powers and duties of the committee. If an ad hoc
committee is being created, the resolution shall state the length of time the
committee is to exist. If the City Council deems it necessary, the Council may
also set the frequency of committee meetings. (1995 Code)
2-6-7: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   At a committee's first meeting, the committee shall elect officers,
including a chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary. If a vacancy occurs in
an officer's position, the committee shall elect a member of the committee to
fill the vacancy at the next meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the
committee and shall keep an accurate record of all committee proceedings.
   B.   In the absence of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall assume
the responsibilities of and act as the chairperson pro tem. If both the
chairperson and vice-chairperson are absent from a specific meeting the
attending committee members shall elect a chairperson pro tem for that meeting.
(1995 Code)
2-6-8: MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The majority of a committee created under this Chapter shall constitute a
quorum. Not less than a quorum of the committee may transact any business or
conduct any proceedings before the committee. The committee may adopt and amend
rules and regulations governing policy and procedure, as long as rules and
regulations do not violate any statutes, the City Charter, ordinances or the
enacting resolution. If the enacting resolution does not so provide, the
committee shall decide the frequency of the meetings and the times at which the
meetings shall be held. All meetings are open to the public. Special meetings
may be called at any time by the chairperson or by three (3) committee members
by written notice served to each member of the committee at least three (3)
hours before the time for the proposed meeting. (1995 Code)
2-6-9: EXPENDITURES AUTHORIZED:
A committee created under this Chapter shall not have authority to make any
expenditures on behalf of the City or disburse any funds provided by the City
or to obligate the City for any funds except as has been included in the City
budget and after the City Council shall have authorized the expenditure by
appropriate resolution, which resolution shall provide the administrative
method by which funds shall be drawn and expended. (1995 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Peddler Defined
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application for License; Fee
3-1-4: Investigation of Applicant and Issuance of License
3-1-5: License Fees; Term; Exhibition
3-1-6: License Transfer Restricted
3-1-7: Use of Streets
3-1-8: Solicitations by Charitable or Religious Groups
3-1-9: Permission Required to Enter Private Residence
3-1-10: Revocation of License; Hearing
3-1-11: Appeal
3-1-12: Enforcement by Police Chief
3-1-13: Penalty
3-1-1: PEDDLER DEFINED:
   A.   As used in this Chapter, the word "peddler" includes any person,
whether a resident of the City or not:
      1.   Who goes from house-to-house or from place-to-place within the City
without invitation offering or exposing for sale, selling or taking orders for
goods, wares or merchandise or any article or thing of value for present or
future delivery or for services then to be performed or to be performed in the
future or for the making, manufacturing or repair of any article or things
whatsoever for present or future delivery.
      2.   Who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers for sale
from an automotive vehicle or other vehicle or conveyance any goods, wares or
merchandise, article or thing for present or future delivery.
      3.   Who engages in a temporary business of selling or offering for sale
goods, wares or merchandise or any article or thing of value for present or
future delivery, or for services then to be performed or to be performed in the
future or for the making, manufacture or repair of any article or thing
whatsoever for present or future delivery.
      4.   Who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies
any building, structure, motor vehicle, trailer, tent, public room in a hotel,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any street or alley or other place within the
City for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, merchandise, service or
manufactured article.
   B.   The word "peddler" does not include:
      1.   A newspaper vendor or a regular commercial traveler employed by a
wholesale house and selling goods, wares, merchandise or services to merchants
of the City for the purpose of resale, or representatives of public utilities.
      2.   A person soliciting money, donations of money or property or
financial assistance of any kind or selling or distributing any item of
literature or merchandise for a fee upon the streets, in office buildings, by
house-to-house canvass or in public places for a charitable, religious,
patriotic or philanthropic purpose.
      3.   A person who sells his own property which was not acquired for
resale, barter or exchange and who does not conduct such sales or act as a
participant by furnishing goods in such a sale more than twice during any
calendar year. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86; 1995 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person may engage in the business of a peddler as defined in Section
3-1-1 of this Chapter without first obtaining a license and paying the license
fees required by this Chapter. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Information Required: An applicant for a peddler's license shall file
with the City Recorder an application, in writing, in duplicate on a form to be
furnished by the City that shall give the following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant.
      2.   Address (legal and local).
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or
grown by the applicant.
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer.
      5.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification.
      7.   The names of at least two (2) reliable property owners who will
certify to the applicant's good character and business responsibility or, in
lieu of the names of references, any other available evidence as to the good
character and business responsibility of the applicant that enables an
investigator to evaluate properly such character and business responsibility.
   B.   Investigation Fee: At the time of filing the application, the applicant
shall pay a nonrefundable fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the City Recorder to
cover the costs of investigation. When a person makes an application for
renewal of an existing peddler's license, the investigation fee and the
information required by subsection A of this Section are not required. (Ord.
460, 5-5-86; 1995 Code)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Investigation by Police Chief: Upon receipt of the application required
by this Chapter, the City Recorder shall refer the application to the Police
Chief, who shall cause an investigation of the applicant's business and moral
character to be made as may be necessary for the protection of the public. The
investigation shall include the following:
      1.   History of performance on business agreements;
      2.   Reports to the Better Business Bureau regarding applicant;
      3.   Prior complaints with respect to business dealings;
      4.   Has applicant lived up to terms of licenses;
      5.   Is applicant properly licensed with other State and Federal agencies
as required;
      6.   Criminal convictions of applicant and all persons acting for or on
behalf of applicant in the City;
      7.   Length of time in business;
      8.   Insurance covering goods and applicant's business; and
      9.   Anything else bearing on applicant's business or moral character.
   B.   Disapproval of Applicant: If, as a result of the investigation, the
character or business responsibility of the applicant is found to be
unsatisfactory, the Police Chief shall endorse on the application his
disapproval and his reasons for the same and return the application to the City
Recorder who shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and
that no license may be issued.
   C.   Approval of Applicant; License Issuance: If, as a result of the
investigation, the character or business responsibility of the applicant are
found to be satisfactory, the Police Chief shall endorse on the application his
approval and return the approved original application to the City Recorder. The
license shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and shall show the
name and business of the licensee, the type of goods to be sold thereunder, the
amount of fee paid, the date of issuance, the length of time the license is in
effect and the license number and other identifying description of the vehicle
used in peddling. The City Recorder shall keep a record of all licenses issued.
   D.   Time Limit for Approval or Disapproval: The Police Chief shall approve
or disapprove the application within twenty (20) days from the receipt of the
application. If the application is not approved or disapproved within the time
allowed, the Police Chief is considered to have given his consent and approval
of the application.
   E.   Inspection of Goods and Wares: The Police Chief may inspect all goods,
wares, merchandise or other commodities or services which are to be offered for
sale by the applicant for a peddler's license. The license issued to an
applicant shall not be effective until such inspection has been made and the
Police Chief has certified, in writing, to the City Recorder that the goods,
wares, merchandise or other commodities or services to be offered for sale by
the applicant are of good merchantable quality.
   F.   Perishable Commodities: In the case of perishable commodities, the
Police Chief may inspect the contents of each box, bag or other container. The
Police Chief shall be satisfied that such commodities are of good merchantable
quality and uniform throughout any container. Spoiled or damaged commodities
shall be confiscated and the Police Chief may require that all inferior
commodities be removed before certifying that the remainder of such goods,
wares, merchandise or other commodities are of good merchantable quality. (Ord.
460, 5-5-86)
3-1-5: LICENSE FEES; TERM; EXHIBITION:
   A.   Fees: A person applying for a peddler's license shall pay to the City
Recorder the license fee in accordance with the following fee schedules:
 
One day license  $ 10.00
One week license 25.00
One year license 100.00
 
   B.   Renewal of License: A license may be renewed before expiration by
paying the applicable license fee. After expiration, agreement for new license
shall be treated as a new application and not as a renewal.
   C.   Term of License: All licenses issued shall state on the face the dates
the license is in effect.
   D.   Exhibition of License: A peddler shall exhibit his license on the
request of any person. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-6: LICENSE TRANSFER RESTRICTED:
No peddler's license issued under this Chapter may be used by a person other
than the one to whom the license is issued. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-7: USE OF STREETS:
No peddler has an exclusive right to a particular location in the public
streets nor is a peddler permitted to have a stationary location or to operate
in a congested area where his operations impede or inconvenience the public.
For the purpose of this Section, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in
good faith, is conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public
impeded or inconvenienced. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-8: SOLICITATIONS BY CHARITABLE OR RELIGIOUS GROUPS:
   A.   License Required: A charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic
organization, society, association or corporation which desires to solicit or
has solicited in its name any money, donations of money or property or
financial assistance of any kind or which desires to sell or distribute any
item of literature or merchandise for which a fee is charged or is solicited
from persons other than members of such organization upon the streets, in
office buildings, by house-to-house canvass or in public places for a
charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic purpose shall first apply for
and obtain a license from the City Recorder.
   B.   Information Required: The application required by subsection A of this
Section shall be completed and certified by the applicant on a form provided by
the City. The following information is required:
      1.   The name and purpose of the cause for which license is sought;
      2.   The names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization;
      3.   Whether or not any commission, fees, wages or emoluments are to be
expended in connection with such solicitation and amount thereof;
      4.   The period during which solicitation is to be carried on.
   C.   Issuance of License; No Fee: Upon satisfactory proof that the
organization, society, association or corporation desiring to solicit or have
solicitations made in its name is a charitable, religious, patriotic or
philanthropic organization, society, association or corporation and that it
wishes to solicit for charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic
purposes, the City Recorder shall issue a license without charge to such
organization, society, association or corporation to solicit in the City.
   D.   Term of License: A license granted under this Section is valid for the
period stated on the face of the license. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-9: PERMISSION REQUIRED TO ENTER PRIVATE RESIDENCE:
   A.   Permission: It shall be deemed a trespass and a nuisance for any
solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or transient vendor of
merchandise, books or periodicals to go in or upon any private residence in the
City for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, books or periodical or for the purpose of disposing of or peddling
or hawking such goods, wares, merchandise, books or periodicals without first
having obtained permission to enter from the owner or occupants of such
residence.
   B.   Enforcement: The Chief of Police and any of the police officers of the
City are hereby required and directed to suppress the same and to abate any
such nuisance as described in subsection A of this Section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this Section shall be assessed a Class A infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 295, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
3-1-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   Causes for Revocation: A license issued under this Chapter may be
revoked by the City Council after notice and hearing for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the course of
carrying on the licensed activity;
      3.   A violation of this City Code;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the licensed activity in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice of Hearing: Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license
shall be given, in writing, to the licensee, setting specifically the grounds
of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed,
postage prepaid, to the licensee at his last known address at least five (5)
days before the date set for hearing. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-11: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the Police Chief or the City Recorder in
failing to issue a license as provided for in this Chapter shall have the right
to appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the
City Recorder, within fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained
has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written statement
setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The City Council shall set a
time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall
be given to the applicant in the same manner provided for in subsection
3-1-10B of this Chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and
order of the City Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive. (Ord.
460, 5-5-86)
3-1-12: ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   Display of License: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
require any person who is required to have a license, seen peddling within the
incorporated territory of the City, to produce his license and enforce the
provisions of this Chapter against any person found to be violating the same.
   B.   Maintain Record of Violations: The Chief of Police shall report to the
City Recorder all convictions for violation of this Chapter, and the City
Recorder shall maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports
of violations therein. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, every person violating any provision of this Chapter
shall be assessed a Class A infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 460, 5-5-86; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SOCIAL GAMING
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Person Defined
3-2-3: Social Gaming License Required
3-2-4: Social Games Authorization Limited
3-2-5: Social Games License Application Process
3-2-6: Social Games License Issuance; Denial
3-2-7: Responsibility Of The Licensee
3-2-8: Revocation, Suspension Of Social Games License
3-2-9: Appeal
3-2-10: Inspection Of Premises Licensed For Social Games
3-2-11: Notice Of Social Games Required
3-2-1: TITLE:
The provisions set out in this chapter are enacted pursuant to Oregon Revised
Statutes section 167.121 and shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF
HEPPNER SOCIAL GAMING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-2: PERSON DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, "person" means any individual, firm, partnership,
corporation, association, club or other organization. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-3: SOCIAL GAMING LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or allow the playing of "social games", as defined in
Oregon Revised Statutes section 167.117 in a private business, private club or
place of public accommodation unless the person first obtains a social gaming
license in accordance with this chapter.
A license shall be required for any person to conduct or permit to be conducted
in any private business, private club, or place of public accommodation any
social game. Any violation of the conditions set forth in this chapter shall be
considered grounds for suspension or revocation of such license and is a class
A infraction. Such license is not subject to transfer or assignment, is not
valid at any location other than the premises described therein, and shall be
dated as of the first day of the month in which issued and shall expire one
year from that date. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-4: SOCIAL GAMES AUTHORIZATION LIMITED:
A social game between players in a private business, private club, or place of
public accommodation is authorized only when each of the following conditions
are met:
   A.   No house player, house bank, or house odds exist;
   B.   There is no house income from the operation of a social game;
   C.   The game cannot be observed from a public right of way;
   D.   Persons under eighteen (18) years of age are not permitted in the room
or enclosure where the social game takes place;
   E.   The house cannot provide a dealer on behalf of the house or other
persons;
   F.   All gambling stakes must go back to the players. A dealer is not a
player;
   G.   A valid license issued pursuant to this chapter is conspicuously
displayed in the room or enclosure where the social game takes place; and
   H.   The room or enclosure where the social game takes place is open to free
and immediate access by any police officer. Doors leading into the social game
room must remain unlocked during all hours of operation. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-
2009)
3-2-5: SOCIAL GAMES LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   The application for a license to conduct any social game activity shall
set forth all information deemed necessary by the city of Heppner consistent
with the regulations provided in this chapter, including, but not limited to, a
description of the premises subject to the license, and the fingerprints of the
owner(s), officers, principal managing employees, and all employees who are
involved in conducting the game activities or operating the game premises of
the applicant. The licensee shall notify the Heppner city manager within ten
(10) days of any change in owners, officers, or principal managing employees
that occurs subsequent to license issuance.
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "principal managing employee"
shall include:
         a.   Any person who is a proprietor or partner of the applying
organization;
         b.   Any person who owns or controls five percent (5%) or more of the
outstanding capital stock where the organization is a corporation;
         c.   Any person who has supervisory authority over employees and/or
operations of the business as it relates to the conduct of licensed social
games; and
         d.   Any person who has the authority to supervise the premises and
conditions under which licensed social games are conducted.
      2.   All persons required to supply information in the application shall
by oath or affirmation swear to the veracity of the information supplied by
them.
   B.   There shall be no right to renewal of a license; each application shall
be considered as it would be for a new license notwithstanding that the
applicant has previously been issued a license.
   C.   All application and renewal fees shall be set by city council
resolution.
   D.   Before issuance of a license, the city manager or designee shall confer
with the Morrow County sheriff's office who shall advise whether or not and on
what basis there exists law enforcement concerns about the particular
applicant's suitability to obtain a license. If the sheriff's office so
recommends, then no license shall be issued, provided that council may finally
determine, upon appeal by the applicant that license shall be issued. (Ord.
566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-6: SOCIAL GAMES LICENSE ISSUANCE; DENIAL:
   A.   An applicant for a social game license shall be denied if the city of
Heppner finds:
      1.   That within ten (10) years of the present application date, the
applicant or any person having a financial interest in the private business,
private club, or place of public accommodation, or any of the applicant's
officers or principal managing employees has been convicted of, or if evidence
exists that supports a finding by a preponderance of evidence, that such person
has committed any felony or misdemeanor under federal or state law or this
chapter relating to theft, fraud, gambling, controlled substances, or
prostitution activities; or
      2.   That the applicant or any person having a financial interest in the
private business, private club, or place of public accommodation, or any of the
applicant's officers or principal managing employees has falsified any
statement in the application for license.
      3.   That any violation of federal or state law or this chapter relating
to gambling has occurred on the premises described in the application. It shall
be prima facie evidence of such violation if any person has forfeited bail on,
pleaded nolo contendere to, or been convicted of any offense in violation of
federal or state law or this chapter relating to gambling or gambling devices
where the act charged occurred on the premises described in the license
application.
      4.   That the applicant or any person having a financial interest in the
private business, private club or place of public accommodation has permitted
the commission of any criminal act on the premises described in the application
or has failed to maintain the premises in conformance with all the requirements
of this chapter.
      5.   Any false or misleading information is supplied in the application
or any information requested is omitted from the application.
      6.   Any person financially interested in the business has had a license
in his or her name revoked or suspended three (3) or more times by the Oregon
liquor control commission, the last of which was in the last five (5) years.
   B.   If one or more grounds for denial of a license as described in
subsection A of this section are not established after investigation of the
application by the city of Heppner with assistance from the Morrow County
sheriff then the license shall be issued as soon as practicable. (Ord. 566-09,
7-13-2009)
3-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF THE LICENSEE:
   A.   Where a social game is allowed, the licensee shall have the duty to
supervise the games and see that they are played strictly in accordance with
this code and state law.
   B.   Licensee shall have the responsibility to ensure that the game is a
social game, between players only, and that there are no persons dealing on a
regular basis and that there is no one engaging in the game as a business or
commercial enterprise. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-8: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF SOCIAL GAMES LICENSE:
   A.   The license required under this chapter may be temporarily suspended
for up to thirty (30) days or revoked by the city manager for any reason that
would be grounds for denial of an application for a license. Additionally, such
license may be suspended or revoked when investigation reveals that:
      1.   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any violation of
federal or state law or city ordinance relating to minors, theft, fraud,
gambling, obscenity, controlled substances, prostitution, or alcoholic
beverages has occurred on or in licensed premises, or that any such violation
was connected in time and manner with the operation of such premises and
occurred within the proximity of same; or
      2.   Conducting of social games in such location as authorized by the
license causes disorderly or violent acts, litter, noise, vandalism, vehicular
or pedestrian traffic congestion, or other similar problems in the area around
the licensed premises.
   B.   Suspension or revocation shall become effective five (5) days after the
city makes reasonable attempts to notify the licensee in writing of the grounds
for revocation or suspension. If the licensee gives notice of appeal to the
city prior to the effective date of the revocation or suspension, suspension or
revocation shall not become effective until the appeal is finally determined.
If the licensee cannot be found after a reasonable effort to locate him or her
has been made, then such notice may be sent by certified mail to the license
address, or posted at the same, which shall be deemed acceptable alternative
means of service in lieu of personal service. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-9: APPEAL:
   A.   An applicant whose application for a license has been denied or a
licensee whose license has been denied renewal, has been suspended, or is to be
revoked may, within thirty (30) days after the notice of denial, suspension or
revocation is mailed, appeal in writing to the council.
   B.   The appeal shall state:
      1.   The name and address of the appellant.
      2.   The nature of the determination.
      3.   The reason the determination is incorrect.
      4.   What the correct determination of the appeal should be.
   C.   An appellant who fails to file the statement within the time permitted
waives objections, and the appeal shall be dismissed. If a notice of revocation
is appealed, the revocation does not take effect until final determination of
the appeal. The council shall hear and determine the appeal on the basis of the
written statement and any additional evidence it considers appropriate. The
appellant shall be given written notice of the hearing on the appeal fourteen
(14) days prior to the hearing. At the hearing, the appellant may present
testimony and oral argument, personally or by counsel, and any additional
evidence. The rules of evidence as used by courts of law do not apply, and the
decision of the council after the hearing is final. (Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-10: INSPECTION OF PREMISES LICENSED FOR SOCIAL GAMES:
All persons who have been issued licenses pursuant to this chapter shall permit
entry to premises where social games are conducted to any deputy sheriff or
city official, for the limited purpose of inspecting the premises and any
activities, records, or devices involved in such games to ensure compliance
with this chapter. Failure to permit an authorized inspection shall be grounds
for suspension or revocation of the involved social games license. (Ord. 566-
09, 7-13-2009)
3-2-11: NOTICE OF SOCIAL GAMES REQUIRED:
Where social games are conducted, each licensee shall continuously and
conspicuously post notice that is clearly readable and in letters at least one
inch (1") high that such games must be conducted in accordance with the
conditions set forth in this chapter, which shall be listed in their entirety.
(Ord. 566-09, 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 3
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Tax Imposed
3-3-3: Rules For Collection Of Tax By Operator
3-3-4: Operator's Duties
3-3-5: Exemptions
3-3-6: Operator's Registration Form
3-3-7: Certificate Of Authority
3-3-8: Collections, Returns And Payments
3-3-9: Delinquency Penalties
3-3-10: Deficiency Determinations
3-3-11: Redemption Petition
3-3-12: Fraud; Refusal To Collect; Evasion
3-3-13: Notice Of Determination
3-3-14: Operator Delay
3-3-15: Redetermination
3-3-16: Security For Collection Of Tax
3-3-17: Liens
3-3-18: Refunds
3-3-19: Records
3-3-20: Confidentiality
3-3-21: Disposition And Use Of Tax Revenues
3-3-22: Tax Review Committee
3-3-23: Appeals To Committee
3-3-24: Penalties
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall mean:
ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING: A system of accounting in which the operator enters the
rent due from a transient into the record when the rent is earned, whether or
not it is paid.
CASH ACCOUNTING: A system of accounting in which the operator does not enter
the rent due from a transient into the record until the rent is paid.
HOTEL: A structure or part of a structure that is occupied or designed for
occupancy by transients for lodging or sleeping, including a hotel, inn,
tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house,
rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, bed and
breakfast, manufactured home, recreational vehicle at a recreational vehicle
park or other area where a fee is charged for overnight camping or other
similar structure.
OCCUPANCY: Use or possession of, or the right to use or possess, a room in a
hotel for lodging or sleeping.
OPERATOR: A person who is the proprietor of a hotel in any capacity. When an
operator's functions are performed through a managing agent of a type other
than an employee, the managing agent shall also be considered an operator. For
purposes of this Chapter, compliance by either the operator or the managing
agent shall be considered compliance by both.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or private
dormitory, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate or another group or combination acting as a unit.
RENT: The gross rent, exclusive of other services.
TAX: Either the tax payable by the transient or the aggregate amount of taxes
due from an operator during the period for which the operator is required to
report collections.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The City Manager.
TAX COMMITTEE: The Heppner City Council acting in the capacity set forth in
Section
3-3-22 of this Chapter.
TRANSIENT: An individual who occupies or is entitled to occupy space in a hotel
for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or less, counting portions of days
as full days. The day a transient checks out of a hotel shall not be included
in determining the thirty (30) day period if the transient is not charged rent
for that day. A person occupying space in a hotel shall be considered a
transient until a period of thirty (30) days has expired unless there is an
agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a
longer period of occupancy or the tenant actually extends occupancy more than
thirty (30) consecutive days. A person who pays for lodging on a monthly basis
regardless of the number of days in the month shall not be considered a
transient. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-1992; amd. Ord. 517-96, 10-14-1996)
3-3-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A transient shall pay a tax in the amount of five percent (5%) of the rent for
the privilege of occupancy in a hotel in the City. The tax constitutes a debt
owed by the transient to the City, and the debt is extinguished only upon
payment of the tax by the operator to the City. The transient shall pay the tax
to the operator at the time rent is paid. The operator shall enter the tax into
the record when rent is collected if the operator keeps records on the cash
accounting basis and when earned if the operator keeps records on the accrual
accounting basis. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of
the tax shall be paid by the transient to the operator with each installment.
In all cases, rent paid or charged for occupancy excludes the sale of goods,
services or commodities. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-1992)
3-3-3: RULES FOR COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR:
   A.   Every operator renting space for lodging or sleeping shall collect a
tax from the occupant. The tax collected or accrued constitutes a debt owed by
the operator to the City.
   B.   In cases of credit or deferred payment of rent, the payment of tax to
the operator may be deferred until the rent is paid, and the operator shall not
be liable for the tax until credits are paid or deferred payments are made.
Adjustments may be made for uncollectible accounts.
   C.   The Tax Administrator shall enforce this Chapter.
   D.   For rent collected on portions of a dollar, fractions of a penny of tax
shall not be remitted. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-1992)
3-3-4: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
An operator shall collect the tax when the rent is collected from the
transient. The amount of tax shall be stated separately in the operator's
records and on the receipt given by the operator. An operator shall not
advertise that the tax will not be added to the rent, that a portion of it will
be assumed or absorbed by the operator or that a portion will be refunded,
except in the manner provided by this Chapter. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-1992)
3-3-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The tax shall not be imposed on:
   A.   An occupant staying more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   B.   An occupant whose rent is less than three dollars ($3.00) per day.
   C.   A person who rents a private home, vacation cabin or similar facility
from an owner who personally rents the facility incidental to the owner's
personal use.
   D.   Any person who pays rent for a hospital room, medical clinic,
convalescent home, nursing home, public institution owned or operated by a unit
of government, to a shelter home, half-way house or rehabilitation facility.
(Ord. 493-92, 4-13-1992)
3-3-6: OPERATOR'S REGISTRATION FORM:
   A.   An operator of a hotel shall register with the Tax Administrator, on a
form provided by the Administrator, within fifteen (15) days after beginning
business or within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof.
   B.   The registration shall include:
      1.   The name under which the operator transacts or intends to transact
business.
      2.   The location of the hotel.
      3.   Any other information the Tax Administrator may require to
facilitate collection of the tax.
      4.   The signature of the operator.
   C.   Failure to register does not relieve the operator from collecting the
tax or a person from paying the tax. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-7: CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Tax Administrator shall issue a certificate of authority to the
registrant within ten (10) days after the registration.
   B.   Certificates are nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be
surrendered immediately to the Tax Administrator on cessation of business at
the location named or when the business is sold or transferred.
   C.   Each certificate shall state the place of business to which it applies
and shall be prominently displayed.
   D.   The certificate shall state:
      1.   The name of the operator.
      2.   The address of the hotel.
      3.   The date when the certificate was issued.
      4.   "This transient occupancy certificate signifies that the person
named on the certificate has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient Room
Tax Ordinance of the City of Heppner by registering with the Tax Administrator
for the purpose of collecting the room tax imposed by the City of Heppner and
remitting the tax to the Tax Administrator". (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-8: COLLECTIONS, RETURNS AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   The taxes collected by an operator are payable to the Tax Administrator
on a quarterly basis on the fifteenth day of the following month for the
preceding three (3) months and are delinquent on the last day of the month in
which they are due. The initial return may be less than the three (3) months
preceding the due date. The quarters are:
 
1st quarter July, August, September
2nd quarter October, November, December
3rd quarter January, February, March
4th quarter April, May, June
 
   B.   A return showing tax collections for the preceding quarter shall be
filed with the Tax Administrator, on a form prescribed by the Tax
Administrator, before the sixteenth day of the month following each collection
quarter.
   C.   The operator may withhold ten percent (10%) of the tax to cover the
expense of collecting and remitting the tax.
   D.   Returns shall show the amount of tax collected or due for the related
period. The Tax Administrator may require returns to show the total rentals on
which the tax was collected or due, gross receipts of the operator for the
period, a detailed explanation of any discrepancy between the amounts, and the
amount of rentals exempt.
   E.   The operator shall deliver the return and the tax due to the Tax
Administrator's office. If the return is mailed, the postmark shall be
considered the date of delivery for determining delinquencies.
   F.   For good cause, the Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing a
return or paying the tax for not more than one month. Further extensions may be
granted only by the Tax Review Committee. An operator to whom an extension is
granted shall pay interest at the rate of five-tenths of one percent (0.5%) per
month on the amount of tax due, without proration for a fraction of a month. If
a return is not filed and if the tax and interest due are not paid by the end
of the extension granted, the interest shall become a part of the tax for
computation of the penalties prescribed in Section
3-3-9 of this Chapter.
   G.   The Tax Administrator may require returns and payment of the taxes for
other than quarterly periods in individual cases to ensure payment or to
facilitate collection by the City. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-9: DELINQUENCY PENALTIES:
   A.   An operator who has not been granted an extension of time for
remittance of tax due and who fails to remit the tax prior to delinquency shall
pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax due in addition to the tax.
   B.   An operator who has not been granted an extension of time for
remittance of tax due and who fails to pay a delinquent remittance before the
expiration of thirty one (31) days following the date on which the remittance
became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of fifteen percent
(15%) of the tax due, the amount of the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty
first imposed.
   C.   If the Tax Administrator determines that nonpayment of a remittance is
due to fraud or intent to evade the tax, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%)
of the tax shall be added to the penalties stated in subsections A and B of
this Section.
   D.   In addition to the penalties imposed by this Section, an operator who
fails to remit the required tax shall pay interest at the rate of five-tenths
of one percent (0.5%) per month, without proration for portions of a month, on
the tax due, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the tax first
became delinquent until paid.
   E.   Each penalty imposed and the interest accrued under provisions of this
Section shall be merged with and become part of the tax required to be paid.
   F.   An operator who fails to remit the tax within the required time may
petition the Tax Committee for waiver and refund of the penalty or a portion of
it. The Tax Committee may, if good cause is shown, direct a refund of the
penalty or a portion of it. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-10: DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   A.   In making a determination that the returns are incorrect, the Tax
Administrator may determine the amount required to be paid on the basis of the
facts contained in the return or on the basis of any other information.
   B.   Deficiency determination may be made on the amount due for one or more
than one period. The determined amount shall be payable immediately on service
of notice, after which the determined amount is delinquent. Penalties on
deficiencies shall be applied as provided in Section
3-3-9 of this Chapter.
   C.   In making a determination, the Tax Administrator may offset
overpayments that have been made against a deficiency for a subsequent period
or against penalties and interest on the deficiency. The interest on the
deficiency shall be computed as provided in Section
3-3-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-11: REDEMPTION PETITION:
A determination becomes payable immediately upon receipt of notice and becomes
final within fourteen (14) days after the Tax Administrator has given notice.
However, the operator may petition for redemption and refund by filing a
petition before the determination becomes final. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-12: FRAUD; REFUSAL TO COLLECT; EVASION:
   A.   If an operator fails or refuses to collect the tax, make the report or
remit the tax or makes a fraudulent return or otherwise wilfully attempts to
evade the tax payment, the Tax Administrator shall obtain facts and information
on which to base an estimate of the tax due. After determining the tax due and
the interest and penalties, the Tax Administrator shall give notice of the
total amount due.
   B.   Determination and notice shall be made and mailed within three (3)
years after discovery of fraud, intent to evade, failure or refusal to collect
the taxes or failure to file a return. The determination becomes payable
immediately on receipt of notice and becomes final fourteen (14) days after the
Tax Administrator has given notice.
   C.   The operator may petition for redemption and refund if the petition is
filed before the determination becomes final. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-13: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION:
   A.   The Tax Administrator shall give the operator a written notice of the
determination. If notice is mailed, it shall be addressed to the operator at
the address that appears on the records of the Tax Administrator, and service
is complete when the notice is deposited in the post office.
   B.   Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade the tax, a deficiency
determination shall be made and notice mailed within three (3) years after the
last day of the month following the close of the quarterly period for which the
determination has been made or within three (3) years after the return is
filed, whichever is later. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-14: OPERATOR DELAY:
If the Tax Administrator believes that collection of the tax will be
jeopardized by delay, or if a determination will be jeopardized by delay, the
Tax Administrator shall determine the tax to be collected and note facts
concerning the delay on the determination. The determined amount is payable
immediately after service of notice. After payment has been made, the operator
may petition for redemption and refund of the determination if the petition is
filed within fourteen (14) days from the date of service of notice by the Tax
Administrator. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-15: REDETERMINATION:
   A.   An operator against whom a determination is made under Section
3-3-10 of this Chapter or a person directly interested may petition for a
redetermination, redemption and refund within the time required in Section
3-3-14 of this Chapter. If a petition for redetermination and refund is not
filed within the time required, the determination is final on expiration of the
allowable time.
   B.   If a petition for redetermination and refund is filed within the
allowable period, the Tax Administrator shall reconsider the determination and,
if the operator requested a hearing in the petition, shall grant the hearing
and give the operator fourteen (14) days' notice of the time and place of the
hearing. The Tax Administrator may continue the hearing if necessary.
   C.   The Tax Administrator may change the amount of the determination as a
result of the hearing. If an increase is determined, the increase is payable
immediately after the hearing.
   D.   The decision of the Tax Administrator on a petition for redetermination
becomes final fourteen (14) days after service of notice on the petitioner
unless appeal of the decision is filed with the Tax Committee within fourteen
(14) days after notice is served.
   E.   A petition for redetermination or an appeal is not effective unless the
operator has complied with the payment provisions. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-16: SECURITY FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The Tax Administrator may require an operator to deposit security in
the form of cash, bond or other security. The amount of security shall be fixed
by the Tax Administrator and shall be not greater than twice the operator's
estimated average quarterly liability for the period for which the operator
files returns or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), whichever amount is less.
   B.   Within three (3) years after the tax becomes payable or within three
(3) years after a determination becomes final, the Tax Administrator may bring
an action in the name of the City in the courts of this State, another state or
the United States to collect the amount delinquent and penalties and interest.
(Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-17: LIENS:
   A.   The tax, interest, penalty and filing fees paid to the Tax
Administrator and any advertising costs incurred when the tax becomes
delinquent shall be a lien from the date of its recording with the County Clerk
until the tax is paid. The lien shall be superior to all subsequently recorded
liens on all tangible personal property in the operator's hotel. The lien may
be foreclosed and the necessary property may be sold to discharge the lien.
   B.   Notice of the lien shall be issued by the Tax Administrator when the
operator has defaulted in payment of the tax, interest and penalty. A copy of
the notice shall be sent by certified mail to the operator.
   C.   Personal property subject to the lien may be sold at public auction
after twenty one (21) days' notice published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City.
   D.   A lien for the tax, interest and penalty shall be released by the Tax
Administrator when the full amount has been paid to the City. The operator or
persons making the payment shall receive a receipt stating that the full amount
of the tax, interest and penalty has been paid, that the lien is released and
that the record of the lien is satisfied. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-18: REFUNDS:
   A.   By City to Operator: When the tax, penalty or interest has been paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the Tax Administrator, it may be refunded if a written verified claim stating
the specific reason for the claim is filed within three (3) years from the date
of payment. The claim shall be submitted on forms provided by the Tax
Administrator. If the claim is approved, the excess amount may be refunded to
the operator or it may be credited to an amount payable by the operator and any
balance refunded.
   B.   By City to Transient: If the tax has been collected by the operator and
deposited with the Tax Administrator and it is later determined that the tax
was erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator, it
may be refunded to the transient if a written verified claim stating the
specific reason for the claim is filed with the Tax Administrator within three
(3) years after the date of payment.
   C.   By Operator to Transient: If the tax has been collected by the operator
and it is later determined that the transient occupied the hotel for a period
exceeding thirty (30) days without interruption, the operator shall refund the
tax to the transient. The operator shall account for the collection and refund
to the Tax Administrator. If the operator has remitted the tax prior to refund
or credit to the transient, the operator shall be entitled to a corresponding
refund. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-19: RECORDS:
   A.   Required from Operators: Every operator shall keep guest records,
accounting books and records of room rentals for a period of three (3) years
and six (6) months.
   B.   Examination of Records: During normal business hours and after
notifying the operator, the Tax Administrator may examine books, papers and
accounting records related to room rentals to verify the accuracy of a return
or, if no return is made, to determine the amount to be paid. (Ord. 493-92, 4-
13-92)
3-3-20: CONFIDENTIALITY:
The Tax Administrator or a person having an administrative or clerical duty
under the provisions of this Chapter shall not make known in any manner the
business affairs, operations or information obtained by an investigation of
records and equipment of a person required to file a return or pay a transient
occupancy tax or a person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty
or the amount or source of income, profits, losses or expenditures contained in
a statement or application or permit a statement or application or a copy of
either or a book containing an abstract or particulars to be seen or examined
by any person. However, nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent:
   A.   Disclosure to or examination of records and equipment by a City
official, employee or agent for collecting taxes for the purpose of
administering or enforcing the provisions or collecting the taxes imposed by
this Chapter.
   B.   Disclosure, after filing a written request to the taxpayers, receivers,
trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly
interested, of information concerning tax paid, unpaid tax, amount of tax
required to be collected or interest and penalties. However, the City Attorney
shall approve each disclosure and the Tax Administrator may refuse to make a
disclosure referred to in this subsection when, in the Tax Administrator's
opinion, the public interest would suffer.
   C.   Disclosure of names and addresses of persons making returns.
   D.   Disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or business
done in the City. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-21: DISPOSITION AND USE OF TAX REVENUES:
All revenues received from the tax shall be deposited into a fund known as the
Chamber of Commerce Fund. The Tax Administrator's office shall be allocated ten
percent (10%) of the revenue collected for administration of this Chapter. The
remaining revenue shall be spent for the Heppner Chamber of Commerce Manager's
salary. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-22: TAX REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   City Council Act as Tax Review Committee: The Council shall serve as
the Tax Review Committee and shall keep a record of its transactions.
   B.   Duties: The Committee shall:
      1.   Hear and determine appeals of orders or decisions of the Tax
Administrator and may prescribe the forms, rules and regulations relating to
appeals. The Committee may affirm, modify or reverse a decision or dismiss an
appeal. In reviewing a decision of the Tax Administrator, the Committee may
take evidence and make an investigation. It shall give notice of its
determination in the manner prescribed for serving notice of a Tax
Administrator's decision and shall file a certified copy of each determination
with the Tax Administrator. A determination becomes final after fourteen (14)
days and becomes due, subject to interest and penalties, and enforceable by the
Tax Administrator in the same manner as an order or decision of the Tax
Administrator.
      2.   Approve, modify or disapprove all forms, rules and regulations
prescribed by the Tax Administrator if the forms, rules and regulations are
challenged in the administration and enforcement of this Chapter.
      3.   Hear and determine protests made to a form, rule or regulation
approved or prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      4.   Prescribe rules for extensions and, for good cause, grant extensions
of time in excess of one month for filing a return or paying the tax.
      5.   Make investigations regarding imposition and administration of the
tax. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-23: APPEALS TO COMMITTEE:
A person aggrieved by a decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal to the
Committee by filing a notice of appeal with the Tax Administrator within
fourteen (14) days of service or mailing of the notice of a decision. The Tax
Administrator shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal, as prescribed
by the Committee in its rules and regulations and shall give the appellant
fourteen (14) days' written notice of the time and place of the hearing. (Ord.
493-92, 4-13-92)
3-3-24: PENALTIES:
Failure to register pursuant to this Chapter is punishable as a Class A
infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code in addition to payment of tax and penalties assessed for
nonpayment. Offenses under this Chapter shall be tried in Municipal Court as a
violation and not as a crime. There is no right to a jury trial or court
appointed counsel. (Ord. 493-92, 4-13-92; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MARIJUANA OPERATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Ban Declared
3-4-3: Exception
3-4-4: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
MARIJUANA: The plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae, any part of the plant
Cannabis family Cannabaceae and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family
Cannabaceae.
MARIJUANA PROCESSING SITE: An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to process marijuana.
MARIJUANA PROCESSOR: An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission
to process marijuana.
MARIJUANA PRODUCER: An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission
to manufacture, plant, cultivate, grow or harvest marijuana.
MARIJUANA RETAILER: An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission
to sell marijuana items to a consumer in this State.
MARIJUANA WHOLESALER: An entity licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control
Commission to purchase items in this State for resale to a person other than a
consumer.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: An entity registered with the Oregon Health
Authority to transfer marijuana. (Ord. 577-15, 11-9-2015)
3-4-2: BAN DECLARED:
As provided in section 133 of House Bill 3400 (2015), and section 28 of Senate
Bill 1057 (2017), the City of Heppner hereby prohibits the establishment of the
following in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the City:
   A.   Marijuana processing sites registered under Oregon Revised Statutes
475B.435;
   B.   Medical marijuana dispensaries registered under Oregon Revised Statutes
475B.450;
   C.   Marijuana producers that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.070;
   D.   Marijuana processors that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.090;
   E.   Marijuana wholesalers that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.100;
   F.   Marijuana retailers that hold a license issue under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.110;
   G.   Marijuana producers that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.070 and that the Oregon Liquor Control Commission has designated
as an exclusively medical licensee under section 24 of Senate Bill 1057(2017);
   H.   Marijuana processors that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.090 and that the commission has designated as an exclusively
medical licensee under section 24 of Senate Bill 1057(2017);
   I.   Marijuana wholesalers that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.100 and that the commission has designated as an exclusively
medical licensee under section 26 of Senate Bill 1057(2017);
   J.   Marijuana retailers that hold a license issued under Oregon Revised
Statutes 475B.110 and that the commission has designated as an exclusively
medical licensee under section 27 of Senate Bill 1057(2017); or
   K.   Any combination of the entities described above. (Ord. 580-17, 9-11-
2017)
3-4-3: EXCEPTION:
The prohibition set out in this chapter does not apply to a marijuana
processing site or medical marijuana dispensary that meets the conditions set
out in subsections 6 or 7 of section 133, section 136, or section 137 of House
Bill 3400 (2015). (Ord. 577-15, 11-9-2015)
3-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be assessed a Class B infraction pursuant to title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 577-15, 11-9-2015)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Purpose, Policy And Scope
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Franchise And Exceptions
4-1-5: Billing, Collection And Rate Regulations
4-1-6: Public Responsibility
4-1-7: Administration And Enforcement
4-1-8: Nuisance Abatement; Solid Waste Accumulation And Fire Hazards
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE and shall
be cited herein as "this chapter". (Ord. 563-08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-2: PURPOSE, POLICY AND SCOPE:
It is declared to be public policy of the city to regulate solid waste
management in order to:
   A.   Ensure safe, efficient, economical and comprehensive solid waste
service.
   B.   Ensure fair and equitable consumer rates and prohibit rate preferences
or other practices that might be discriminatory.
   C.   Conserve energy and material resources, reduce solid waste, promote
material and energy recovery in all forms.
   D.   Provide for technologically and economically feasible resource recovery
by and through the franchise on a first option basis.
   E.   Eliminate overlapping service and thereby increase efficiency and
decrease truck noise, street wear, energy waste, air pollution and public
inconvenience.
   F.   Protect public health and the environment.
   G.   Protect against improper and dangerous handling of infectious and
hazardous wastes.
   H.   Provide a public service standard.
   I.   Provide a basis and incentive for investment in solid waste equipment,
facilities and technology.
   J.   Comply with Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 459 and other state,
federal and local laws and regulations relating to solid waste handling and
disposal. (Ord. 563-08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CITY: The city of Heppner.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
FRANCHISEE: The person or corporation granted a franchise by subsection
4-1-4C of this chapter or a subsequent ordinance or a subcontractor to such
person.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any waste:
   A.   Defined as hazardous waste by or pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes
chapter 459; or
   B.   Defined as hazardous waste by another governmental unit having
jurisdiction.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Biological waste including medical waste described as:
   A.   Blood and blood products, excretions, exudates, secretions, suctionings
and other body fluids that cannot be directly discarded into a municipal sewer
system, including solid or liquid waste from renal dialysis and waste materials
reasonably contaminated with blood or body fluids.
   B.   Cultures and stocks of etiologic agents and associated biologicals,
including specimen cultures and disks and devices used to transfer, inoculate
and mix cultures, wastes from production of biologicals and serums and
discarded live and attenuated vaccines, but does not include throat and urine
cultures.
   C.   Sharps that have been removed from their original sterile containers,
including needles, IV tubing and needles attached, scalpel blades, lancets,
glass tubes that could be broken during handling and syringes.
   D.   Pathological waste, including biopsy materials and all human tissues,
anatomical parts that emanate from surgery, obstetrical procedures, autopsy and
laboratory procedures and animal carcasses exposed to pathogens in research,
the bedding of the animals and other waste from such animals. Pathological
waste does not include formaldehyde, other preservative agents or hazardous
waste.
   E.   Once infectious wastes as defined in subsections A through D of this
definition have been burned in a state approved incinerator, it is no longer to
be considered infectious waste under this chapter.
LANDFILL: A disposal site for solid waste approved by the Oregon department of
environmental quality and meeting all federal and state standards for such a
facility.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, trust, firm,
estate, joint venture or other private legal entity or any public agency.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Any material or group of materials that can be collected
and sold for recycling at a net cost equal to or less than the cost of
collection and disposal of the same material.
RESOURCE RECOVERY: The process of obtaining useful material or energy resources
from solid waste, including reuse, recycling and other materials recovery or
energy recovery of or from solid waste.
SERVICE: The collection, transportation or disposal of or resource recovery
from solid waste.
SOLID WASTE: All solid or semisolid waste including, without limitation,
garbage, rubbish, refuse, trash, ashes or swill; wastepaper, corrugated or
cardboard; industrial, governmental or institutional wastes; discarded home or
industrial appliances, equipment or furniture; discarded or abandoned vehicles,
vehicle parts or tires; manure; vegetable or animal wastes; dead animals; and
other wastes.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT: The prevention of or reduction of solid waste,
management of service and facilities and equipment necessary and convenient to
such activities.
TIRE: A continuous solid or pneumatic rubber covering and encircling the wheel
of a vehicle in which a person or property is transported or by which they may
be drawn on a highway. A passenger tire is a tire with less than an eighteen
inch (18") rim diameter. A truck tire is a tire with a rim diameter of between
eighteen inches (18") and twenty four and five-tenths inches (24.5"). This does
not include tires on the following:
   A.   A device moved only by human power.
   B.   A device used only upon fixed rails or tracks.
   C.   A motorcycle.
   D.   All-terrain vehicle, including, but not limited to, three (3) wheel and
four (4) wheel ATVs, dune buggies and other similar vehicles. All-terrain
vehicles do not include jeeps, pickups and other four (4) wheel drive vehicles
that may be registered and licensed and driven on public roads in Oregon.
   E.   A device used only for farming, except a farm truck.
WASTE: Material that is no longer directly usable by the source, generator or
producer of the material, which material is to be disposed of or be resource
recovered by another person.
   A.   The fact that all or any part of the materials may have value and thus
be recovered does not remove them from this definition.
   B.   The fact that the source, generator or producer of materials has
separated or segregated such material from other waste does not remove the
materials from this definition. (Ord. 563-08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-4: FRANCHISE AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Persons And Practices Exempt From This Franchise: Nothing in this
chapter requires a franchise from the following persons for the following
businesses or practices:
      1.   The collection, transportation and reuse of repairable or cleanable
discards by a private charitable organization regularly engaged in such
business or activity including, without limitation, Salvation Army, St. Vincent
de Paul, Goodwill and similar organizations.
      2.   The collection, transportation and reuse or recycling of materials
which have been separated by type, by a religious, charitable, benevolent or
fraternal organization, which organization was not organized for solid waste
management purposes and which organization is using the activity for
fundraising or environmental protection services.
      3.   The collection, transportation or redemption of returnable beverage
containers under Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 459 and that portion thereof
commonly known as the "bottle bill".
      4.   The generator or producer who transports and disposes of waste as an
incidental part of regularly carrying on the business or service of auto
wrecking, to the extent licensed by the state of Oregon; demolition, land
clearing or construction, janitorial service, street sweeping, auto body
recovery or septic tank pumping or sludge collection. Janitorial service does
not include cleanup of accumulated or stored wastes of customers other than
those generated by the service.
      5.   The transportation by a person of his own solid waste generated or
produced by such person to a disposal site, resource recovery site or market.
In the case of a nonowner occupied property, the waste is generated or produced
and is owned by the occupant and not by the landlord, property owner,
association of property owners or the agent of such landlord, property owner or
association. Except that when such property is vacated, solid waste remaining
on the property shall become the property of the landowner. Any transportation
of solid waste allowed under this subsection shall comply with the provisions
of subsection
4-1-6A of this chapter.
      6.   The purchase and transportation of scrap metals and the business of
rendering.
      7.   The providing of service for hazardous and infectious waste.
      8.   The providing of service for sewerage, cesspool or septic waste.
   B.   Practices Prohibited Without A Franchise: Unless exempted by subsection
A of this section or franchised pursuant to subsection C of this section, no
person shall:
      1.   Solicit for service customers; or
      2.   Advertise the providing of services; or
      3.   Provide service in the city.
   C.   Grant Of Exclusive Franchise: There is hereby granted to Miller & Sons
Excavating the exclusive right, privilege and franchise to provide service
within the city limits as of November 1, 2007, and any area that may be
hereafter annexed to the city and, for that purpose, to utilize the streets and
facilities of the city.
   D.   Franchise Term: The rights, privileges and franchise herein are granted
until December 31, 2011. The term shall commence on November 1, 2007, or such
later date as the terms of the franchise ordinance are accepted by the
franchisee and all supporting and required documentation has been supplied to
the city. All renewal terms for this agreement shall be ten (10) years. A
letter from the city reoffering the franchise and an acceptance of those terms
by a written response from the franchisee shall suffice to renew this
agreement. Neither party is under an obligation to renew the franchise at its
expiration.
   E.   Franchisee Responsibility:
      1.   The franchisee shall:
         a.   Dispose of the solid waste at a site approved by the Oregon
department of environmental quality or otherwise recycle or resource recover
all or any part thereof. All disposal and recycling shall be done in accordance
with all applicable federal, state and local statutes and regulations.
         b.   Provide and keep in force general liability insurance, and public
liability insurance on each vehicle with combined single limits of at least
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) and show the city as an additional
insured with combined single limits of at least five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00). The franchisee shall furnish to the city a certificate of
insurance or a copy of the declaration page, which shows the city as an
additional insured. The policy shall provide that it not be canceled without
thirty (30) days' written notice to the city. The liability limits may be
increased by resolution of the council at any time when the franchisee submits
a request for rate review. The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city from any claim for liability or damage, which may arise or result from
franchisee's actions pursuant to this chapter. The franchisee shall also
provide environmental or pollution insurance coverage in the amount sufficient
to protect the city from environmental claims, unless this provision is waived
by the city.
         c.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, the
franchisee shall file with the city recorder a written acceptance of the
franchise by endorsing acceptance on a copy of the ordinance codified in this
chapter. Included with this acceptance shall be proof of liability insurance,
environmental or pollution insurance if required, and proof of a letter of
credit sufficient to meet the requirements of subsection E1f of this section.
         d.   Provide sufficient collection vehicles, containers, facilities,
personnel and finances to provide all types of necessary service or subcontract
to provide such service.
         e.   Respond to any written complaint on service and try to respond to
any complaint relayed by the city either by telephone, in person or writing.
         f.   Provide a letter of credit in the amount of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) guarantying upon the full and faithful performance of this
chapter. In the event that the council finds that the franchisee has adequate
experience and otherwise meets the requirements to guarantee service, it may
waive, by resolution, all or part of the bond requirement.
         g.   Be an independent contractor. Franchisee's employees are solely
the employees of franchisee and in no sense either the direct or borrowed
employees of the city. City is not, and shall not be, subject to any obligation
or duty to furnish or pay workers' compensation or other insurance for
franchisee or franchisee's employees. Franchisee retains the right of directing
and controlling both franchisee's employees and equipment.
         h.   Pick up solid waste from all residential customers who request
service with the franchisee for service once a week. Franchisee is required to
provide pick up service for any customer within the city who so requests unless
the customer is in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
         i.   Franchisee must provide pick up service for all business,
industrial and commercial customers who request service, provided they are not
in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
         j.   Use modern type compactor trucks and drop box trucks in providing
service and may also use satellite or open vehicles. If a solid waste
collection vehicle becomes unsuitable for service due to unsafe condition,
improper maintenance or obsolescence, the council may order replacement of the
vehicle within sixty (60) days. The vehicles used in collection shall be kept
in good and safe operating condition, kept clean and be so loaded and operated
as to prevent solid waste from escaping onto public ways or public or private
lands adjacent thereto.
         k.   Exercise due care to prevent injury to public or private
property.
         l.   Pick up of solid waste will be provided according to a regular
weekly schedule. A copy of the schedule will be provided to the city.
Franchisee will provide service according to the schedule unless he obtains
city approval to do otherwise. The franchisee will provide customers written
notice forty eight (48) hours in advance of deviations from the regular
schedule. If delay is due to unforeseeable breakdowns, such delay shall be no
more than twenty four (24) hours. The franchisee will put notice at the post
office and publish on the Heppner local area TV channel of all delays.
      2.   The franchisee is not required to store, collect, transport,
transfer, dispose of or resource recover any hazardous or infectious waste;
provided, however, that the franchisee may provide such service outside this
chapter in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
      3.   The franchisee may subcontract with others to provide a portion of
the service where the franchisee does not have the necessary equipment or
service. Such a subcontract shall not relieve the franchisee of responsibility
for providing and maintaining service and for compliance with this chapter.
      4.   The franchisee shall not:
         a.   Give any rate preference to any person unless approved by the
city.
         b.   Transfer this franchise or any portion thereof to other persons
without prior written approval of the council.
   F.   Supervision: Service under the franchise and other requirements of this
chapter shall be under the supervision of the city manager. Franchisee shall,
at reasonable times, permit inspection of his facilities, equipment and
personnel providing service.
   G.   Suspension, Modification Or Revocation Of Franchise:
      1.   Failure to provide the necessary service or otherwise comply with
the provisions of this chapter after written notice and reasonable opportunity
to comply shall be grounds for modification, suspension or revocation of the
franchise.
      2.   After written notice from the council that such grounds exist, the
franchisee shall have twenty (20) days from the date of mailing of the notice
in which to comply or request a public hearing before the council.
      3.   At the public hearing, the franchisee and other interested persons
shall have an opportunity to present oral, written or documentary evidence to
the council.
      4.   If the franchisee fails to comply within the time specified or if
the council hearing is held, the council may suspend, modify or revoke the
franchise or make such action contingent upon continued noncompliance.
   H.   Preventing Interruption Of Service: The franchisee agrees as a
condition of his franchise that whenever the council determines that a failure
of service is creating an immediate and serious health hazard or serious public
nuisance, the council may authorize another person to temporarily provide
service.
   I.   Termination Of Service: The franchisee shall not terminate service to
all or a portion of his customers unless:
      1.   The street or road access is blocked and there is no alternate
route; or
      2.   Excessive weather conditions render service unduly hazardous to
persons providing service or such termination is caused by accidents or
casualties caused by an act of God, public enemy or vandalism; or
      3.   A customer has not complied with subsection A of this section or has
not paid for service provided or the city has requested the franchisee to
discontinue service; or
      4.   In the event of a foreseen unsafe situation which could result in
injury or accident; or
      5.   The occasion of strike or riot which makes the giving of service
unduly risky to service personnel; or
      6.   Ordered by a legislative, administrative or judicial body having
jurisdiction; or
      7.   The service at a particular location would jeopardize the safety of
the franchisee's driver and/or collection vehicle or of the motoring public; or
      8.   The customer has not provided reasonable access to the pick up point
of the solid waste containers so that there is no hazard or risk to the person
and/or equipment providing service.
      9.   When the above conditions are removed or abated, service shall
immediately resume unless otherwise determined by this chapter.
      10.   The franchisee shall not terminate service to the city unless
ninety (90) days' written notice has been given and approval is obtained from
the council. Granting of approval is discretionary with the council. (Ord. 563-
08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-5: BILLING, COLLECTION AND RATE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rate Regulation:
      1.   Attached to the ordinance codified herein on file is the current
rate schedule in effect for the franchisee. Said rates shall remain in effect
until such time as the city council adjusts those rates by resolution. As
provided below, the franchisee may request a rate review to determine if an
adjustment to the rate schedule is justified to compensate for increasing
operating costs and other costs.
      2.   Changes in the rate schedule shall be made by a resolution of the
council. In determining rates, the council shall give due consideration to
current and projected revenue and expense, actual overhead expense, the costs
of acquiring and replacing equipment, a reasonable return to the franchisee for
doing business, the services of management, the costs of providing landfill
requirements, other services, research and development and such other factors
as the council deems relevant. The council may consider rates charged by other
persons performing the same or similar service.
      3.   The franchisee may call for a rate review as provided in subsection
A1 of this section by written application for rate adjustment to the council
with accompanying justification for the proposed rate adjustment.
      4.   The council shall consider the request for the rate adjustment at a
regular council meeting or a special council meeting called for the purpose,
within thirty (30) days after receiving the request from the franchisee.
Council shall give the franchisee at least ten (10) days' written notice of
said meeting and the franchisee shall present arguments and documents in
support of the need for the requested rate adjustment. The franchisee shall
provide the city quarterly a customer list containing the amounts charged the
customers for services. The franchisee shall make available to the city manager
or other authorized personnel the opportunity to inspect all franchisee's books
and records relating to services performed within the city. Within thirty (30)
days of the council meeting at which the request for rate adjustment is heard,
the council shall act on the request by either rejecting or granting in whole
or in part the request.
   B.   Billing, Collection And Franchise Fee:
      1.   The franchisee shall bill for and collect the solid waste service
fee and shall pay the city five percent (5%) of the franchise monies collected
from city customers. Such payment shall be on a quarterly basis. At the end of
the city fiscal year, the franchisee shall provide the city a statement
specifying the number of residential, commercial and other services performed
by the franchisee during the previous year and all revenues derived from those
services. If requested by the city manager, the franchisee shall provide the
city the opportunity to inspect all the franchisee's books and records relating
to services performed within the city.
      2.   The franchisee shall provide for a fifteen percent (15%) discount
for low income individuals for their first two (2) cans. A low income
individual is one who is eligible for a discount rate on sewer and water
charges from the city. (Ord. 563-08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-6: PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Public Responsibilities Enumerated: In addition to and not in lieu of
compliance with Oregon Revised Statutes chapter 459 and other applicable laws
and regulations:
      1.   No person shall place hazardous or infectious waste for collection
or disposal by franchisee. This shall not apply to minor quantities of waste
generated at or by a single-family residential unit, unless prohibited by law.
      2.   No unauthorized person shall place materials in or remove materials
from a solid waste collection container without permission of the owner of the
container. For the purpose of this section, the franchisee is the "owner" of
containers supplied by the franchisee. The franchisee shall be considered an
authorized person within the meaning of this section.
      3.   No unauthorized person shall remove solid waste placed out for
collection and resource recovery.
      4.   Unless permitted by the franchisee, no person shall install or use
any container exceeding forty five (45) gallons in capacity for manual pick up
by franchisee other than those supplied by franchisee. The purpose of this
subsection is to ensure safe equipment, sizes and weights and facilitate
franchisee utilizing the most efficient collection equipment and methods.
      5.   The franchisee is not required to service an underground container
unless the person responsible for it places the container aboveground prior to
the time for collection.
      6.   All containers will be visible from the street and be located within
twenty five feet (25') of the street right of way on the designated collection
day.
      7.   No container designed for mechanical pick up shall exceed safe
loading weights or volumes as established by the franchisee to protect service
workers, the customer, the public and the collection equipment.
      8.   No container designed for manual pick up shall exceed forty five
(45) gallons in size or sixty (60) pounds in weight when loaded and eighteen
(18) pounds when empty. Such container shall be made of material that is fire
resistant, rodentproof and not subject to cracking or splitting and have proper
handholds and bales. Containers must be kept in good condition by the customer.
      9.   Customers using mechanically emptied containers furnished by
franchisee shall provide a smooth, level, hard surface area approved by the
franchisee for the container.
      10.   Unless special service or service equipment is provided by the
franchisee for handling unconfined waste, materials such as rubbish and refuse,
brush, leaves, tree cuttings and other debris for manual pick up and collection
shall be in securely tied bundles or in boxes, sacks or other receptacles, and
solid waste so bundled, tied or contained shall not exceed sixty (60) pounds in
weight.
      11.   Where a customer requires an unusual volume of service or a special
type of container requiring substantial investment in equipment, the franchisee
may require a contract with the customer as necessary to finance and assure
amortization of such equipment. The purpose of this provision is to assure that
such equipment not become a charge against other ratepayers who are not
benefited. In no event shall such contract be in effect longer than this
chapter.
      12.   Stationary compacting devices for solid wastes shall comply with
federal and state safety standards and provide adequate protection to the user
and franchisee.
      13.   Any vehicle used by a person to transport solid waste shall be so
loaded and operated as to prevent the wastes from dropping, sifting, leaking,
blowing or otherwise escaping from the vehicle onto any public right of way or
lands adjacent.
      14.   No person shall block access to any container or drop box or roll-
off box supplied by franchisee.
      15.   Every person who generates or produces waste shall have removed all
putrescible wastes at least every seven (7) days. More frequent removal may be
required where a facility or service involves the public health. All wastes
shall be removed at sufficient frequency as to prevent health hazards or
pollution.
      16.   All putrescible materials shall be stored in manually emptied
containers supplied by the generator or producer or in mechanically emptied
containers or drop boxes supplied by the franchisee. When manually or
mechanically emptied containers are used, they shall be covered except during
loading and emptying. When drop boxes are used, all putrescible materials shall
be placed in plastic bags and tied.
      17.   The producer or generator of waste shall clean containers and shall
keep the area around such containers free of accumulated wastes. The franchisee
shall provide maintenance as required to containers supplied by franchisee. For
containers supplied by customer, plastic liners are recommended, but not
required.
      18.   Approved disposal methods shall be as follows:
         a.   No person shall burn, dump, bury, collect, remove or in any other
manner dispose of solid wastes upon any street, alley, public place or private
property within the city except as provided in this chapter or burning by
permit under chapter 2 of this title.
         b.   Wastepaper, boxes, rubbish and debris, brush, leaves, grass, wood
and cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens (but excepting paper,
cardboard or wood containers in commercial quantities), may be burned on
private property only if the method of burning is approved by the city and is
done in accordance with the Oregon department of environmental quality rules
and regulations.
      19.   All garbage must be drained of excess liquids and wrapped.
      20.   Ashes will be taken only if placed in a plastic bag and tied.
   B.   Payment For Service: Any person who receives service from the
franchisee shall be responsible for payment for such service to the franchisee.
(Ord. 563-08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Appeals:
      1.   Any action or determination by franchisee under or pursuant to this
chapter may be appealed to the city manager.
      2.   Any action or determination of the city manager under this chapter
may be appealed to the council.
   B.   Separability: Any finding by any court of competent jurisdiction that
any portion of this chapter is unconstitutional or invalid shall not invalidate
any other provision of this chapter.
   C.   City Enforcement: The city shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
by administrative, civil or criminal action or any combination as necessary to
obtain compliance with this chapter. The council shall take such legislative
action as is necessary to support this chapter and the franchise granted. At no
time shall the service be deemed mandatory.
   D.   Penalties: Violation by any person of the provisions of sections
4-1-1 through
4-1-6 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be assessed a class A infraction
pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. Penalties in this section are not in lieu of other remedies
provided in this chapter. Each day of the violation is a separate offense;
provided, however, that two (2) or more such continuing offenses may be joined
in the same action.
   E.   Binding Arbitration: In the event that an irreconcilable difference
arises between the city and franchisee on their respective duties and
responsibilities under the franchise or this chapter, an arbitration board
shall be chosen, consisting of three (3) persons, one chosen by the city, one
by the franchisee and one chosen by the two (2) appointed arbitrators. The
arbitrators shall choose a time, date and place, within thirty (30) days of
appointment of the last arbitrator, to hear both sides of the dispute and
promptly render a decision that is binding on both the city and the franchisee.
Where good cause is shown and recorded in the minutes, the time for decision
may be extended. Procedure chosen may be that of the American Arbitration
Association or that specified in chapter 33, Oregon Revised Statutes, for court
supervised arbitration. Costs shall be split equally between the city and
franchisee unless the arbitrators make an award of cost including, without
limitation, arbitrators' time. (Ord. 563-08, 6-9-2008)
4-1-8: NUISANCE ABATEMENT; SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION AND FIRE HAZARDS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall mean:
    CHIEF OF POLICE: Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the
city.
   FIRE HAZARD: Where owing to the existence of solid waste or waste, dried
grass, weeds or shrubbery, the condition of the property is likely to cause a
fire.
   OBJECT: Any material, substance or composition not yet classified as waste,
solid waste or a fire hazard but which may subsequently be determined to be
waste, solid waste or a fire hazard. Object, though used in the singular term,
can also mean the plural when circumstances require.
   OWNER: Owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of real
property as shown in the last available complete assessment roll in the office
of the county assessor.
   PERSON: Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible waste including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, wastepaper and cardboard, sewage,
sludge, septic tank and cesspool pumpage or other sludge, commercial,
industrial, demolition and construction waste, discarded home and industrial
appliances, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semisolid wastes, dead
animals, abandoned vehicles and other waste.
   WASTE: Useless or discarded materials. (Ord. 474, 10-3-1988; amd. 1995 Code;
Ord. 548-04, 12-13-2004)
   B.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: The deposit, accumulation, storage,
collection, maintenance or display of waste, solid waste or dried grass, weeds
or shrubbery is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the value
of private property, to promote blight, deterioration and unsightliness, to
create fire hazards, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare of the people. Therefore,
the presence of waste, solid waste or dried grass, dried weeds or dried
shrubbery on private or public property is hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Entry Upon Private Property:
      1.   The chief of police is authorized at all times to enter upon private
property and examine any object for the purpose of determining if it is a
waste, solid waste or a fire hazard. However, before entering upon private
property, the chief shall obtain consent of the occupant thereof or have a
warrant of the municipal court authorizing his entry for the purpose of
inspection.
      2.   No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of this section
until an affidavit has been filed with the municipal court showing probable
cause for such inspection by stating the purpose and the extent of the proposed
inspection or other specific or general information concerning the object in
question and identifying the property on which it is situated.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to
prevent the chief of police from entering upon private premises and inspecting
such object when the chief of police exhibits a warrant authorizing the entry
of and has obtained consent of the occupant of the property. (Ord. 474, 10-3-
1988; amd. 1995 Code)
   D.   Notice Of Nuisance Condition:
      1.   Upon the investigation of a police agency and determination by the
city manager or his or her designee that a nuisance exists as defined in the
ordinances of this city, a notice shall be posted on the premises liable for
the nuisance directing removal or abatement.
      2.   At the time of posting, the city shall mail notice by regular and by
certified mail with return receipt to the owner or agent, and occupant if
occupied, in charge of the property at the last known address of the owner or
agent.
      3.   The notice to abate shall contain:
         a.   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which or adjacent to which the nuisance exists;
         b.   A direction to remove the nuisance within fifteen (15) days from
the date of the notice or a date certain;
         c.   A description of the nuisance;
         d.   A statement that unless the nuisance is removed or abated, the
city will do so and the cost thereof shall be a lien against the property;
         e.   A statement that the owner or agent in charge of the property may
protest the action by actual delivery of notice to the city manager within
fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice.
      4.   The person posting and mailing the notice as provided herein shall,
upon completion of the posting and mailing, execute and file in the office of
the city recorder a certificate stating the date and place of mailing and
posting.
      5.   An error in the name or address of the owner or agent in charge of
the property or the use of a name other than that of the owner or agent shall
not make the notice void and in any case the posted notice shall be deemed
sufficient.
   E.   Protection Hearing:
      1.   If a person wished to protest the action and delivers notice to the
city manager as set forth in subsection D3e of this section, the matter shall
be set for hearing at the next regularly scheduled council meeting.
      2.   The city shall have the burden to prove the nuisance exists. If the
city council finds no nuisance exists, the matter will be closed. If the city
finds that a nuisance exists, said nuisance shall be abated as set forth in
this section.
   F.   Abatement By Owner:
      1.   Within the time allowed by the notice as provided in subsection D3
of this section, the owner or agent in charge of the property shall remove and
abate the nuisance or show that no nuisance exists.
      2.   Upon the city's determination that a nuisance does in fact exist,
the owner or agent in charge shall within a reasonable time, but not more than
seven (7) days, remove or abate the nuisance.
   G.   Abatement By City:
      1.   If within the time fixed, as provided in this section, the nuisance
has not been abated by the owner or agent in charge of the property, the city
shall cause the nuisance to be abated.
      2.   The city shall maintain an accurate record of the expense incurred
by the city in abating the nuisance and shall include therein an overhead
charge of ten percent (10%) of the total cost for administration.
      3.   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, shall
thereupon be assessed to the property as hereinafter provided.
   H.   Assessment Of Cost:
      1.   A notice of the assessment shall be forwarded by certified mail with
return receipt to the owner or agent in charge of the property by the city
recorder. The notice shall contain:
         a.   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, of the
abatement;
         b.   A statement that the cost as indicated will become a lien against
the property unless paid within sixty (60) days;
         c.   A statement that if the owner or agent in charge of the property
objects to the cost of the abatement as indicated, he may file a notice of
objection with the city recorder within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice;
         d.   Notice that a fee for recording in county deed records may be
added.
      2.   Objections to the proposed assessment shall be heard and determined
by the city manager or his designee.
      3.   An assessment for the cost of the abatement as determined by the
city manager or his designee and adopted as a matter of record by resolution of
the council shall thereupon be entered in the docket of city liens, and upon
the entry being made, it shall constitute a lien against the property from
which the nuisance was removed or abated. Also, it may be recorded in the
county deed records.
      4.   The lien shall be collected in the same manner as liens are
collected in Oregon Revised Statutes 223.505 et seq., or as those statutes are
subsequently amended. The lien shall bear interest at a rate as established by
resolution of the city council. The interest shall commence to run thirty (30)
days after the entry in the lien docket.
      5.   An error in the name of the owner or agent in charge of the property
shall not void the assessment nor will a failure to receive the notice of the
assessment render the assessment void, but it shall remain a valid lien against
the property.
   I.   Supplemental Nature Of Provisions:
      1.   The procedure provided by this section is not exclusive but in
addition to procedure provided by other ordinances, and furthermore, the city
may proceed summarily to abate a sanitary or other nuisance which exists and
from which there is imminent danger to human life or property.
   J.   Error In Procedure:
      1.   Failure to conform to the requirements or this section that does not
substantially and adversely affect the legal right of a person does not
invalidate a proceeding under this section.
   K.   Penalty:
      1.   A person who owns a nuisance property and who allows the condition
to remain past the time established in the notice described in subsection D3 of
this section may be assessed a class B infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 560-07, 2-12-2007)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Permit Requirements
4-2-4: Burning Permit Required; Conditions
4-2-5: Prohibited Conduct
4-2-6: No Burning Days
4-2-7: Exemptions
4-2-8: Enforcement
4-2-9: Compliance with Other Laws
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the OPEN BURNING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-
93)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
OPEN BURNING: Any burning conducted so combustion air is not effectively
controlled in that combustion products are not vented through a stack or
chimney, including but not limited to burning conducted in open outdoor fires,
common burn barrels and backyard incinerators.
PERMIT: A permit issued by the City of Heppner under the authority of the Chief
of the Heppner Fire Department specifying the period of time during which open
burning is allowed and what type of waste is to be burned.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, public or
Municipal corporation, political subdivision, State or agency thereof or the
Federal government or any agencies thereof.
WASTE TYPES: A. Agricultural Waste: Any material actually generated or used by
an agricultural operation, excepting prohibited waste as defined below.
   B.   Commercial Waste: Any material except agricultural waste, construction
waste, demolition waste, domestic waste or industrial waste.
   C.   Construction Waste: Any material actually resulting from or produced by
a building or construction project. Examples of construction wastes are wood,
lumber, paper, crating and packing materials used during construction,
materials left after completion of construction and materials collected during
cleanup of construction site.
   D.   Demolition Waste: Any material actually resulting from or produced by
the complete or partial destruction or tearing down of any man- made structure
or the clearing of any site for land improvement or cleanup excluding yard
debris and agricultural waste.
   E.   Domestic Waste: Household material, which includes paper, cardboard,
clothing, yard debris or other material actually generated in or out of a
dwelling of four (4) or fewer family units on the real property appurtenant to
the dwelling. Such material actually generated in or around a dwelling of more
than four (4) family living units is commercial waste. Once domestic waste is
removed from the property of origin, it becomes commercial waste.
   F.   Industrial Waste: Any material, including process waste, produced as a
direct result of any manufacturing industrial process.
   G.   Prohibited Waste: Any wet garbage, plastics, wire insulation,
automobile parts, asphalt, petroleum products, petroleum treated materials,
rubber products, animal remains or animal and vegetable matter resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking or service of food or any other material
which normally emits dense smoke or nauseous odors. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-1993)
4-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Term And Fee: Permits shall be issued for one year. Permit fees shall
be determined by a city resolution. (Ord. 568-11, 11-14-2011)
   B.   Issuance Under Authority Of Fire Chief: Permits will only be issued at
the city hall by city personnel under the authority of the fire chief.
   C.   Permit Specifications: Permits shall specify the type of waste to be
burned and the exact location of the burn. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-1993)
4-2-4: BURNING PERMIT REQUIRED; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Open burning of agricultural waste, construction
waste, commercial waste, demolition waste, domestic waste and industrial waste
is allowed only when a person holds a valid permit issued by the city under the
authority of the fire chief.
   B.   Fires Attended: All open burning shall be constantly attended until
extinguished by a responsible person, as described in subsection C of this
section, or expressly authorized agent.
   C.   Responsible Person Described: Each person who is in ownership, control
or custody of the real property on which open burning occurs, including any
tenant thereof, or who is in ownership, control or custody of the material
which is burned, shall be considered a responsible person for the open burning.
Any person who causes or allows open burning to be initiated or maintained
shall also be considered a responsible person.
   D.   Extinguishment Of Burning In Violation: It shall be the duty of each
responsible person to properly extinguish any burning which is in violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   E.   Minimize Smoke Production: All burning shall minimize smoke production
to avoid any creation of a nuisance or public safety hazard.
   F.   Guidelines For Burning: Each responsible person shall follow the
guidelines below to promote efficient burning and prevent excessive emission of
smoke:
      1.   Be sure that all combustible material is dried to the extent
practical, including covering combustible material to protect material from
accumulating high moisture content.
      2.   Loosely stack or windrow the combustible material in such a manner
as to eliminate dirt, rocks and other noncombustible material and promote an
adequate air supply to the burning pile and provide the necessary tools and
equipment for that purpose.
      3.   Periodically restack or feed the burning pile and assure that
combustion is essentially completed, prevent smoldering fires and provide the
necessary tools and equipment for that purpose.
      4.   Have available sufficient water supply and tools and equipment
necessary to extinguish the fire and to prevent spreading of the fire. (Ord.
497-93, 8-9-1993)
4-2-5: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow to be initiated or maintained any open
burning which interferes unreasonably with enjoyment of life or property or
which creates any of the following:
      1.   Private nuisance.
      2.   Public nuisance.
      3.   A hazard to public safety.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow to be initiated or maintained any open
burning of any prohibited waste.
   C.   No person shall cause or allow to be initiated or maintained any open
burning of any material on any day open burning is prohibited because of
meteorological or air quality conditions or dangerous fire conditions 1 .
   D.   Determinations under this Section of private nuisance, public nuisance
and a hazard to public safety shall be made by the Police Department.
Determinations of dates to prohibit burning because of meteorological or air
quality conditions or dangerous fire conditions shall be made by the Fire Chief
or his designee. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-93)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-2-6 of this Chapter.
4-2-6: NO BURNING DAYS:
   A.   The Fire Chief may, due to meteorological or air quality or dangerous
fire conditions, designate any day as a no burning day. Notice of the no
burning day shall be posted conspicuously at or near City Hall. Absolutely no
burning will be allowed on no burning days even if a person holds a valid
permit for that day.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of each person to contact City Hall or
check City Hall for posted notice of no burn day prior to initiating any
permitted burn on any given date. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-93)
4-2-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   The operation of any barbecue equipment.
      2.   Fires set or permitted by any public agency in the performance of
its official duty for the purpose of weed abatement, prevention or elimination
of a fire hazard, public health or safety hazard or instruction of employees in
the method of firefighting.
   B.   The Morrow County School District and Pioneer Memorial Hospital shall
be granted exemptions to this Chapter for materials burned in the incinerators
located at Heppner High School, Heppner Middle School and Pioneer Memorial
Hospital, provided the entities meet the following conditions:
      1.   No hazardous materials shall be burned in any incinerator.
      2.   The entity shall comply with Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality restrictions on materials that may be burned in the incinerators.
      3.   The entities will screen the incinerators to prevent burning
materials from escaping.
      4.   No other person or entity shall be allowed to burn materials in the
incinerator owned by the entity.
      5.   The incinerator shall be approved by the Fire Chief before any
burning.
      6.   The incinerator shall be certified annually by the Fire Chief. (Ord.
497-93, 8-9-93; 1995 Code)
4-2-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority to Extinguish: Any burning not in compliance with this
Chapter and all burning of prohibited waste may be extinguished by the Fire
Department or Police Department. Fire Department or Police Department personnel
may enter upon the property of persons in order to extinguish any fire burning
in violation of this Chapter.
   B.   Civil Penalty: Any violation of this Chapter shall also be assessed a
Class C infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. The Police Department shall notify the responsible person
of the civil fine by issuance of a citation specifying the type of violation,
amount of the fine and a date by which payment shall be made to the City.
   C.   Hearing Before Municipal Court: Any time prior to the date set for
payment of the penalty, the person may request a hearing before the City
Municipal Court.
      1.   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the City shall schedule a
hearing before the Municipal Court for a date not more than thirty (30) days
from the date of the request.
      2.   Every hearing under this Chapter shall be held before the Municipal
Court without a jury.
      3.   The person cited, or the City, may produce any relevant evidence and
produce any witnesses to alleged violations at the hearing.
      4.   All relevant evidence shall be admitted at the hearing.
      5.   Except for determination of relevance, the Oregon Rules of Civil
Procedure and the Oregon Rules of Evidence shall not apply at such hearing.
      6.   If the person alleged to have violated this Chapter desires
witnesses to appear involuntarily, he must request the Municipal Court subpoena
such persons at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled hearing. The person
will be responsible for all witness fees and mileage necessary to secure the
attendance of such witnesses at the hearing.
      7.   If the Municipal Court determines the violation did occur, the Court
may order the person to forfeit any witness fees paid by the City in connection
with the hearing.
      8.   An alleged violator may be represented by legal counsel, but shall
have no right to court appointed counsel at public expense.
      9.   The City shall have the burden of proving the alleged ordinance
violation by a preponderance of the evidence.
      10.   After consideration of the evidence presented at the hearing, the
Court shall determine whether the violation has been established and shall
enter an order either that the violation has been established or that the
citation shall be dismissed. A copy of this order shall be delivered to the
person within ten (10) days of the date of the hearing. The order shall include
a brief statement of the findings of fact establishing the violation.
      11.   There shall be no administrative appeal or legal review from the
determination by the Municipal Court of the violation of this Chapter. However,
each person assessed a penalty under this Chapter shall be advised in writing
that even though no direct right of appeal exists, it is possible legal relief
might be obtained.
      12.   Failure of a person to appear at a hearing he has requested will
result in establishment of the violation and the penalty. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-93)
4-2-9: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Open burning in compliance with this Chapter does not exempt any person from
any civil or criminal liability for consequences or damages resulting from such
burning, nor does it exempt any person from complying with any other applicable
law, ordinance, regulation, rule, permit, order or decree of this or any other
governmental entity having jurisdiction. (Ord. 497-93, 8-9-93)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Discharging of Firearms, Air Guns
5-1-3: Offenses Involving Property
5-1-3-1: Street and Sidewalk Offenses
5-1-3-2: Barbed Wire Fences, Construction Prohibited
5-1-3-3: Plants, Destruction
5-1-3-4: Offenses Concerning Official Notices
5-1-4: Nuisance and Offensive Conditions
5-1-4-1: Noises, Unnecessary
5-1-4-2: Pigsties
5-1-4-3: Surface Waters, Drainage
5-1-5: Vehicles Injuring Animals
5-1-6: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
OFFENSE: The doing of any act or thing prohibited or the failing to do any act
or thing commanded to be done in this Chapter within the corporate limits of
the City is hereby declared to be an offense against the public peace, safety,
morals and general welfare of the people of the City.
PERSON: Refers to and includes any natural person, firm, copartnership,
association or corporation, whether he or it is acting for himself or itself or
as the clerk, servant, employee or agent of another. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40)
5-1-2: DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS:
   A.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any type of
firearm; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall apply to any
peace officer while acting in performance of his duties or to any person
lawfully using a firearm in defense of his property or person.
   B.   Air Guns: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge an air gun
or to use any bean shooter, slingshot or other similar weapon or device. (Ord.
289, 2-5-40)
5-1-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
5-1-3-1: STREET AND SIDEWALK OFFENSES 1 :
   A.   Sidewalks, Driving on: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or
drive any horse or other animal or any motor vehicle upon, over or across any
sidewalk except where a proper incline or crossing is provided for that
purpose.
   B.   Cellar Doors, Leaving Open: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
or leave open any cellar door or grating of any kind in or upon any sidewalk
except when the same is necessarily open during the immediate use thereof.
During such time such opening shall be properly guarded and protected.
   C.   Deposits on Streets and Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any person
to place or deposit upon any street or sidewalk any article which tends to
prevent, interrupt or obstruct the travel or free passage of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
   D.   Injurious Substances on Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person
wilfully to place or deposit upon any street or public way any substance
tending to mar the appearance or to detract from the cleanliness or safety of
such street or public way.
   E.   Ice and Snow Removal: It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee,
occupant or person having the control or custody of any premises or unimproved
property to remove all snow or ice which has fallen or has accumulated upon the
sidewalks abutting upon such premises or property within two (2) hours after
such snow or ice has ceased to fall thereon; provided, however, that if such
snow is falling or such ice accumulating after the hour of six o'clock (6:00)
P.M., the same shall be removed within two (2) hours after it shall cease to
fall or within two (2) hours after seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the next
succeeding day, as the case may be. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 7, Chapter 1 of this Code regarding streets and sidewalks.
5-1-3-2: BARBED WIRE FENCES, CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any
fence, wholly or partially, of barbed wire along any of the streets or alleys
in the City or to place any barbed wire on the top of any fence already
constructed or hereinafter constructed along said streets or alleys.
   B.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to notify any
person having violated the provision of this Section to remove the same without
delay, and any person so notified shall remove such barbed wire within ten (10)
days from the receipt of such notice. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40)
5-1-3-3: PLANTS, DESTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously or wantonly to cut down,
destroy or injure any flower, bush, shrub or tree standing or growing upon the
property of another. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40)
5-1-3-4: OFFENSES CONCERNING OFFICIAL NOTICES:
   A.   Defacing or Tearing Down Posters: It shall be unlawful for any person
wilfully to deface or tear down any official notice or bulletin posted in
conformity with law.
   B.   Unauthorized Posters; Permission Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person to affix a placard, bill or poster upon any personal or real property,
private or public, without first obtaining permission of the owner or proper
public authority. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40)
5-1-4: NUISANCE AND OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS:
5-1-4-1: NOISES, UNNECESSARY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist in creating, permit,
continue or permit the continuance of any loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise
in the City. The following acts are declared to be violations of this Section,
but such enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   Animals: The keeping of any animal which, by frequent or loud continued
noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the vicinity.
   B.   Vehicle Rattling Noises: The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
other vehicle, any engine, stationary or moving instrument or any device or
thing so out of repair, so loaded or operated in such manner as to create loud
or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
   C.   Horns on Vehicles: The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the City, except as a necessary warning of danger to property or
person.
   D.   Mechanical, Compressed Air Devices: The use of any mechanical device
operated by compressed air, steam or otherwise, unless the noise created
thereby is effectively muffled.
   E.   Building Construction: The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration or repair of any building, other than between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except upon special permit
granted by the City Council.
   F.   Vehicle Sirens: The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other
than police, fire or other emergency vehicle.
   G.   Vehicle Mufflers and Muffler Cutouts:
      1.   The operation of any gasoline engine without having the same
equipped with and using thereon a muffler.
      2.   The use of a muffler cutout on any motor vehicle upon any street.
   H.   Sound Amplifying Devices; Permit Requirement: The use or operation of
any automobile or electric piano, phonograph, radio, loudspeaker or any sound-
amplifying device so loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof or in
such manner as renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon
application to the City Council, permits may be granted to responsible persons
or organizations to broadcast programs of music, news, speeches or general
entertainment.
   I.   Garage Maintenance: The conducting, operating or maintaining of any
garage within one hundred feet (100') of any building used as a private
residence, apartment house, rooming house or hotel in such manner as to cause
loud or offensive noises to be emitted therefrom between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40; 1995
Code)
5-1-4-2: PIGSTIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a pigsty, slaughterhouse or
tannery within the corporate limits of the City, unless an exception has been
granted by the City Council. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
5-1-4-3: SURFACE WATERS, DRAINAGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure to suffer or permit rain water, ice or snow to fall from any such
building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any such
sidewalk, and every such owner, lessee or occupant shall, at all times, keep
and maintain in a proper state of repair adequate drain pipes or a drainage
system sufficient to carry to the street any overflow water accumulating on the
roof or about such building. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40)
5-1-5: VEHICLES INJURING ANIMALS:
Any person operating a vehicle, as defined by the Uniform Traffic Act of the
State of Oregon 1 , upon the streets of the City who shall run over, strike,
injure, maim or kill any domestic animal shall immediately stop and render aid
to such animal, if injured, or provide for the disposition of the carcass if
such animal be killed. Such person shall, in either case, make due and diligent
inquiry to determine the owner of such animal and, if the owner be found, he
shall notify him of the occurrence. (Ord. 289, 2-5-40)
 
Notes
1 1. ORS 801.590.
5-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be
assessed a Class D infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
ARTICLE A. DOG CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Animal Control Officer
5-2A-3: Licensing Requirements; Rabies Inoculation
5-2A-4: Registration Of Licenses Issued
5-2A-5: License Tag Attached To Dog Collar
5-2A-6: Biting Dogs
5-2A-7: Rabies Suspected, Procedure
5-2A-8: Impoundment And Redemption; Fees
5-2A-9: Dog As Public Nuisance
5-2A-10: Dogs Running At Large
5-2A-11: Guard Dogs And Attack Dogs; Warning Signs
5-2A-12: Forfeitures Assessed
5-2A-13: Dog Waste
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person(s) duly authorized by the city or city
manager to care for, seize and confine animals 1 .
BITE: To seize with the teeth or jaws so that a person or animal has been
nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced and saliva of the biting animal has
contacted the resulting break or abrasion of the skin.
CONTROL: "Control" of a dog means that the same is on a leash not more than
eight feet (8') in length, is under voice control in the presence of a
competent person, is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked or is within
the premises of another person with the consent of the owner of the premises.
DOG: Any member of the animal species, Caninus familiaria, six (6) months or
more in age.
OWNER: Any person having a property right in any dog, who keeps a dog, who has
a dog in his care or custody or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or
about any premises occupied by him.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust,
estate or other legal entity.
POUND: That facility as designated by the city or chief of police to
temporarily confine and house dogs that have been seized.
VOICE CONTROL: Is deemed to mean that a dog:
   A.   Is physically capable of hearing normal commands;
   B.   Is, at the time under consideration, within reasonable proximity to the
controller so that shouting or excessively loud commands are not necessary;
   C.   Has been adequately trained in obedience so as to be capable of
understanding control commands; and
   D.   Either continually demonstrates or is able to demonstrate on demand
that the dog will respond to a command that will cause it to immediately come
into close proximity of the controller and cease any kind of aggressive
behavior or action that would be offensive to other persons or animals. (Ord.
456, 4-1-1985; amd. Ord. 530-2000, 8-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2B-1 of this chapter.
5-2A-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
Any police officer or person authorized as an animal control officer: (Ord.
530-2000, 8-14-2000)
   A.   May enter upon private premises to apprehend a stray animal, unlicensed
dog, a vicious animal 1 , a wild creature or an animal suspected of being
infected with rabies;
   B.   May enter upon private premises to investigate complaints of
irresponsibility or inhumane animal care; and
   C.   May seize, impound or dispose of any vicious animal of any kind when
necessary for the protection of any person or animal. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See article B, "Dangerous Animals", of this chapter.
5-2A-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; RABIES INOCULATION:
   A.   License Required; Fee; Time Of Procuring License: The owner or
custodian of any dog over the age of six (6) months shall procure a city dog
license and pay an annual fee as set by periodic resolution of the Heppner city
council. Said license fee shall be due and payable on and after January 1 of
each year, and any person failing to procure and pay for such license before
March 31 of any year shall pay an additional two dollars ($2.00) as a penalty
for such delinquency. If March 31 shall fall on a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday, license fees may be paid without a penalty on the first succeeding
business day. With respect to dogs first brought into the city after March 31,
no penalty shall be payable if the owner or custodian procures a license within
thirty (30) days after the dog is brought into the city or within thirty (30)
days after the dog reaches the age of six (6) months, whichever occurs last.
(Ord. 530-2000, 8-14-2000)
   B.   Service Dogs, Exemption: Any person owning a dog which is a service dog
under the rules and regulations promulgated by the United States department of
justice under the Americans with disabilities act shall be exempt from the
license fee payment requirement of this section. Upon application, annually, to
the city and presentation of a vaccination certificate as prescribed by
subsection E of this section, every owner of a dog which is a service dog shall
receive, at no charge, a city dog license. A service dog must be a working dog
and not a pet and must be trained to do a job or task which is directly related
to the person's disability. Dogs whose sole function is to provide comfort or
emotional support do not qualify as service animals.
Examples of service animals include those dogs which guide the blind, alert
people who are deaf, pull wheelchairs, alert and protect people having a
seizure, remind a person with a mental illness to take prescribed medicine, or
calm persons with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) during anxiety attacks,
or perform other duties. (Ord. 569-12, 9-10-2012)
   C.   Evidence Of Spaying Or Neutering: Before a city dog license may be
issued for the lower annual license fee for a dog which has been spayed or
neutered, the owner or custodian of such dog shall provide evidence that the
dog has been spayed or neutered. Such evidence shall be a certificate signed by
a doctor of veterinary medicine, on his letterhead, stationery or on a form
provided by the city for such purpose or by the sworn statement of the owner or
custodian on a form provided by the city. Any such form or certificate shall
state the name of the doctor of veterinary medicine who performed the operation
or the name of the clinic where such operation was performed, the street
address of such doctor of veterinary medicine or clinic, the telephone number
thereof, if available, the precise or approximate date when the operation was
performed and a sufficient description of the dog.
   D.   Payment Of Fee; Issuance Of Tag: The amount of the license fee shall be
paid to the city clerk, and upon the payment thereof there shall be issued to
the person making such payment a dog tag with the date of expiration thereon
and the words "City of Heppner" and "Dog License" plainly inscribed thereon.
   E.   Rabies Vaccination Required:
      1.   Vaccination Certificate: In order to be licensed, the owner or
custodian of the dog shall have the dog vaccinated with a type of rabies
vaccine approved by the National Association Of State Public Health
Veterinarians, Inc. The city clerk shall issue a dog license only after
presentation of a vaccination certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian
indicating that the period of time elapsing from the date of vaccination to the
date of expiration of the license being issued does not exceed thirty (30)
months. The vaccination certificate need not be presented whenever the dog has
a condition or illness which renders it unfit to be vaccinated and this is
proved to the satisfaction of the city clerk, who must require written proof
thereof to be made by a licensed veterinarian upon a form approved by the city.
      2.   Disposal Of Certificates: The city may dispose of certificates of
inoculation upon their expiration date.
      3.   Rabies Tag From Other Jurisdiction: An unexpired rabies tag from any
other jurisdiction shall be honored when the animal is in transit or where the
owner has established a new residence.
      4.   Dog License As Verification Of Rabies Inoculation: The city dog
license shall be considered as verification that a certificate of inoculation
is on file and a separate rabies tag is not required. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-4: REGISTRATION OF LICENSES ISSUED:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to enter, in a register kept for that
purpose, the name and address of the owners and custodians of all dogs
licensed, the description of such dogs, the number of the tag, the date of
issuance and the rabies inoculation certificate. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-5: LICENSE TAG ATTACHED TO DOG COLLAR:
   A.   Tag Attached To Collar: The dog license tag issued to any person upon
the payment of the license fee herein provided for shall be securely attached
to the collar or harness on such dog. The city shall impound any dog not
bearing a city dog license tag.
   B.   Lost Tag; Replacement Fee: Whenever an original tag is lost, mutilated
or destroyed, upon application and payment of a fee of two dollars ($2.00), a
replacement tag, to be dated, designed and worn as the original, shall be
issued. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-6: BITING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of an animal involved in a
biting incident to euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of such
animal until a full release on the incident has been issued by the animal
control officer. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-7: RABIES SUSPECTED, PROCEDURE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any animal to refuse or fail
to promptly surrender any animal suspected of being infected by rabies. Any
animal suspected of being infected by rabies shall be seized by the animal
control officer and impounded with a licensed veterinarian for observation,
examination and testing as necessary for positive diagnosis. Upon declaration
by a licensed veterinarian that an animal is infected by rabies, the animal
control officer shall cause immediate destruction of the infected animal.
Disposition of the animal's body shall be controlled by the animal control
officer. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-8: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION; FEES:
   A.   Public Nuisance; Impoundment: When any dog is a public nuisance, the
animal control officer or a police officer may impound it or cite the owner or
keeper as set forth in article D of this chapter.
   B.   Time Limit For Impoundment: All dogs taken up and impounded under this
article shall be held in the city dog pound. Unless claimed by the owner, a dog
shall be impounded for at least three (3) days if the dog is without a license
or identification tag and for at least five (5) days if it has a license or
identification tag. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985; amd. 1995 Code)
   C.   Redemption; Fees: A reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner
of a dog before the dog is removed from impoundment. If the owner appears and
redeems the dog, he shall first pay a redemption fee as set by periodic
resolution of the Heppner city council and also pay the expense of keeping the
dog during the time it was impounded. If the dog is unlicensed, the owner shall
also purchase a license and pay an additional two dollar ($2.00) penalty for
failure to have a license. (Ord. 530-2000, 8-14-2000)
   D.   Disposition Of Dogs: If no owner appears to redeem a dog within the
allotted time or if the dog has been impounded as a public nuisance for killing
or injuring a person, it shall be killed in a humane manner and the remains
disposed of by the animal control officer. If, in the opinion of the chief of
police, the dog is not dangerous and can be safely kept, the city may release
the dog to a responsible person upon receipt of assurance the person will
properly care for the dog and not allow it to become a nuisance, and upon
payment of a sum established by the city council plus cost of keep during its
impounding, and purchase of a license, if required. The person shall thereafter
be liable as owner of the dog as provided herein.
   E.   Impoundment Of Biting Dog: Any dog impounded for biting a person shall
be held for not less than ten (10) days before redemption or destruction to
determine if the dog is rabid.
   F.   Deposit Required From Owner: When the owner desires to redeem an animal
impounded as described herein, the person shall post a twenty dollar ($20.00)
deposit and obtain possession of the animal for the purpose of having the dog
inoculated for rabies. Upon demonstrating proof of rabies inoculation within
eight (8) days of obtaining possession of the animal, the twenty dollar
($20.00) deposit shall be refunded to the person posting the deposit. Failure
to demonstrate proof of rabies inoculation and licensing within the prescribed
time shall result in forfeit of the deposit to the city. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985;
amd. 1995 Code)
5-2A-9: DOG AS PUBLIC NUISANCE:
A dog is a public nuisance if it is allowed to commit any of the acts specified
in section
5-2D-1 of this chapter or is a female in heat and running at large. (Ord. 456,
4-1-1985)
5-2A-10: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
No person shall permit any dog to run at large anywhere out of doors in the
city. This regulation shall apply to all public places and to all private
property. No person shall permit any dog to be out of doors in any place unless
the dog is on a leash held by a person able to control the dog. Leaving an
unattended dog fastened to a leash, chain or trolley shall not be deemed to
comply with the requirements of this section unless it is on the property of
the person in control of the dog. A dog may be left unattended out of doors in
a yard with a fence adequate to prevent the dog from leaving the yard. (Ord.
456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-11: GUARD DOGS AND ATTACK DOGS; WARNING SIGNS:
No person shall leave any guard dog or attack dog unattended in any place in or
out of any building unless a warning sign has been placed in a clearly visible
location of the premises, located so it can be seen by any person before
entering the place to which the dog has access, warning that a guard dog or
attack dog is present. As used in this section, the term guard dog or attack
dog means any dog intended to attack intruders, whether the dog has been
trained to do so or the dog does so without training. No guard dog or attack
dog shall be left unattended in any place except inside a building or out of
doors in a fenced yard, with a fence adequate to prevent the dog from leaving
the yard. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985)
5-2A-12: FORFEITURES ASSESSED:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be assessed a
forfeiture for committing a class C civil infraction. The civil infraction
procedure shall be as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code and the infraction schedule of that chapter shall apply to
violations of this article. (Ord. 456, 4-1-1985; amd. 1995 Code)
5-2A-13: DOG WASTE:
It is unlawful for an owner or keeper to allow a dog to deposit solid waste on
any property other than that of the person owning or keeping said animal, but
it shall be defense to this action if the owner or keeper promptly removes the
solid waste deposited by his or her animal on any property other than that of
the owner or keeper. Any person violating this section shall be assessed a
forfeiture for committing a class D civil infraction. The civil infraction
procedure shall be as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code and the infraction schedule of that chapter shall apply to
violations of this section. (Ord. 544-04, 4-12-2004)
ARTICLE B. DANGEROUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Definitions
5-2B-2: Keeping Dangerous Animals
5-2B-3: Exceptions; Bond Or Insurance Required
5-2B-4: Animals Exempt With A License
5-2B-5: Licensing Dangerous Animals
5-2B-6: Investigation And Notice Of Keeping Dangerous Animals
5-2B-7: Seizure And Impounding Or Disposition Of Dangerous Animals
5-2B-8: Cost Paid By Responsible Person
5-2B-9: Disposition Of Seized Animals
5-2B-10: Penalty
5-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any police officer or any person designated by the city
council or the city manager to enforce the provisions of this article 1 .
CITY: The city of Heppner.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal, wild mammal, reptile or fowl which is not
naturally tame or gentle, but is of a wild nature or disposition or which,
because of its size, vicious nature or other characteristics, would constitute
a danger to human life or property if it is not kept or maintained in a safe
manner or in secure quarters. Dangerous animals include, but are not limited
to: a) dogs commonly referred to as pit bulls of any of the following breeds:
American Staffordshire terrier, bull terrier, Staffordshire terrier, American
pit bull terrier and mixtures containing these breeds; b) poisonous snakes; c)
nonpoisonous snakes that are more than six feet (6') in length or which
otherwise present a risk of serious physical harm or death to human beings as a
result of their nature or physical makeup; d) bears; e) wolverines; f) badgers;
g) lions, tigers and other members of the cat family other than domestic cats;
and h) any amphibians more than one foot (1') in length.
OWN, KEEP OR HARBOR: To have legal title to or custody of or control over any
dangerous animal in the city.
PERSON: Includes any natural person, association, partnership, organization or
corporation.
SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM (To Persons): Any of the following: a) a mental illness
or emotional condition serious enough to require hospitalization or prolonged
treatment; b) physical harm involving a substantial risk of death; c) physical
harm involving partial or permanent incapacity or total permanent incapacity;
d) physical harm causing permanent disfigurement or temporary serious
disfigurement; e) physical harm causing acute pain lasting long enough to
result in substantial suffering or causing any degree of prolonged or incurable
pain. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-1992; amd. 1995 Code; Ord. 530-2000, 8-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2A-1 of this chapter.
5-2B-2: KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
Except as provided in section
5-2B-3 of this article, no person shall own, keep or harbor any dangerous
animal in the city. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-1992)
5-2B-3: EXCEPTIONS; BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Exceptions Enumerated: The provisions of sections
5-2B-1 and
5-2B-2 of this article shall not apply to the following situation:
      1.   Keeping of such animals in a bona fide licensed veterinary hospital
for treatment;
      2.   Keeping such animals in a bona fide educational or medical
institution, museum or other place where they are kept as live exhibits for
entertainment or for study;
      3.   Keeping such animals for use in circus, carnival, zoo or other event
for entertainment which is authorized by the proper and responsible official or
officials of the City in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances;
and
      4.   Keeping such animals under any other circumstances specifically
exempted herein.
   B.   Bond or Insurance Required 1 : In all the specific exceptions
identified herein, the owner shall provide that property bond or insurance be
posted to indemnify those who may be injured or killed by such animals. The
type and amount of such bond or insurance shall be determined by the City
Manager, except where otherwise provided by ordinance. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-2B-5A8 of this Article.
5-2B-4: ANIMALS EXEMPT WITH A LICENSE:
   A.   Dangerous Animals License: Subject to other applicable sections of this
Article and any applicable Federal or State law in effect at the time of an
alleged offense, it shall be lawful for a person to keep or maintain those
animals identified below if the person keeping or maintaining such animals has
been issued and maintained an annual dangerous animal license under the
requirements of this Article.
   B.   Animals Exempt if Licensed: The following animals are exempt if
licensed:
      1.   Any poisonous or stinging insect or arachnid;
      2.   Pit bulls, as defined in Section
5-2B-1 of this Article; and
      3.   Nonpoisonous snakes. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92)
5-2B-5: LICENSING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Licensing Conditions, Requirements: The City Manager may issue a
dangerous animal license for the keeping or maintenance of those animals
identified in Section
5-2B-4 of this Article for a period of one year, and may renew the license for
subsequent one year periods if it is found by the Animal Control Officer, after
inspection of the premises where the animals are to be kept, that:
      1.   The animal is at all times kept or maintained in a safe manner and
is at all times confined securely so that keeping the animal will not
constitute a danger to human life or property;
      2.   Adequate safeguards are made to prevent unauthorized access to the
animal by a member of the public;
      3.   The health and well-being of the animal is not in any way endangered
by the manner of keeping or confinement;
      4.   The keeping of the animal will not harm the surrounding neighborhood
or disturb the peace and quiet of the surrounding neighborhood;
      5.   The quarters in which the animal is kept or confined are adequately
lighted and ventilated and are so constructed that the animal can be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition;
      6.   The keeping of the animal will not create or cause offensive odors
or in any other way constitute a danger to public health;
      7.   The animal is muzzled and leashed or securely confined within a cage
when off the owner's premises; when on the owner's premises, the animal is kept
inside the house or securely penned; and
      8.   The applicant for such a license has proven ability to respond in
damages up to and including the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for bodily injury or death to any person or for damage to
property owned by any other person which may result from the keeping or
maintenance of such animal. Such proof of ability to respond in damages may be
given by filing with the City Manager a certificate of insurance stating that
the applicant is, at the time of this application and will be during the period
of his license, insured against liability for personal and property damages as
described in this subsection or by posting a bond with the City Manager prior
to the issuing of the dangerous animal license and operative to the time of the
license in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). The bond
or certificate of insurance shall provide that no cancellation of insurance or
bond will be made unless thirty (30) days' written notice is first given to the
City Manager. Should such notice be given to the City Manager, the license
shall be immediately cancelled 1 .
   B.   Inspection of Premises: Prior to the annual renewal of a dangerous
animal license, the Animal Control Officer shall inspect the premises subject
to the license to determine if the person to whom it has been issued is
continuing to comply with all of the conditions specified in this Section. In
addition, the Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to inspect the
premises upon the receipt of any complaint regarding the maintenance of such
premises or the animals therein. If the Officer determines, during the
inspection, that any of the conditions specified in subsection A of this
Section are being violated, he shall refuse to renew that license or shall
revoke the license unless the violation is corrected within a period of time as
he shall direct, not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   C.   License Fee: In addition to the requirements of subsection A of this
Section, the applicant for a dangerous animal license shall pay to the City
Manager a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each animal to be kept or
maintained on the premises subject to the license.
   D.   Sale or Giving Away Restricted: No person shall sell or give away any
dangerous animal to any person not holding a dangerous animal license issued
and maintained under this Section.
   E.   Number Restricted: In no event shall a dangerous animal license be
issued or renewed for the keeping of more than two (2) dangerous animals in any
single location. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 5-2B-3B of this Article.
5-2B-6: INVESTIGATION AND NOTICE OF KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
Upon the written or telephonic complaint of any person that a person owns or is
keeping or harboring a dangerous animal on premises in the City, the Animal
Control Officer shall forthwith cause the matter to be investigated and if,
after investigation, the facts indicate that such person is in fact the owner
or is keeping or harboring any dangerous animal in the City, he shall forthwith
send written notice to such person requiring such person to safely remove said
animal from the City within three (3) days of the date of said notice. Notice
shall not be required where the dangerous animal has previously caused serious
physical harm or death to any person or has escaped and is at large, in which
case the Animal Control Officer shall cause the animal to be immediately seized
and impounded according to the provisions of Section
5-2B-7 of this Article, or killed, if seizure and impoundment are not possible
without risk of serious physical harm or death to any person. (Ord. 494-92, 5-
11-92)
5-2B-7: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OR DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
The Animal Control Officer shall forthwith cause to be seized and impounded any
dangerous animal where the person owning, keeping or harboring such animal has
failed to comply with the notice sent pursuant to Section
5-2B-6 of this Article. Upon a seizure and impoundment, said animal shall be
delivered to place of confinement which may be with any organization which is
authorized, by law, to accept, own, keep or harbor such animals. If, during the
course of seizing and impounding any such animal, the animal poses a risk of
serious physical harm or death to any person, such person authorized by the
Animal Control Officer may render said animal immobile by means of
tranquilizers or other safe drugs or if that is not safely possible, then said
animal may be killed. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92)
5-2B-8: COST PAID BY RESPONSIBLE PERSON:
Any reasonable costs incurred by the Animal Control Officer in seizing,
impounding or confining any dangerous or wild animal shall be charged against
the owner, keeper or harborer of such animal and shall be collected by the
Chief of Police. Such charge shall be in addition to any fine or penalty
provided for violating this Article. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92; 1995 Code)
5-2B-9: DISPOSITION OF SEIZED ANIMALS:
   A.   Return to Owner: When any animal has been seized as provided herein, if
the owner has complied with all provisions of this Article within three (3)
days and paid all expense incurred in seizing and holding the animal, the
animal shall be returned.
   B.   Sale or Destruction of Unclaimed Animals: If the owner has not met the
conditions for return, the Animal Control Officer may advertise the animal for
sale to the highest bidder or may destroy the animal. Any purchaser of the
animal shall agree to remove the animal from the corporate limits of the City
and to otherwise conform its maintenance to provisions of this Article and any
applicable State or Federal law then in effect.
   C.   Disposition of Proceeds from Sale: The proceeds of a sale shall be
applied by the Animal Control Officer as follows:
      1.   To the payment of any cost which may be incurred in the Municipal
Court in the matter of the action taken under this Article.
      2.   To the payment of any cost which the Animal Control Officer may
incur in caring for such animal and in selling the same.
      3.   The surplus, if any, shall be delivered by the Animal Control
Officer to the owner of the animal.
   D.   Destruction of Animal: If the Animal Control Officer is unable to sell
the animal, the animal may be destroyed. The prior owner of the animal shall
not be eligible to repurchase the animal. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92)
5-2B-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this Article shall be assessed a Class B
infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 494-92, 5-11-92; 1995 Code)
ARTICLE C. ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-2C-1: Permit Requirements for Keeping Animals
5-2C-2: Running at Large Prohibited
5-2C-3: Impoundment, Redemption and Sale Procedures
5-2C-4: Feeding Of Feral And Unowned Cats Prohibited
5-2C-5: Penalty
5-2C-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING ANIMALS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, allow or
permit any cattle, sheep, horses, swine, goats, rabbits or poultry of any kind
upon any lot or tract of land owned by or under the control of any such person
within the corporate limits of the City, without first having obtained a permit
therefor from the City Council of the City.
   B.   Issuance by Council; Conditions: Such permit may be granted in the
discretion of the City Council and for such time and for such purposes as may
be determined by said Council, and said Council may limit the number of cattle,
horses, sheep, swine, goats, rabbits or poultry as may be kept in the City
limits.
   C.   Exception to Permit Requirement: The provisions of this Section shall
not apply to any animals kept temporarily in the stockyards for shipment.
   D.   Revocation of Permit: The City Council shall have the right to revoke
any such permit before the expiration thereof, for any violation thereof, or if
any such person shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
ordinances or sanitary regulations of the City. (Ord. 344, 8-2-54)
5-2C-2: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any fowl or any horses, cattle,
sheep, swine, goats, mules or asses to run at large on any street, alley or
public place in the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 297, 2-5-40)
5-2C-3: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND SALE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impoundment: If the Animal Control Officer or other police officer
shall find any animal mentioned in Section
5-2C-2 of this Article running at large, he shall take up and impound such
animal.
   B.   Notice of Impoundment and Sale: It shall be the duty of the Animal
Control Officer forthwith to give notice of the impoundment and of the intended
sale of such animal, by advertisement or by publication at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City, and he shall post said notice
in three (3) public places in the City for a period of ten (10) days. Said
notice shall describe the animal, including natural and artificial marks,
stating the time and place it was taken up and the time and place of the sale.
If the owner of said animal is known to the Animal Control Officer, notice
shall be delivered to him in person in the same manner as a summons is served
on a defendant in an action commenced in the Circuit Court of Oregon. If the
animals are not claimed or redeemed as hereinafter provided, they shall be sold
not less than fifteen (15) days after the posting of such notice.
   C.   Redemption, Payment of Costs: In case any owner shall claim and redeem
the animal impounded by the Animal Control Officer before the sale, he shall
pay to the Animal Control Officer the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) per head
for the taking up of said animal and all expenses of keeping, impounding and
advertising the same.
   D.   Sale of Impounded Animals: The sale of impounded animals shall be made
at public auction to the highest bidder for cash. After such sale, the original
owner shall be deemed to have forfeited all his right and title to said
animals.
   E.   Disposition of Proceeds from Sale: After deducting the cost of
impounding, advertising and keeping of said animals, the surplus, if any, shall
be delivered by the Animal Control Officer to the owner of the animal. (Ord.
297, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
5-2C-4: FEEDING OF FERAL AND UNOWNED CATS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall scatter or deposit any food or other attractants on
public or private property with or without the intent of attracting and/or
feeding any cats not owned by that person. Leaving food outside for any purpose
including the purpose of feeding domestic animals and pets, in a place where
feral or unowned cats can access it, shall be a violation of this section if
the food in fact becomes an attractant for feral or unowned cats.
   B.   This section does not apply to the feeding of cats owned by the
household doing the feeding provided that the owner’s cats are fed in a way
that is reasonably designed to prevent, and does prevent access, to the food by
feral cats and cats not owned by the household.
   C.   No household shall own more than six (6) cats.
   D.   Violation of this section is a Class C Infraction.
(Ord. 590-24, 1-8-2024)
5-2C-5: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be assessed a Class D infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 344, 8-2-54; 1995 Code)
ARTICLE D. VIOLATIONS; INFRACTION 1
SECTION:
5-2D-1: Designation of Infractions
5-2D-2: Infraction Procedure
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code for general penalty provisions.
5-2D-1: DESIGNATION OF INFRACTIONS:
It shall be deemed an infraction of this Article for any person to permit or
allow any dog, male or female, of which they are the owner or have control, to
do the following within the corporate limits of the City:
   A.   Bite a person.
   B.   Run at large upon any street, alley or public property or upon private
property of persons other than the owner of the dog.
   C.   Chase vehicles or persons.
   D.   Damage or destroy property of persons other than the owner of the dog.
   E.   Scatter garbage.
   F.   Disturb any person by frequent or prolonged noises. (Ord. 413, 2-7-78)
5-2D-2: INFRACTION PROCEDURE:
See Section
1-4-1 of this Code for infraction procedure. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age Restrictions; Exception: It is unlawful for any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years to be in or upon any street, park or other public place
between the hours specified in this Section unless such minor is accompanied by
a parent, guardian or other person twenty one (21) years of age or older and
authorized by the parent or by law to have the care and custody of the minor or
unless such minor is then engaged in a school activity or lawful employment
that makes it necessary to be in or upon such street, park or other public
place during the hours specified in this Section. (Ord. 475, 10-3-1988; 1995
Code)
   B.   Curfew Hours:
      1.   For minors under the age of fourteen (14) years who have not begun
high school, the curfew is between nine fifteen o'clock (9:15) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following morning. (Ord. 514-96, 7-8-1996)
      2.   For children fourteen (14) years of age or older who have begun high
school, the curfew is between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. of the following morning; except, that on any day immediately
preceding a day for which no public school is scheduled in the City, the curfew
is between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the
following morning.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: No parent, guardian or person having the care
and custody of a minor under the age of eighteen (18) years shall allow such
minor to be in or upon any street, park or other public place between the hours
specified in subsection B of this Section, except as otherwise provided in that
subsection.
   D.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Minor; Taking Into Custody: Any minor who violates this Section may
be taken into temporary custody as provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 419.569
as it exists at the effective date hereof or as it may hereafter be amended and
may be subjected to further proceedings as provided by the Oregon statutes for
curfew offenses.
      2.   Parent, Fine: Violation of subsection C of this Section by a parent,
guardian or person having legal custody of a minor is punishable as a Class C
civil infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 475, 10-3-1988; 1995 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
OREGON VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Oregon Vehicle Code Adopted by Reference
6-1-1: OREGON VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Each and every provision of the Oregon Vehicle Code as it currently exists in
1993-94 and as it is further amended and changed in the future shall be
applicable to the operation of vehicles within the corporate limits of the City
and is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this Chapter as if
fully set forth herein. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Truck Travel Restrictions
6-2-2: Lug Wheels Prohibited
6-2-3: Compressions Release Engine Breaking Systems Or Jake Brakes Prohibited
6-2-1: TRUCK TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   "Truck" Defined: For the purposes of this chapter, "truck" shall mean
every motor vehicle designed or used for carrying, conveying or moving over the
highways of this state any freight, property, article or thing, and having a
combined weight of vehicle and maximum load to be carried thereon of more than
eight thousand (8,000) pounds. It shall not include any vehicle designed or
used exclusively for carrying passengers, baggage and express.
   B.   Truck Routes Designated: The city hereby designates the following
described highways and streets within the city limits as truck routes:
Main Street between Cannon Street and Quaid Street.
May Street between Court Street and Main Street.
Riverside Avenue.
State Highway 74.
State Highways 206 and 207. (Ord. 423, 9-6-1978; amd. 1995 Code)
   C.   Trucks Restricted On Other Streets: The operation of trucks or other
large or heavy vehicles upon any street, road or highway which serves the same
route or area served by the above truck routes is hereby prohibited, unless
necessary for pick up or delivery service to a specific site within the city
limits. A truck without a load that is not a semitractor truck (a truck
designed to haul a trailer) or a semitractor truck without a trailer may be
driven to the residence of the owner of the truck for the purpose of parking or
for minor repairs. The truck must be parked off street. "Minor repairs" are
repairs that can be accomplished without the use of power equipment. (Ord. 423,
9-6-1978; amd. 1995 Code; Ord. 558-06, 5-8-2006)
   D.   Penalty: Violation of subsections A through C of this section shall be
deemed a civil infraction. Any person found to be in violation of this section
shall be assessed a class C forfeiture pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 423, 9-6-1978; amd. 1995 Code)
6-2-2: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit to be driven
upon any streets within the corporate limits of the city, any traction engine
or tractor under his control, equipped with cleats or lugs on the wheels
thereof or caterpillar tractors, unless the same is covered or kept clear of
the surface of the streets in such manner as not to bear or touch the surface
of such street. (Ord. 309, 1-8-1945)
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and shall be assessed a class C infraction pursuant to
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 286, 2-5-1940; amd. 1995 Code)
6-2-3: COMPRESSIONS RELEASE ENGINE BREAKING SYSTEMS OR JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The use of a compression release engine braking system (commonly known
as a Jake brake) is prohibited on any motor vehicle within the City limits of
the City of Heppner, except where the use of the system is required to avoid
imminent danger to persons or property. A compression release engine braking
system is a hydraulically operated device that converts a power-producing
combustion engine into a power-absorbing retarding mechanism.
   B.   The use of a compression release engine braking system in violation of
this chapter shall be a Class C infraction. (Ord. 541-03, 7-14-2003)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Establishment of Restricted and No Parking Places
6-3-2: Parking and Loading Zones; Enforcement Provisions
6-3-3: No Parking Areas Designated
6-3-4: Parallel Parking
6-3-5: Vehicle and Trailer Parking; Removal for Noncompliance
6-3-6: Truck Parking Restriction
6-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF RESTRICTED AND NO PARKING PLACES:
Whenever in the opinion of the Chief of Police it shall become necessary to
limit the hours of continuous parking of vehicles in certain sections of the
City, or to prohibit parking in certain congested areas, he shall, with the
consent of the City Council, establish such areas as no parking or limited
parking areas. Such areas shall be carefully marked either by painting of curb
lines or by signs indicating the areas to be so controlled. Such signs shall
clearly designate the type of regulations imposed and shall be readable by
anyone driving a motor vehicle within the area. (Ord. 286, 2-5-40)
6-3-2: PARKING AND LOADING ZONES; ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions
apply:
    CITY INFRACTION: An offense against the City in the form of a violation of
this Section that shall be handled in accordance with the procedures
established by this Section. When an infraction is of a continuing nature, a
separate infraction will be deemed to occur for each one hour the infraction
continues to exist and a separate violation may be filed for each infraction.
The only penalty to be imposed for an infraction is a monetary penalty called a
forfeiture. The amount of the forfeiture is as set forth in this Section.
   COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Heppner.
   PARKING ZONES: A certain designated and marked off section of the public
streets where a vehicle may be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for
such a period of time as provided for in this Section.
   PERSON: Includes any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association
of persons.
   STREET: Every public way, thoroughfare and place, including bridges,
viaducts and other structures within the boundary of the corporate limits of
the City of Heppner, used or intended for the use of the general public for
vehicles.
   VEHICLE: Any device by which any person or property may be transported upon
a public highway, except those operated upon rails or permanent tracks.
   B.   Parking Zones: Parking zones are hereby created on the following
streets of the City:
Main Street between Baltimore and May Streets.
May Street between Main and Chase Streets.
Willow Street between Gale and Chase Streets.
and such other locations as the Council shall select as parking zones. All such
locations selected as parking zones shall be done at Council meetings and shall
be duly recorded in the minutes of the Council meeting at which such locations
are selected.
   C.   Marking of Parking Places: The Chief of Police shall have markings
painted or placed upon the curb or upon the street designating each parking
space. It shall be deemed an infraction of this Section to park any vehicle
across any such line or marking or to park said vehicle in such a position that
it is not entirely within the area so designated by such lines or markings.
   D.   Parking Time Limitations: It shall be deemed an infraction of this
Section for any person to park any vehicle in a designated parking zone for a
period longer than two (2) hours. This two (2) hour limitation shall be in
effect between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
P.M., except Sundays and holidays. The Council may designate special parking
time periods for any area within the parking zone. It shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to clearly designate such areas and the special parking time
periods for each area. Designation of special parking time period areas shall
be recorded in the minutes of the Council meeting at which such areas are
selected.
   E.   Loading Zones: Whenever the Council shall deem it advisable or
necessary to provide loading zones on any street, it shall plainly mark such
loading zones with paint or other distinguishing markings and shall plainly
designate at such loading zones the time at which parking shall be prohibited
therein. Designation of loading zone areas shall be recorded in the minutes of
the Council meeting at which such areas are selected. It shall be deemed an
infraction of this Section to park within designated loading zones during the
times parking is prohibited.
   F.   Issuance of Complaint:
      1.   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for enforcement of this
Section. When any vehicle or person is found in violation of this Section, a
notice shall be delivered to the violator or placed in a conspicuous place upon
the vehicle involved in the violation. The notice shall serve as complaint in
the case.
      2.   The notice shall contain the following information:
         a.   The date, place and nature of the charge;
         b.   The time and place for the violator's appearance in court;
         c.   The name of the issuing officer;
         d.   The license number of the vehicle, if the vehicle has a license;
         e.   The scheduled security for the infraction, and notice that the
security shall be forfeited if the violator does not appear at his appointed
court date.
   G.   Amount of Security: A security of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be posted
with the Municipal Judge or at such other place as the Council shall designate
and that is recorded in the minutes of a Council meeting. Security shall be
posted within twenty four (24) hours of the delivery of the complaint or the
placing of the complaint on the violating vehicle unless the delivery or
placing of the complaint is done on a Friday or Saturday. In that case,
security must be posted the following Monday. If the ten dollar ($10.00)
security is not posted as provided above, the amount of the security shall
double and shall be the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00). The security received
shall be returned upon the appearance at the hearing as set forth in the
complaint of the person alleged to have committed the infraction.
   H.   Hearing:
      1.   A hearing shall be provided for each alleged infraction on the date
and time as set forth in the complaint.
      2.   The procedure for the hearing shall be as set forth in Title 1,
Chapter 4 of this Code, with the following additions:
         a.   After due consideration of the evidence and agreements presented
at the hearing, the Municipal Judge shall determine whether the infraction as
alleged in the complaint has been established. When an infraction has not been
established, an order dismissing the complaint shall be entered in the
Municipal Court records.
         b.   Unless otherwise provided by this Section, upon a finding that
the infraction has occurred, the City shall assess the forfeiture shown in the
schedule established in accordance with this Section.
         c.   There shall be no administrative appeal or legal review from a
determination by the Municipal Court of an infraction violation.
   I.   Enforcement:
      1.   If any person fails to appear at a scheduled hearing as provided
herein, a default judgment shall be entered for the amount of scheduled
forfeiture applicable to the charged infraction.
      2.   After a hearing and determination by the Municipal Court that an
infraction has occurred, the City shall assess the scheduled forfeiture
applicable to the determined infraction. Such forfeitures are payable upon
receipt of the final order declaring the forfeiture.
      3.   Nothing in this Section shall limit the City from revoking or
denying any City licenses or permits held or desired by a person owing a
forfeiture to the City.
   J.   Forfeiture Schedule:
      1.   Violators of subsections C or D of this Section shall be assessed a
forfeiture of ten dollars ($10.00) if security is posted within twenty four
(24) hours of delivery of the complaint or the placement of the complaint on
the violator's vehicle or is posted as is otherwise provided in subsection G of
this Section; if the ten dollar ($10.00) security is not posted, the forfeiture
shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). Should security not be paid before the
hearing date and should the alleged violator make no personal appearance at the
hearing as provided for in this Section, the forfeiture shall be determined to
be a Class D forfeiture as set forth in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Violators of subsection E of this Section shall be assessed a
forfeiture of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each infraction. (Ord. 417, 5-1-
78; 1995 Code)
6-3-3: NO PARKING AREAS DESIGNATED:
   A.   No Parking Areas: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
standing, at any time, any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the
designated portions of the following streets:
COURT STREET:
That portion of Court Street at the intersection of May Street, within the
corporate limits of the City, and extending south 40 feet and north 40 feet
from a point in the center of the main Courthouse steps abutting said Court
Street on the east. (Ord. 341, 4-5-54)
The east side of Court Street from Terrace Drive to the curve turning toward
the Fair Grounds at the Junior High School building. (Ord. 384, 11-7-72)
MAY STREET:
That portion of the north side of May Street beginning at the southwest corner
of the First Interstate Bank building and extending 17 feet west along the
north side of May Street.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall, upon conviction thereof in the Municipal Court of the City, be assessed
a Class D infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 387, 11-5-73; 1995 Code)
6-3-4: PARALLEL PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing, at any time, any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, on May Street in a position other than
parallel to the curb or sidewalk along said Street. (Ord. 387, 11-5-73)
6-3-5: VEHICLE AND TRAILER PARKING; REMOVAL FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Time Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person, either owner or agent
of such owner, to park on any street of the City any motor vehicle or trailer
so parked for a longer period than thirty six (36) successive hours, unless the
same is so parked on such portion of such street directly abutting the property
owned by such owner or agent of such vehicle or trailer.
   B.   Notification to Remove: The owner or agent of such motor vehicle or
trailer shall remove such motor vehicle or trailer from where it is so parked
within six (6) hours after being notified by the Chief of Police of the City,
or the owner of the property directly abutting that portion of such street
where such motor vehicle or trailer is so parked.
   C.   Removal by City; Payment of Costs: If such owner or agent failed to
remove the same after being so notified, then the Chief of Police shall remove
or cause the same to be removed and the cost of such removing, together with
the storage of such motor vehicle or trailer, shall be paid by the owner or
agent thereof within ten (10) days from the date of such removal, and if not so
paid, then the Chief of Police shall sell such vehicle or trailer at public
auction after giving ten (10) days' notice, by posting such notice in three (3)
public places in the City and one on such vehicle or trailer, and from the
proceeds of such sale, pay the cost of such removal and storage from the
proceeds of the sale. Any remaining proceeds from the sale of the vehicle or
trailer shall be paid to the owner. (Ord. 330, 5-7-51; 1995 Code)
6-3-6: TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTION:
   A.   Restricted Area: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause
to be parked for the purpose of unloading on that certain portion of Main
Street lying between May and Baltimore Streets in the City any truck or trailer
or truck and trailer.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section,
upon conviction thereof, shall be assessed a Class D infraction pursuant to
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 265, 7-6-36; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Scope
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Taking Abandoned Vehicles Into Custody
6-4-4: Removal Of Vehicle; Procedure
6-4-5: Notice Of Removal Or Sale By City
6-4-6: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
6-4-7: Sale By Private Lot Owner
6-4-8: Entry Upon Private Property
6-4-9: Penalty
6-4-1: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles within the city. It shall not apply to any vehicle which the police
department has reason to believe may have been involved in any criminal
activity. (Ord. 431, 9-4-1979)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLES: Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative or junked vehicles.
COSTS: Any expense incurred in the removal, preservation, custody or sale of
any impounded vehicle.
DISCARDED: Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereon unexpired
license plate and/or is in one or more of the following conditions:
inoperative, wrecked, dismantled, abandoned, or junked. Discarded vehicles
include major parts thereof including, but not limited to, bodies, engines,
rear ends, and transmissions.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not "public property" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary line of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or
facility.
VEHICLE: Every self-propelled vehicle designed for self- propulsion except road
rollers, farm tractors, traction engines and ambulances. (Ord. 431, 9-4-1979;
amd. Ord. 472, 4-5-1988; Ord. 526-99, 3-8-1999)
6-4-3: TAKING ABANDONED VEHICLES INTO CUSTODY:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The open accumulation and storage of abandoned or
discarded vehicles is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the
value of private property, to promote blight, deterioration and unsightliness,
to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive
nuisance and a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage
for rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the city. Therefore, the presence of an abandoned or
discarded vehicle is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Abandonment On Public Property: No vehicle which the police department
has reason to believe is discarded or abandoned shall be parked or left
standing on public property within the city for a period in excess of twenty
four (24) hours and the same is declared a nuisance.
   C.   Storage In Building Permitted: Abandoned or discarded vehicles and
parts thereof may be stored on private property within the city if the vehicle
and/or vehicle parts are completely enclosed within a building. This does not
allow the storage of or operation of a junkyard or vehicle repair business in
violation of city zoning codes. This section does not prohibit storage of
vehicles or parts thereof by a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles
lawfully conducted within the city.
   D.   Abandonment On Private Property:
      1.   Any vehicle parked or left standing upon any private property in
excess of five (5) days without the consent of the owner or person in lawful
possession or control of the property may, at the request of either, be removed
by the police department.
      2.   Any "discarded" vehicle, as the same is defined in section
6-4-2 of this chapter, left standing upon any private property in excess of
five (5) days and not stored in a building may be removed by the police
department.
   E.   Removal: Any vehicle abandoned or "discarded" as the same is defined in
this chapter may be taken into custody by the police department and held and
sold as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 526-99, 3-8-1999)
   F.   Storage With Permit: The owner of an abandoned or discarded vehicle may
apply for a permit to allow storage of such vehicle. The application shall be
on a form supplied by the city and shall include the following information:
      1.   Circumstances for storage and intent; length of proposed storage;
complete description of vehicle, including VIN number.
      2.   The permit will be issued for storage on private property only. No
storage of abandoned or discarded vehicles will be allowed on public streets,
shoulders of city streets, public rights of way, or public property. The permit
shall be granted for the maximum of one vehicle until revoked. If revoked, the
vehicle is subject to immediate removal by the police department. The permittee
shall immediately notify the city when the vehicle is licensed and operable.
The vehicle must remain in movable condition, i.e., with fully inflated tires
and wheels to remain on vehicle at all times. Windows must remain closed and
doors locked, so as to reduce animal nesting and access by children. The area
around and under the vehicle shall be kept clear of weeds and debris. No
vehicle parts may be stored in the open. Violation of any term or condition of
this section shall result in immediate termination of the permit and upon
seventy two (72) hours' notice of permit termination, the police department may
remove the vehicle.
      3.   Approval of the permit is at the council's discretion and they may
place additional conditions on the permit. The permit will be reviewed at the
next council meeting after the application has been received by the city. (Ord.
573-14, 3-10-2014)
6-4-4: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE; PROCEDURE:
It shall be the duty of the police department, whenever a vehicle is parked or
left standing, as in section
6-4-3 of this chapter, to:
   A.   Make a routine investigation to discover the owner and request removal
of the vehicle.
   B.   If the owner is not found, to place a notice upon the windshield or
some other part of the vehicle easily seen by the passing public.
   C.   Such notice shall state that the police department will remove and
impound the vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, within twenty four
(24) hours of the day of posting, unless:
      1.   The owner removes the vehicle.
      2.   Good cause is shown, satisfactory to the Chief of Police, why such
vehicle should not be removed by the owner or removed and impounded by the
City.
      3.   Remove any vehicle which shall constitute a nuisance under the
provisions of this Chapter and store such vehicle upon City property or upon a
lot properly licensed under State laws for the storage of motor vehicles,
pending investigation into the ownership of such vehicle.
   D.   Vehicles which have been impounded may be removed to a private lot,
provided:
      1.   Such lot has been properly certified and licensed under the laws of
the State.
      2.   Such lot has written contract with the City which shall include the
following provisions:
         a.   General summary of minimum security provided by the lot.
         b.   The City shall be held harmless for any damage or theft to the
vehicle, parts of the vehicle or contents of the vehicle.
         c.   The lot shall have insurance coverage which will be sufficient to
cover any theft or damage to any vehicle, parts of any vehicle and contents of
any vehicle.
         d.   The lot shall have general liability insurance in the minimum
amounts of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) bodily injury to a single
person, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for injury to a group of
persons and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage, all relating
to a single occurrence.
         e.   Copies of certificates of insurance required in subsections D2c
and D2d above, naming the City as additional insured, shall be provided to the
City.
         f.   Such other information as may be required by the City.
When any vehicle is removed to a private lot after impoundment, the owner of
the private lot shall have the vehicle appraised by a person qualified and
licensed under the laws of the State to appraise motor vehicles. (Ord. 431, 9-
4-79)
6-4-5: NOTICE OF REMOVAL OR SALE BY CITY:
   A.   Removal:
      1.   If a vehicle has been removed to a private lot, the owner of the lot
shall make reasonable efforts to ascertain the name and address of the owner of
the vehicle. If the name and address of the owner of the vehicle can be
ascertained, the owner of the storage lot shall notify such owner of the
location of the vehicle.
      2.   If the Police Department retains custody of the vehicle after
impounding the vehicle in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, the
Police Department shall make reasonable efforts to ascertain the name and
address of the owner of the vehicle and notify the owner of the location of the
vehicle.
      3.   If the vehicle is registered in the office of the Motor Vehicles
Division of the State, notice is deemed given when a registered or certified
letter addressed to the registered owner and a similar letter addressed to any
security holder shown on the registration at the latest address of each shown
by the records in the office of the Motor Vehicles Division, return receipt
requested and postage prepaid thereon, is mailed at least twenty (20) days
before the vehicle is sold.
      4.   The notice shall state:
         a.   The location at which the vehicle is being held.
         b.   The reason for impounding the vehicle.
         c.   Existing costs charged against the vehicle.
         d.   An estimate of future costs to include the cost of advertising
the vehicle for sale.
         e.   A statement that unless the owner redeems the vehicle within
twenty (20) days from the date of mailing the notice and pays all costs
incurred, the vehicle will be disposed of.
   B.   Sale:
      1.   When a vehicle is held upon City property, if the owner of the
vehicle cannot be identified through reasonable efforts or no claim is made by
a notified owner within the time specified above, the police department shall
cause to be posted a notice of sale.
      2.   If the vehicle has been removed to a licensed storage lot, the owner
of the storage lot shall be responsible for the notice of sale.
      3.   The notice of sale shall contain:
         a.   The sale is of abandoned property in possession of the city.
         b.   A description of the vehicle, including the type, motor number,
serial number and any other information which will aid in accurately
identifying the vehicle.
         c.   The terms of the sale and the date, time and place of the sale.
      4.   The notice of sale shall be posted no less than in three (3) public
places within the city not less than ten (10) days successively prior to the
sale.
      5.   A certified copy of such notice shall be sent to the owner of the
vehicle if such owner has been identified. (Ord. 431, 9-4-1979)
6-4-6: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
   A.   Application For Redemption: An owner may redeem a vehicle which has
been impounded under the provisions of this chapter before a sale has taken
place by applying to the person or agency in charge of the lot where the
vehicle is stored. (If such vehicle is held by the city, the owner may apply to
the police department.)
      1.   The owner must submit evidence of his ownership or interest in the
vehicle, satisfactory to the police department, that such claim is rightful;
and
      2.   Must pay the costs of same that are owing at the time the
application to redeem is made, except the owner shall not be liable for, nor
required, to pay storage costs for a period in excess of thirty (30) days.
   B.   Return Of Vehicle To Owner: Upon compliance with subsection A of this
section, the chief of police or owner of storage lot shall execute a receipt
for the owner and cause the vehicle to be returned to him. (Ord. 431, 9-4-1979)
6-4-7: SALE BY PRIVATE LOT OWNER:
When any vehicle impounded in the city is stored on a private licensed lot:
   A.   Sale Procedure: The owner of the lot may sell the vehicle after thirty
(30) days if no claim shall have been made within that time. Sale shall be made
in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   The vehicle shall be sold at public auction, between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
      2.   The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder, except the
owner of the lot shall not be obligated to accept any bid which is less than
the costs incurred in holding the vehicle.
      3.   After any vehicle has been sold, the former owner shall have no
further right or claim in or to the vehicle.
      4.   A copy of the certificate of sale, together with a statement of the
costs, shall be transmitted to the motor vehicles division of the state.
      5.   The owner of a private lot shall have the right to proceeds of sale
of the vehicle.
   B.   Right To Have Vehicle Junked Or Dismantled: Any junked vehicle having
an appraised value of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or less may be junked or
dismantled as provided in statute. (Ord. 431, 9-4-1979)
6-4-8: ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   The chief of police or the appropriate designated enforcement official
for the city is authorized at all times to enter upon private property and
examine any vehicle for the purpose of determining if the vehicle is abandoned.
However, before entering upon private property, the chief or the appropriate
designated enforcement official, shall obtain the consent of the occupant
thereof or have a warrant from the appropriate court authorizing entry for
purpose of inspection.
   B.   No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of this section until
an affidavit has been filed with the appropriate court showing probable cause
for such inspection by stating the purpose and the extent of the inspection or
other specific or general information concerning the abandoned vehicle and
identifying the property on which it is situated.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to prevent
the chief of police or the appropriate designated enforcement official from
entering upon private premises and inspecting a vehicle when a warrant
authorizing entry has been obtained or when the consent of the occupant of the
property has been obtained. (Ord. 543-04, 2-17-2004)
6-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person who owns an abandoned vehicle or allows an abandoned vehicle to
remain on real property owned by that person in violation of this chapter or
violates any other provision of this chapter may be assessed a class C
infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. A violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense for each day that the violation continues. (Ord. 543-04, 2-17-2004)
CHAPTER 5
MOTOR VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
6-5-1: Short Title
6-5-2: Offenses
6-5-3: Procedures
6-5-4: Notice
6-5-5: Hearing
6-5-6: Release Of Vehicle
6-5-7: Towing And Storage Liens
6-5-8: Suspension Of Notice And Hearing Requirements
6-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as THE MOTOR VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 527-99, 9-13-1999)
6-5-2: OFFENSES:
   A.   A police officer who has probable cause to believe a person, at or just
prior to the time the police officer stops the person, was driving an uninsured
vehicle in violation of Oregon Revised Statutes 806.010 (as the statute
currently exists or is amended) may, without prior notice, order the vehicle
impounded until a person with right to possession of the vehicle complies with
the conditions for release or the vehicle is ordered released by the Morrow
County judge.
   B.   A police officer who has probable cause to believe a person, at or just
prior to the time the police officer stops the person, has committed an offense
described in this subsection may, without prior notice, order the vehicle
impounded until a person with right to possession of the vehicle complies with
the conditions of release or the vehicle is ordered released by the Morrow
County judge. This subsection applies to the following offenses:
      1.   Driving while suspended or revoked in violation of Oregon Revised
Statutes 811.175 or 811.182, as those statutes currently exist or are amended.
      2.   Driving while under the influence of intoxicants in violation of
Oregon Revised Statutes 813.010 as the statute currently exists or is amended.
      3.   Operation without driving privileges or in violation of license
restrictions in violation of Oregon Revised Statutes 807.010 as that statute
currently exists or is amended. (Ord. 527-99, 9-13-1999)
6-5-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   An officer, upon deciding the operator of a vehicle is in violation of
section
6-5-2 of this chapter, shall:
      1.   Make immediate arrangements for impoundment of the vehicle; and
      2.   Provide the operator of the vehicle with notice of impound by
delivering to the operator a copy of a completed "vehicle tow information"
report; a "vehicle tow information" report shall contain at least the following
information:
         a.   The vehicle has been taken into custody and removed by the city
of Heppner pursuant to this chapter and stating the appropriate state statute
violated.
         b.   The location of the vehicle address and phone number of the city,
where information concerning the vehicle can be obtained during regular
business hours.
         c.   The vehicle is subject to towing and storage costs, the amount of
charges that accrued upon impoundment and the daily storage charges and a
reasonable fee to the city to cover its actual administrative charges
associated with the impoundment.
         d.   The vehicle and its contents are subject to a lien for payment of
the towing and storage charges and the vehicle and its contents will be sold to
cover the charges if the charges are not paid by a date specified.
         e.   The owner, possessor, or person having an interest in the vehicle
and its contents is entitled to a prompt hearing to contest the validity of
taking the vehicle into custody and removing it and to contest the
reasonableness of the charges for towing, storage, and administration if a
hearing is timely requested.
         f.   The time within which a hearing must be requested and the method
for requesting a hearing.
         g.   The vehicle and its contents may be immediately reclaimed by
presentation to the city of satisfactory proof of ownership or right to
possession and either payment of the towing, storage and administrative fees or
deposit of cash security or a bond equal to the charges. If applicable, proof
of insurance coverage satisfying the minimum Oregon requirements, proof of a
valid driver's license or proof of valid vehicle registration may also be
required.
         h.   The name of the officer issuing the "vehicle tow information",
the name of the operator of the vehicle (if available), description of the
vehicle, and name of the vehicle's registered owner (if available). (Ord. 527-
99, 9-13-1999)
6-5-4: NOTICE:
   A.   Notice of impoundment shall be given as follows:
      1.   At the scene of a tow resulting from violation of section
6-5-2 of this chapter, the police officer shall complete the "vehicle tow
information" report and deliver a copy thereof to the operator of the vehicle;
and
      2.   After the vehicle is taken into custody, the city shall provide by
certified mail within forty eight (48) hours of the removal, the "vehicle tow
information" to the owners of the vehicle and any lessors or security interest
holders as shown in the records of the department of transportation. If the
vehicle is not registered, reasonable efforts shall be made to ascertain the
name and address of the legal owner or person entitled to possession of the
vehicle so notice may be mailed, if reasonably possible, within forty eight
(48) hours of impound. (Ord. 527-99, 9-13-1999)
6-5-5: HEARING:
   A.   Request For Hearing:
      1.   The persons provided notices in section
6-5-4 of this chapter or any other person who reasonably appears to have an
interest in the vehicle impounded may request a hearing to contest the
impoundment and any charges assessed by submitting a request for hearing to the
city not more than five (5) days from the mailing of the notice required in
section
6-5-4 of this chapter. The five (5) day period does not include holidays,
Saturdays, or Sundays. The request shall be made in writing to the city of
Heppner and shall state the grounds upon which the person requesting the
hearing believes the impounding of the vehicle was not justified. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a wavier of the right to a
hearing.
   B.   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   When a timely request for a hearing is made, a hearing shall be held
before the Morrow County justice of the peace within four (4) calendar days of
the receipt of the request. The four (4) day period does not include holidays,
Saturdays or Sundays. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to the person
requesting the hearing, the owners of the vehicle and any lessors or security
interest holders shown in the records of the department of transportation. The
hearing can be set for a later date if the owner or person entitled to
possession so requests.
      2.   At the hearing, the person requesting the hearing may contest the
validity of the impound.
      3.   The city shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence there was reasonable grounds to believe the vehicle was being operated
in violation of Oregon Revised Statutes 806.010, 807.010, 811.175, 811.182 or
813.010, as those statutes currently exist or are amended in the future. The
city may present evidence either by testimony of the police officer or by
affidavit in lieu of making a personal appearance. If the city's evidence is
presented only by affidavit and the justice judge cannot resolve a question by
information contained in the affidavit, the hearing may be held open for
reasonable time to complete the record.
   C.   Decision Of The Justice Judge: If the justice judge finds that:
      1.   Impound of the vehicle was proper, the justice judge:
         a.   Shall enter an order supporting the removal; and
         b.   Shall find the owner or person entitled to possession is liable
for any towing, storage and administrative charges resulting from the impound;
and
         c.   May find the owner or person entitled to possession is liable for
costs of the hearing, including costs of the justice judge and any witnesses.
      2.   Impound of the vehicle was improper, the hearing officer shall:
         a.   Order the vehicle released to the owner or person entitled to
possession;
         b.   Find the owner or person entitled to possession is not liable for
any towing or storage charges resulting from the impound; and
         c.   Order the city to satisfy the towing and storage lien.
   D.   Decision Final: The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   E.   Nonappearance: If the person requesting the hearing does not appear at
the scheduled hearing, the justice judge may enter an order supporting the
impound and assessment of towing, storage, and administrative costs, and shall
add an assessment for the costs of the justice judge and any witnesses who
appeared at the time set for hearing. (Ord. 527-99, 9-13-1999)
6-5-6: RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle which has been impounded under this chapter may be released
to the registered owner or legal owner, if different, if the owner or person
entitled to possession has paid all accrued towing, storage and administrative
costs, unless otherwise ordered by the justice judge, and shows:
      1.   Proof of ownership of the vehicle;
      2.   Proof of insurance coverage for the vehicle which satisfies the
minimum requirements under Oregon state statute; and
      3.   A release from the Heppner police department which indicates a valid
vehicle registration has been established.
   B.   If the vehicle is to be driven, the driver must also present a valid
driver's license.
   C.   If administrative charges have been assessed, these charges must be
paid to the city.
   D.   Once the vehicle owner or person entitled to possession accomplishes
all of the above to the city, the city will issue a certificate indicating the
requirements of this section have been met and authorizing release of the
vehicle once towing and storage charges have been paid. The certificates will
be issued by the city only during regular business hours. (Ord. 527-99, 9-13-
1999)
6-5-7: TOWING AND STORAGE LIENS:
A person who, at the request of a Heppner police officer takes a vehicle into
custody under the provisions of this chapter shall have a lien on the vehicle
for the just and reasonable towing and storage charges, may retain possession
of the vehicle until the charges are paid, and may have the vehicle sold at
public auction to satisfy the lien. The lien that attaches to the vehicle shall
be a possessory chattel lien in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes 87.142
(as the statute currently exists or is amended in the future) and shall be
foreclosed in the manner provided in Oregon Revised Statutes 87.152 to 87.212
(as these statutes currently exist or are amended in the future). If the
appraised value of the vehicle is seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or
less, the vehicle shall be disposed of in the manner provided in Oregon Revised
Statutes 819.220 (as it currently exists or is amended in the future). (Ord.
527-99, 9-13-1999)
6-5-8: SUSPENSION OF NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIREMENTS:
In all cases where removal, towing or impoundment of any vehicle has been
performed by persons engaged in emergency operations, all notice and hearing
requirements contained herein shall be suspended and held in abeyance until
abatement of the conditions creating the emergency reasonably allow for
providing notice and hearing. (Ord. 527-99, 9-13-1999)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: House Numbers
7-1-2: Riding Bicycles on Sidewalks
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  5-1-3 of this Code for offenses involving property.
7-1-1: HOUSE NUMBERS:
Each residence, dwelling house or place of business in the City shall be
numbered with plain numbers. Numbers shall be assigned by the City Manager as
needed. (Ord. 245, 6-2-30; 1995 Code)
7-1-2: RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Prohibited Area: No person shall ride any bicycle or other vehicle
propelled by foot power or gas on any of the sidewalks on Main Street lying
between the Willow Creek Bridge and May Street within the City.
   B.   Violation; Impoundment of Vehicle: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Section shall be punished by impounding the vehicle so
ridden for a period of seven (7) days for the first offense and for a period of
thirty (30) days for the second and all subsequent offenses, and the police
officers of the City shall have charge of said vehicle and shall keep the same
in a safe place. (Ord. 361, 6-5-61; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Definitions
7-1A-2: Jurisdiction
7-1A-3: Scope Of Regulatory Control
7-1A-4: City Permission Required
7-1A-5: Obligations Of The City
7-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY: The city of Heppner, Oregon.
PERSON: Individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership, join stock
company, and similar entities.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Include, but are not limited to, streets, roads,
highways, bridges, alleys, sidewalks, trails, paths, public easements and all
other public ways or areas, including subsurface and airspace over these areas.
WITHIN THE CITY: Territory over which the city now has or acquires jurisdiction
for the exercise of its powers. (Ord. 520-97, 3-10-1997)
7-1A-2: JURISDICTION:
The city of Heppner has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over all
public rights of way within the city under the authority of the city charter
and state law. (Ord. 520-97, 3-10-1997)
7-1A-3: SCOPE OF REGULATORY CONTROL:
The city has jurisdiction and exercises regulatory control over all public
rights of way whether the city has a fee, easement, or other legal interest in
the right of way. The city has jurisdiction and regulatory control over each
right of way whether the legal interest in the right of way was obtained by
grant, dedication, prescription, reservation, condemnation, annexation,
foreclosure or other means. (Ord. 520-97, 3-10-1997)
7-1A-4: CITY PERMISSION REQUIRED:
No person may occupy or encroach on a public right of way without the
permission of the city. The city grants permission to use rights of way by
franchise, licenses and permits. (Ord. 520-97, 3-10-1997)
7-1A-5: OBLIGATIONS OF THE CITY:
The exercise of jurisdiction and regulatory control over a public right of way
by the city is not official acceptance of the right of way, and does not
obligate the city to maintain or repair any part of the right of way. (Ord.
520-97, 3-10-1997)
ARTICLE B. USE OF SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Definitions
7-1B-2: Restrictions
7-1B-3: Permits
7-1B-4: Insurance
7-1B-5: Permit Fees
7-1B-6: Temporary Storage
7-1B-7: Community Events And Fundraising Efforts
7-1B-8: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
7-1B-9: Penalties
7-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CITY: City of Heppner, Oregon.
COMMUNITY EVENT: A. Any event or activity specifically approved in writing by
the city council or city manager granting use of the sidewalks within a
specifically defined area for a period of time not to exceed three (3)
consecutive days.
   B.   The event must provide an overall or significant community benefit or
serve a significant community purpose and must be sponsored by a service group,
other community organization, or a local business.
PERMIT: Authorization by the city of Heppner to place and maintain personal
property upon a public sidewalk.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association or corporation.
ROADWAY: The portion of the public right of way approved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
SANDWICH SIGN OR BOARD: A double faced sign, not more than four feet (4') in
height nor more than two feet (2') in width, designed to sit on a public
sidewalk in front of a business.
SHOULDER: The portion of the street, whether paved or unpaved, contiguous to
the roadway, primarily for use by pedestrians, for the accommodation of stopped
vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral support of base and surface
courses.
SIDEWALK: The paved portion of the street intended for use by pedestrians
between the curb or lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property line.
SIDEWALK CAFE: An establishment which serves food or beverages from an adjacent
cafe or restaurant to patrons seated at tables located within the sidewalk area
adjacent to the cafe or restaurant. (Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   This article is applicable to the portions of Main Street and Linden
Way (Highway 74/207) between the intersections of Hinton Street and May Street
within the city; and to the portions of May Street between the intersections of
Main Street and Chase Street within the city.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided by this article, or in conjunction with a
community event, no person shall place personal property and allow it to remain
on any portion of the sidewalk. Provided, however, this restriction shall not
apply to decorative planters, public benches, bike racks in locations and in
such amounts as are approved by the city, such approval may be obtained
directly from the city manager so long as it does not affect the right of
pedestrian travel. This restriction shall not apply to equipment placed on the
sidewalk in the normal course of business by an authorized franchisee of the
city, so long as the property does not materially affect the right of
pedestrian travel.
   C.   With like exceptions as above, in instances where no sidewalk exists
within the block, no person shall place or store any personal property of any
kind on that portion of the street lying between the curb and a line drawn
parallel to and five feet (5') outside the curb. This restriction shall not
apply to motor vehicles or trailers so long as the vehicles or trailers are
lawfully parked in compliance with all laws and regulations of the city and the
state of Oregon.
   D.   With like exceptions as noted above, in instances where no curb or
sidewalk exists, no person shall place or store personal property of any kind
in that portion of the street between the edge of the traveled portion of the
roadway and a line drawn parallel to and twelve feet (12') outside the edge.
This restriction shall not apply to motor vehicles or trailers so long as the
vehicles or trailers are lawfully parked in compliance with all laws and
regulations of the city and the state of Oregon.
   E.   In instances where a sidewalk is constructed for only a portion of a
block, the restriction contained in subsection A of this section shall likewise
apply to the area contained in an extension of the sidewalk throughout the
block.
   F.   No person shall store any personal property other than motor vehicles
or trailers on the street side of the street boundary known as a curb. Storage
of motor vehicles or trailers in the space shall be subject to all other
ordinances and statutes relating to parking. (Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-3: PERMITS:
Provided a permit is first obtained from the city manager, persons may place
personal property on a sidewalk with the following restrictions:
   A.   The personal property may only be placed within that portion of the
sidewalk extending three feet (3') toward the curb from the edge of the
sidewalk nearest the building.
   B.   Sandwich board signs may be placed in either the area described in
subsection A of this section or in an area described as being at least two feet
(2'), but not more than four and one- half feet (41/2'), from the curb.
Businesses are limited to one sandwich board sign at a time. The signs may be
displayed only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M. each day.
   C.   With the exception of newspaper vending machines and property belonging
to nonprofit organizations such as service clubs, no personal property may be
stored on any sidewalk except that portion of the sidewalk abutting property
owned or rented by the holder of the permit. Any personal property placed on
any sidewalk by nonprofit organizations in accordance with this provision must
not impede the flow of pedestrian traffic.
   D.   In the case of sidewalk cafes, property in the form of tables, chairs,
trash containers and the like may be placed up to four feet (4') from the
building edge of the sidewalk provided the city council first finds that the
placement will not materially affect the right of pedestrian travel. A sidewalk
cafe permit shall not be issued unless the parties are in compliance with all
laws regarding health, food vending, and liquor and have obtained all necessary
permits.
   E.   Permits shall be valid for the times approved by the city manager.
There shall be no time limits for the permits for sidewalk cafes.
   F.   1. Permits shall be valid until the earlier of:
         a.   Revocation by the city manager or city council;
         b.   The business on the adjacent property closes for a period of more
than thirty (30) consecutive days;
         c.   The use of the adjacent property changes, in whole or in part;
         d.   The structure on the adjacent property is destroyed; or
         e.   Two (2) years from the date of issuance of the permit.
      2.   Permits issued prior to the effective date hereof and in effect upon
the date are hereby extended, and shall be valid for the period of time
described in subsection F1 of this section.
   G.   No permit shall be granted which would reduce the width of the space
available for pedestrian travel to less than five feet (5') as measured from
the inside of the curb to the point at which storage of personal property would
be allowed. (Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-4: INSURANCE:
   A.   Permits may only be issued upon the city being furnished a certificate
of insurance for public liability, food products liability (if applicable), and
property damages insurance in such amounts as may be set from time to time as
the limits of municipal tort liability. The city shall be named as additional
insured on the insurance policy.
   B.   Insurance requirements shall also be waived for permits issued to
nonprofit corporations and other community organizations. (Ord. 570-13, 1-14-
2013)
7-1B-5: PERMIT FEES:
Permit fees shall be set from time to time by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-6: TEMPORARY STORAGE:
The prohibitions contained in this article shall not apply to the temporary
placement of property on the sidewalk during loading or unloading operations.
(Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-7: COMMUNITY EVENTS AND FUNDRAISING EFFORTS:
   A.   Parties wishing to hold a community event must seek approval by written
application to the city council at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date on
which the community event will be held. The application must specify the dates
and time the community event will be held, the location of the community event
and the amount of sidewalk space sought to be utilized along with a statement
of the community purpose of the event. An approval for a community event shall
only be good for those days on which the event is to be held. If additional
time is needed for event setup and cleanup, the permit application must specify
how much time is needed for setup and cleanup. Community events held in
conjunction with a community celebration such as the fair, rodeo and St.
Patrick's Day celebrations need only seek approval from city manager seven (7)
days prior to the event and may be approved by the city manager so long as the
event does not pose a significant risk to the general public and does not
unreasonably interfere with pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Service groups or other recognized community organizations seeking to
use sidewalk space for fundraising events such as bake sales, raffle ticket
sales, book sales, or other events which utilize sidewalk space may receive
oral permission from the city manager for use of the space by contacting the
city manager at least one day prior to the date the event will be held,
informing the city manager of the location the event will be held, and
providing assurances to the city manager that the event will not unreasonably
interfere with pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-8: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   The city manager or the city council shall have the authority to deny,
revoke or suspend the permit issued under the terms of this article if it is
found:
      1.   The provisions of this article have been violated or that an
application is not in conformity with the requirements set forth in this
article;
      2.   Any necessary health permit has been suspended, revoked or canceled;
      3.   Any required insurance provided is not in conformity with the
requirements set forth in this article; and/or
      4.   Any items placed on the sidewalk create a safety hazard or unduly
inconvenience the public.
   B.   Upon denial, suspension or revocation, the city manager shall give
notice thereof. The applicant or permittee may appeal any denial or revocation
to the city council by filing a written appeal within ten (10) days after
receiving the denial or revocation. However, the use shall cease until such
time as the city council has heard and made a determination on the appeal.
After receiving a written appeal, filed in a timely fashion, the city manager
shall place the appeal on the city council agenda for the next regular meeting.
(Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
7-1B-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   The first violation of any provision of this article shall be a class B
infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. Any second or subsequent violation shall be a class A
infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate class A violation and shall be subject to an additional
five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine per day. (Ord. 570-13, 1-14-2013)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Fee
7-2-2: Determination of Grade
7-2-3: Compliance with Plans and Specifications
7-2-4: Curb Construction
7-2-5: Resolution of Council Required
7-2-6: Maintenance by Owner; Notice to Repair
7-2-7: Construction or Repair by City; Cost Assessed
7-2-8: Lien for Costs
7-2-9: Penalty
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Construction Permit: Any person contemplating the construction or
rebuilding of any sidewalk within the corporate limits of the City shall obtain
from the City Recorder a permit to construct or rebuild such sidewalk.
   B.   Permit Fee: The Recorder shall issue such permit for a fee of ten
dollars ($10.00) for each sixty six feet (66') or fraction thereof of the
length of such sidewalk. (Ord. 303, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
7-2-2: DETERMINATION OF GRADE:
The Public Works Director shall determine the grade for such sidewalk and
indicate such grade by proper stakes or markings. (Ord. 303, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
7-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalks hereafter constructed or repaired on any streets within the
corporate limits of the City shall be in conformity with the plans and
specifications provided in this Section.
   A.   Grade Conformity: Each sidewalk shall be repaired in such manner that
its top surface is in conformity with the grade adopted and established on the
street or public place where the sidewalk is being built or repaired. (Ord.
303, 2-5-40)
   B.   Concrete Construction; Durable Surface: All sidewalks shall be
constructed or rebuilt of concrete and finished with a durable concrete
surface.
   C.   Specifications:
      1.   All Sidewalks: All sidewalks shall be constructed according to the
following specifications:
 
Thickness of base 41/2 inches
 
      2.   Entryways to Garages, Service Stations: Provided, that the sidewalks
which also serve as entryways to garages, service stations and other areas
involving motor vehicle travel may use asphaltic concrete according to the
following specifications:
 
Thickness of base 41/2 inches
 
      3.   Certain Streets:
         a.   Main Street: All sidewalks hereafter constructed or repaired on
Main Street from the Willow Creek Bridge to May Street shall be sixteen feet
(16') wide.
         b.   May Street: All sidewalks constructed or repaired on May Street
from the intersection of Main Street to the Willow Creek Bridge shall be twelve
feet (12') wide.
         c.   Other Streets: All sidewalks constructed or repaired on all other
streets shall be six feet (6') wide, or the same width as sidewalks on adjacent
lands. (Ord. 369, 8-7-67; 1995 Code)
7-2-4: CURB CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Manner of Construction:
      1.   Grade Conformity: All curbs hereafter built, constructed, erected or
repaired within the corporate limits of the City shall be built, constructed,
erected or repaired in accordance with and in conformity to the plans and
specifications approved by the City Manager.
      2.   Specifications: All curbs hereafter built, constructed, erected or
repaired within the corporate limits of the City shall be built, constructed,
erected or repaired of concrete and with durable cement surface.
   B.   Parking Area Required: Whenever such curb shall be built, constructed,
erected or repaired as hereinabove provided, the same shall be so built,
constructed, erected or repaired so that there shall be a parking space between
the edge of the sidewalk adjacent to the same and the edge of such curb, as
follows:
On all streets or alleys sixty feet (60') wide or more, a parking of four feet
(4') and, except on Gilmore Street, on all streets or alleys of less than sixty
feet (60') width, a parking of three feet six inches (3'6"). (Ord. 177, 3-26-
18)
7-2-5: RESOLUTION OF COUNCIL REQUIRED:
   A.   Passage of Resolution Ordering Sidewalk Construction or Alteration:
Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary or expedient that a sidewalk
or curb be constructed or altered on any street, alley or public place in the
City, it shall pass a resolution ordering such sidewalk or curb to be
constructed or altered. Such resolution shall specify the date by which the
construction or alteration shall have been completed.
   B.   Copy of Resolution Served as Notice to Owner: The Recorder shall order
a copy of such resolution to be served personally upon the owner of the
property abutting such sidewalk or curb. If the residence of such owner be
unknown, the Recorder shall publish a notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City. Such notice shall be personally served or
published at least ten (10) days prior to the date fixed by the resolution for
the beginning of such construction or alteration of such sidewalk or curb.
   C.   Construction Requirements: Such sidewalk or curb shall be constructed
or altered according to the specifications of this Chapter and other ordinances
of the City in all particulars where the City does not otherwise specify. (Ord.
303, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
7-2-6: MAINTENANCE BY OWNER; NOTICE TO REPAIR:
   A.   Owner Responsibility: After a sidewalk has been built or constructed on
any street, alley or public place within the corporate limits of the City, it
shall be the duty of the owner of the lot or lots adjacent thereto to keep such
sidewalk or curb in good repair.
   B.   Notice to Repair: When, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, any
sidewalk or curb is in poor repair, he shall serve notice on the owner or
occupant fronting a portion of such sidewalk or curb needing repair, notifying
such person to repair the same immediately.
   C.   Unknown Owner; Posting of Notice: If such lot or lots are unoccupied
and the owner is unknown or cannot be found, then such notice shall be posted
in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such posting shall have the same effect
as personal service of said notice. (Ord. 303, 2-5-40)
7-2-7: CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR BY CITY; COST ASSESSED:
If the construction, alteration or repair of any sidewalk or curb shall not
have commenced within ten (10) days after serving notice for such construction,
alteration or repair or shall not have been completed within the time specified
by a resolution of the City Council, the City Manager shall have the same
constructed, altered or repaired, and upon ascertaining the cost of such
construction, alteration or repair, he shall immediately enter such cost,
together with any other expenses incurred, in the lien docket against the lot
abutting or fronting a portion of the sidewalk or curb so constructed, altered
or repaired. (Ord. 303, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
7-2-8: LIEN FOR COSTS:
Upon entering such charge in the lien docket as herein provided, the City shall
have a lien upon the premises for the full amount therein recorded, together
with the interest thereon, and may proceed to foreclose and sell said premises
in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 303, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
7-2-9: PENALTY:
If any person shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter, he shall be
assessed a Class B infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 303, 2-5-40; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND PLANTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Interference with Street or Sidewalk Traffic
7-3-2: Dead or Decayed Trees Prohibited
7-3-3: Penalty
7-3-1: INTERFERENCE WITH STREET OR SIDEWALK TRAFFIC:
No owner or person in charge of property that abuts upon any street or sidewalk
may permit trees or bushes on his property to interfere with street or sidewalk
traffic. It shall be the duty of an owner or person in charge of property that
abuts upon the street or sidewalk to keep all trees and bushes on his premises
and on the adjoining parking strip trimmed to a height of not less than eight
feet (8') above the sidewalks and not less than fourteen feet (14') above the
streets. (Ord. 385, 4-2-73; 1995 Code)
7-3-2: DEAD OR DECAYED TREES PROHIBITED:
No owner or person in charge of property may allow to stand any dead or decayed
tree that is a hazard to the public or to persons or property on or near the
property or on the adjoining parking strip. (Ord. 385, 4-2-73)
7-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof in the Municipal Court of the City, be assessed a Class C infraction
pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 385, 4-2-73; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Rules And Regulations
7-4-3: Penalties
7-4-4: Park Trespass
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words "public parks" as used herein shall mean and include all recreational
properties owned and controlled by the City of Heppner, Oregon. (Ord. 581-18,
7-9-2018)
7-4-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
For the conduct of persons using or frequenting the public parks of Heppner,
Oregon, the following rules and regulations to be observed and enforced within
said public parks are hereby established:
   A.   Fires: No person shall build any fire within public parks except in a
designated stove or fireplace. However, cooking stoves may be used within
public parks if used in safe operating conditions. No fire or stove shall be
left unattended and every fire or stove shall be extinguished before its user
leaves the park area.
   B.   Animals: No person shall in any manner pursue, kill, injure, hunt or
molest any bird or animal within any park.
   C.   Dogs: No person shall permit any dog to run at large within any public
parks, and all dogs shall be kept in control on a leash at all times. Owners of
dogs or other animals damaging or destroying park property shall be liable for
the full value of the property damaged or destroyed, in addition to impounding
fees and the penalty imposed for violation of this chapter.
   D.   Motor Vehicles: No motor vehicle, trailers, or motorcycles shall be
operated, stopped, parked or left standing any place in a public park except on
public roads and designated parking areas or as otherwise approved by the City
administration.
   E.   Hours: No person shall use or frequent public parks between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except during special
occasions or events as may be authorized by the City administration.
   F.   Waste Materials: No person shall scatter, discard or dispose of any
garbage, bottles, broken glass, tin cans, or paper, litter or waste materials
within public parks. All such material must be placed in designated
receptacles. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to haul
household garbage, rubbish or trash to the public parks and deposit the same in
the park or on public property.
   G.   Sanitation: No person shall blow, spread or place any nasal or other
bodily discharge, or urinate or defecate within parks excepting directly in an
appropriate public restroom facility.
   H.   Plants, Structures: No person shall pick, mutilate, dig or remove from
a public park any plant or plants or in any way deface or mutilate, burn,
destroy, defile, graffiti, or remove any railing, building, seat, fence, park
facility, decorative item, any other structure or tree within a public park.
   I.   Signs: No person shall erect signs, markers or inscriptions of any type
within the limits of a public park without a specific permission from the City
administration. Temporary signs posted no more than twenty four (24) hours are
permitted.
   J.   Soliciting: No person while in a public park may operate a concession,
either fixed or mobile, or engage in the business of soliciting, selling or
peddling any liquids, or edibles for human consumption, or distribute
circulars, or hawk, peddle or vend any goods, wares or merchandise, or set up
or use a public-address system in a public park without a specific written
permit from the City administration.
   K.   Public Nuisance: No person shall use abusive, threatening, boisterous,
vile, obscene or indecent language, or gestures in a public park, nor shall any
person cause, attempt to cause, or bring about any public nuisance. Drunken
and/or disorderly conduct shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be cause
for expulsion from the public park.
   L.   Public Drinking Fountains: No person shall willfully mark, scratch,
disfigure, deface or in any manner injure any public drinking fountain in the
City, or throw, place or deposit in any cup or basin of same any cigar or
cigarette stub, or any other matter of refuse whatever.
   M.   Permits Required: Permits shall be required for the assembly of persons
in the public parks to which the general public is invited when it is
reasonably expected that such assembly will be attended by twenty five (25) or
more persons. The City Council may require the person, persons, club, group,
organization, corporation to furnish police, fire, medical, sanitary and clean-
up services. Permits shall also be required for music, art, religious and other
shows and/or displays in public parks.
   N.   Ordinances And Statutes: All ordinances and statutes of the Federal,
State, and City shall apply to and be in full force and effect within public
parks.
   O.   Alcoholic Beverages: No person shall be visibly intoxicated within
public parks.
   P.   Supplement Rules And Regulations: The City may supplement the above
rules and regulations by resolution. Rules and regulations shall be posted at
public parks.
   Q.   Vandalism Of Other Public Facilities: No person who has been found
guilty or plead guilty to an act of vandalism or destruction of any public
facility within the City Limits of the City of Heppner shall be permitted to
use any public park unless permission is given by the City Administration.
(Ord. 581-18, 7-9-2018; amd. Ord. 585-19, 8-12-2019)
7-4-3: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter is a Class C infraction. (Ord. 581-18, 7-9-2018)
7-4-4: PARK TRESPASS:
Any peace officer or City employee may exclude any person who violates any
provision of this chapter or any other applicable City ordinance, or any of the
laws of the State of Oregon from any or all public parks for a period not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) days.
   A.   Written notice shall be given to any person excluded from any public
park(s). Such notice shall specify the dates and places of exclusion. It shall
be signed by the issuing party; warning of consequences for failure to comply
shall be prominently displayed on the notice.
   B.   A person receiving such notice may appeal to the City Administrator to
have the written notice rescinded or the period shortened. An appeal must be
filed with the City Administrator within five (5) days of receiving notice.
(Ord. 581-18, 7-9-2018)
CHAPTER 5
CAMPING ACTIVITIES ON CITY-OWNED PUBLIC PROPERTY FOR THOSE EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Camping On City Property
7-5-4: Violation
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter applies only to individuals experiencing homelessness, and their
ability to sit, lie, and sleep on City-owned public property with the minimal
amount of camping materials necessary to protect them from the elements in
order to keep warm and dry. (Ord. 589-23, 8-14-2023)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, the following words and phrases shall mean:
CAMP:              To occupy a campsite for over twenty four (24) hours.
CAMPING:           Sitting, lying, or sleeping overnight.
CAMPSITE:          A location upon City property where camping materials are
                   placed.
                   Include, but are not limited to, tents, tarps, motor
                   vehicles in a licensed, legal, and drivable condition, other
                   materials used to keep campers dry and warm. "Camping
                   Materials" does not include shanties, lean-tos, temporary
CAMPING MATERIALS: structures, other built structures for the purposes of
                   keeping warm and dry, or collections of personal property
                   and/or similar items that are, or reasonably could be
                   arranged or used as camping accommodations, or anything of a
                   similar nature.
                   Includes but is not limited to the following properties:
                   City Hall; Fresh Water Treatment and Tank Plants; well
CITY FACILITIES:   fields; the Public Works and Waste Water Treatment campus;
                   and similar locations. "City Facilities" does not include
                   City Parks.
                   Includes, but is not limited to, parks, rights of way,
CITY PROPERTY:     parking lots, easements, or other land owned, leased,
                   controlled, or managed by the City. "City Property" does not
                   include City Parks.
                   Includes, but is not limited to, open flames, recreational
FIRE:              fires, burning of garbage, bonfires, or other fires, flames,
                   or other sources of heat including gas heaters.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any item that can reasonably be identified as belonging to
                   an individual and that has apparent value or utility.
                   To move off of City Property or to a different City
RELOCATE:          Property. This definition does not include moving to another
                   portion of the same City Property. (Ord. 589-23, 8-14-2023)
 
7-5-3: CAMPING ON CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to camp upon City properties, facilities,
sidewalks, rights of way, parks, and similar locations, unless otherwise
authorized by law or by declaration of the City Manager.
   B.   Unless otherwise authorized by law or by declaration of the City
Manager, it is unlawful to establish a campsite for any period of time at the
following locations:
      1.   City facilities;
      2.   Sidewalks;
      3.   Rights of way;
      4.   City properties;
      5.   City parks within City limits.
      6.   Any property posted no trespassing or fenced and gated.
   C.   Regulated camping locations are available from nine o’clock (9:00) p.m.
to six o’clock (6:00) a.m. If you cannot comply with this, you can call law
enforcement, and a designated official can give you an alternate location for
the night.
   D.   Individuals experiencing homelessness who are engaged in camping on
City-owned public property shall use the minimal amount of camping materials
necessary to protect them from the elements in order to keep warm and dry.
   E.   RV's, cars, trucks, and other motor vehicles, in licensed, legal and
operable condition, are allowed to be parked in camping locations for the
purposes of this Heppner Municipal Ordinance, regardless of other Heppner
Municipal Ordinances or Code Chapters, unless they are in violation of non-
Heppner local laws or rules, or state or federal laws or rules, that preempts
City of Heppner authority.
      1.   Motor vehicles must remain in area's intended for parking and
driving vehicles, unless explicitly specified. This allowance for parking motor
vehicles in camping locations does not allow for parking outside of designated
parking areas.
   F.   Individuals experiencing homelessness who are engaged in camping on
City-owned public property may maintain the essentials for living but may not
store their personal property on City-owned public property while engaged in
camping unless storage is essential to living while camping.
   G.   Items, behavior, and/or conduct presenting a public health concern or
other danger to the camper or others, including but not limited to uncontained
sharps, uncontained human waste, unauthorized connections or taps to private or
public utilities are prohibited.
   H.   Tents, tarps, and other minimal measures allowed under this Chapter for
the purposes of keeping warm and dry may not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet in combined surface or covered area.
   I.   Obstruction or attachment of camping materials or paraphernalia to
public infrastructure or private property structures, including bridges or
bridge infrastructure, fire hydrants, utility poles, streetlights, traffic
signals, signs, fences, trees, vegetation, vehicles, buildings, or impairment
to emergency response-including within ten (10) feet of any fire hydrant,
utility pole, or other utility, fire gate/bollards, or public infrastructure
used for emergency response-is prohibited.
   J.   At no time may fire be used to keep warm and dry under this subsection.
   K.   Dumping of detritus, waste, gray water, garbage, black water, and
similar items, is prohibited on City-owned public property.
   L.   No alterations, including digging, excavation, terracing of soil, or
alteration of City-owned public property or damage to vegetation or trees is
prohibited.
   M.   Camping is not allowed within one thousand (1,000) feet of any public,
private, pre-, middle, elementary, high, secondary, or career school, childcare
facility or bus stop licensed by the City of Heppner.
   N.   At least once every twenty four (24) hours an individual that has
placed a campsite, camping materials or personal property on City Property must
relocate.
   O.   Persons participating in camping as allowed by this Chapter do so at
their own risk, and nothing in this code creates or establishes any duty or
liability for the city or its officers, employees, or agents, with respect to
any loss related to bodily injury (including death) or property damage
(including destruction).
   P.   Animals: Individuals experiencing temporary homelessness while camping,
and being in charge of any animal, shall keep animals in compliance with
Heppner Ordinances and Municipal Code, and applicable local, state and federal
laws.
      1.   Animals must be kept confined or on a leash and shall be kept under
supervision at all times; and are not allowed to run at large or to commit any
nuisance. All animal fecal matter shall be picked up by the owner or person in
charge of the animal, placed in an appropriate container, and removed and
disposed of properly.
      2.   No owner or person in charge of an animal shall permit an animal,
which is dangerous to the public health or safety, to be exposed in public.
   Q.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, the City Manager or
designee may temporarily authorize camping or storage of personal property on
city property by written order that specifies the period of time and location:
      1.   In the event of emergency circumstances;
      2.   In conjunction with a special event permit; or
      3.   Upon finding it to be in the public interest and consistent with
Council goals and policies. (Ord. 589-23, 8-14-2023)
7-5-4: VIOLATION:
   A.   Each violation of this Ordinance is a class B violation. The amount of
the fine imposed shall be based on Heppner Ordinances and Codes governing such
violations.
   B.   When the City refers a service provider to an individual who is cited
for a violation(s) of this Ordinance and the individual demonstrates they
meaningfully engaged with that or another similar service provider after
receiving the citation and before the hearing, the fine is eligible to be
reduced or eliminated at the discretion of the judge. (Ord. 589-23, 8-14-2023)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER USERS; WATER CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Short Title; Scope
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Service Area
8-1-4: Description Of Service
8-1-5: Application For Service; Deposit Required
8-1-6: Main Extensions
8-1-7: Water Service Connections
8-1-8: Water Meters
8-1-9: Water Rates
8-1-10: Procedure For Giving Notice
8-1-11: Water Billing And Payments
8-1-12: Discontinuance Of Water Service
8-1-13: Restoration Of Water Service
8-1-14: Customer's Right To Meeting With City
8-1-15: Unusual Demands For Water
8-1-16: Access To Property
8-1-17: Responsibility For Equipment
8-1-18: Fire Hydrants
8-1-19: Suspension Of Rules
8-1-20: Easement Grant
8-1-21: Irrigation Water Supply
8-1-22: Penalty
8-1-23: Water Shortage Emergency
8-1-24: Liens On Real Property For Unpaid City Assessments, Costs And Charges
8-1-1: SHORT TITLE; SCOPE:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known as RATES, RULES AND
REGULATIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF THE WATER SYSTEM OF THE CITY OF HEPPNER,
OREGON. By contract, the city council may impose additional conditions on
outside the city water users.
   B.   Scope: The city and all customers receiving services from the city,
whether inside or outside the city limits, are bound by these rules and
regulations of the city. The city council may impose additional conditions on
outside the city water users. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words and terms are used in this chapter, they shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: The person making application for water and sewer service from the
city under the terms of these regulations.
CITY: Whenever the word "city" is used, it shall mean the legally constituted
municipal government of the city of Heppner, Oregon.
CITY COUNCIL: The legally elected group of members composing the city council,
including the mayor of the city of Heppner, Oregon.
CUSTOMER OR USER: An applicant who has been accepted under the terms of these
regulations and who receives water and/or sewer service from the city.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director of the city or his designee.
(Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-3: SERVICE AREA:
The area served by the city shall be all that area included within the
corporate limits of the city and such territory as the city council shall, from
time to time, deem necessary to serve. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-4: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Supply:
      1.   The city will exercise reasonable diligence and care to deliver a
continuous and sufficient supply of water and a working sewer system to the
customer.
      2.   The city shall not be liable for damages resulting from the
interruption in service or from the lack of service. Temporary suspension of
service by the city for improvements and repairs will be necessary
occasionally. Whenever possible, and when time permits, all customers affected
will be notified prior to shutdown.
   B.   Quality: The city will exercise reasonable diligence to supply safe and
potable water at all times.
   C.   Ownership Of System: All water mains, valves, fittings, hydrants and
other appurtenances except "customer service lines", as defined in subsection
8-1-7A of this chapter, shall be the property of the city.
   D.   Classes Of Service: The classes of water service shall be residential
and commercial, as further qualified by the number after the class, as follows:
Inside city limits
Outside city limits
      1.   Residential Water Service: Residential water services shall consist
of all services for domestic purposes, single- family dwellings, municipal
purposes and multi-family dwellings.
      2.   Commercial Water Service: Commercial water services shall consist of
those services where water is used for commercial services, such as a business.
   E.   Service Preference: In the case of shortage of supply, the city
reserves the right to give preferences in the matter of furnishing service to
customers and interests of the city from the standing of public convenience or
necessity. Water service to users outside the city limits shall, at all times,
be subject to the prior and superior rights of the customers within the city
limits. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-5: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application Form: Each applicant for water and sewer service shall sign
an application form provided by the city giving the date of application,
location of premises to be served, the date applicant desires services to
begin, purpose for which service is to be used, the address to mail billings,
the class and the size of the meter service and sewer hookup and such other
information as the city may reasonably require. A request for water service
shall be considered a request for sewer service unless the city determines
otherwise. In signing the application, the customer agrees to abide by the
rules and regulations of the city. The application is merely a written request
for service and does not bind the city to serve.
   B.   Deposits And Establishment Of Credit: At the time application for
service is made, the applicant shall establish his credit with the city.
      1.   Establishment Of Credit; Deposit: The credit of the applicant will
be deemed established if the applicant makes a cash deposit with the city to
secure the payment of bills for service. The deposit shall be a sum equal to
the estimated bill for two (2) months' service. In cases of financial necessity
the deposit may be made in monthly installments.
      2.   Conditions Of Deposit: At the time the deposit is given to the city,
the applicant will be given a receipt for the same. The deposit is not to be
considered as a payment on account. In the event the service is discontinued,
the deposit will be applied to the closing bill and any amount in excess of the
closing bill will be refunded. The city will not pay interest on any deposit.
(Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
      3.   Forfeiture Of Deposit: If an account becomes delinquent and it is
necessary to turn off the water service, the deposit shall be applied to the
unpaid balance due. Water will not be restored to that customer on that
premises or to that customer at a different premises until all outstanding
bills due the water and sewer departments have been paid and the cash deposit
replaced, together with a service charge, as set by city council. (Ord. 532-
2002, 2-11-2002)
      4.   Application Of Deposit: If a water customer has maintained all his
or her accounts with the city in good standing and without arrearage,
delinquency or late payment for at least the most recent twenty four (24)
consecutive months, that customer's water deposit shall be applied to his or
her water and sewer account. The customer shall be notified of the application.
Should the customer accrue an arrearage, delinquency or late payment for a
water or sewer account after the application of the deposit as provided in this
section, the city will require the reestablishment of a deposit in the manner
specified in subsection B1 of this section, as if the customer were
establishing a new account with the city.
For the purposes of initial application of this subsection, repayments of
deposits will be made quarterly, starting with the city's oldest water
accounts. The payments will be applied in blocks of one hundred (100) accounts
per quarter until all the deposits are returned to all customers in good
standing with a longer than twenty four (24) consecutive month account history
with the City. (Ord. 554-05, 4-11-2005)
   C.   Application Amendments:
      1.   Customers desiring a material change in size, character or extent of
equipment or operation which would result in a material change in the amount of
water used shall give the City written notice of such change prior to the
change and the application for service shall be amended.
      2.   Customers desiring a change in the size, location or number of
services shall fill out an amended application. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995
Code)
   D.   Transfer Of Claim For Unpaid Utility Account:
      1.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of a rental property shall be
responsible for any unpaid water or sewer accounts of his or her tenants. Any
tenant applicant for City water or sewer service must contain the name, current
address, and phone number of the property owner. Additionally, the application
must contain a written consent signed by the owner which allows the transfer of
liability for any delinquent utility service accounts of the tenant to the
owner and which certifies the address or phone number for the owner is current
and correct.
      2.   Notice Of Delinquency To Owner: All notices of account delinquency
shall be sent to the owner or agent for the owner at the address that is on
file with City by first class mail. Such notice to the owner or agent for the
owner must be sent within thirty (30) days from the time payment is due on the
account.
      3.   Denial Of Service To Subsequent Tenant: The City shall not deny or
shut off water or sewer service to any subsequent tenant based on any lien for
an unpaid claim for services furnished to a previous tenant who has vacated the
premises unless the City has notified the owner or the owner's agent of any
delinquency by mailing a copy of the notice of delinquency by first class mail
to the last address of the owner or the owner's agent that is on file with the
City, at the time the notice was sent to the previous tenant.
      4.   Denial Of Service To A Tenant With An Unpaid Bill: The City may not
provide service to a tenant if the tenant has a previous unpaid bill with the
City unless the City and the tenant have agreed to a repayment plan.
      5.   Uniform Policy: The City shall have the same policy regarding
disconnection of services for nonpayment of an outstanding amount for a single
family residence occupied by a tenant and for a single family residence
occupied by the owner.
      6.   Requests For Information: The City shall provide information to the
owner or the owner's agent regarding the status of a tenant's account upon
request and within a reasonable amount of time. If the request is made
verbally, the City shall provide the information verbally. If the City
discloses information, the City shall not be held responsible for disclosure of
the information to a person who is not an owner or owner's agent.
      7.   Right To Meeting With The City: Prior to any termination of water
and sewer service, the affected owner or tenant may submit a written request
for a meeting with the City Manager as is provided in section
8-1-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 578-16, 9-12-2016)
8-1-6: MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Within the City Limits: Water and sewer main extensions to areas within
the City limits not presently served with water and sewer shall be installed
under procedures to be established by resolution of the City Council.
Subdividers for newly partitioned properties will assume all costs of main
extensions subject to approval of the City Council.
   B.   Outside the City Limits:
      1.   Water mains outside the City limits shall be extended only at the
expense of the customers served.
      2.   The City Council shall determine the size of the main extensions and
all extensions shall be of a suitable material approved by the City Council.
      3.   Extensions outside the City limits shall be installed by the City or
by contractors approved by the City.
      4.   The installation procedures and materials used shall be in
accordance with the City and the State of Oregon standards.
      5.   Customers shall bear the cost of upkeep and repair for any mains
outside the City. (Ord. 487, 6-10-91; 1995 Code)
8-1-7: WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Definition: The "service connection" shall be that part of the water
distribution system which connects the meter to the main, including the meter
and meter box. The customer service line shall be that part of the piping on
the customer's property that connects the service to the customer's
distribution system.
   B.   Ownership, Installation and Maintenance: The City shall own, install
and maintain all services and installation and maintenance shall only be
performed by authorized employees of the City. The customer shall own, install
and maintain the customer service line.
   C.   Service Connection Charge:
      1.   At the time the applicant files for service where no service
previously existed or for a change in service size or location, the applicant
shall submit, with the application, the service connection charge.
      2.   This charge is to cover the actual cost to the City to install the
service from the main to and including the meter and the meter housing. The
service connection charge shall be as stated in the current published water
rate schedule.
   D.   Size of Service: The City will furnish and install a service of such
size and at such locations as the applicant requests; provided, such requests
are reasonable and the size requested is listed by the City. The minimum size
of service shall be three-fourths inch (3/4"). The City may refuse to install a
service line which is undersized or oversized as determined by a study and
report of the Public Works Director to the City Council.
   E.   Length of Service:
      1.   Where the main is in a public right of way, the meter will be placed
at the right-of-way line nearest the property to be served. The length of the
service connection shall not exceed the width of the right of way.
      2.   Where the main is on an easement or publicly-owned property other
than a designated right of way, the service shall be installed to the boundary
of the easement or public property by the City; provided, the length of service
does not exceed thirty feet (30').
      3.   If, in either case cited above the length of service line to the
meter location exceeds the maximum stated, the applicant shall pay the actual
cost to the City for labor, materials and equipment required to install the
line.
   F.   Joint Service Connections:
      1.   The City may, at its option, serve two (2) or more premises with one
connection. On new service connections, the inside diameter of such joint lines
shall be sufficient to provide a carrying capacity of not less than the
combined capacity of individual service lines of the same size as the meters
installed.
      2.   Service extensions from an existing service to other occupancies or
ownerships shall not be permitted nor shall separate residences be permitted to
receive service through one meter, except under special considerations approved
by the City Council. Each premises served by a service connection or joint
service described above shall be a separate service for purposes of this
chapter. (See resolution 5-4-87.)
   G.   Number Of Service Connections On Premises: The owner of a single parcel
of property may apply for and receive as many services as he and his tenants
may require, provided his application or applications meet the requirements of
the policies, rules and regulations. Each connection shall be considered a
separate service under this chapter. (See resolution 5-4-87.)
   H.   Temporary Service Connections: For water service of a temporary nature,
applicants shall be required to pay in advance the estimated cost of
installation and removal of metering equipment and materials, plus a reasonable
depreciation charge for the use of equipment and materials furnished by the
city. The applicant shall be required to establish satisfactory credit as
provided in subsection
8-1-5B of this chapter.
      1.   Time Limit: Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an extension of time
is granted, in writing, by the city.
      2.   Charge For Water Served: Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established rates set forth in the
current water rate schedule.
      3.   Installation Charge And Deposits: The applicant for temporary
service will be required to:
         a.   Pay the city, in advance, the estimated cost of installing and
removing all facilities necessary to furnish such service.
         b.   Pay deposit in an amount sufficient to cover bills for water
during the entire period such temporary service may be used or to otherwise
establish credit approved by the city.
         c.   Deposit with the utility an amount equal to the value of any
equipment furnished by the city to such applicant under the terms of the first
paragraph of this subsection H.
      4.   Responsibility For Meters And Installation: The customer shall use
all possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other facilities
furnished by the city. If the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost
of making repairs shall be deducted from the deposit refund. If the furnished
materials are returned in satisfactory condition and all bills paid, the full
amount of the equipment deposit, less depreciation, will be returned to the
temporary customer at the termination of service.
      5.   Any service disconnected within six (6) months of installation shall
be subject to the additional fees of a temporary service.
   I.   Customer's Plumbing; Control Valves: The city shall install a suitable
control valve on both sides of the meter as close to the meter as possible, the
operation of which will control the entire water supply to the premises served.
Control valves, if not in place, shall be installed in the event a customer's
service is discontinued for any reason. The cost of installation will be
included in the service connection charge for new connection. Otherwise, the
cost will be borne by the customer.
   J.   Unauthorized Operation Of Meter: It shall be a violation of these rules
and regulations for the customer to operate, cause or permit unauthorized
operation of the meter stopped or any appurtenances on the service connection.
(Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-8: WATER METERS:
   A.   Ownership: The city will own and maintain all water meters. The city
will not pay rent or any other charge for a meter or other water facilities,
including housing and connections on a customer's premises.
   B.   Installation: Installation of water meters shall be performed only by
authorized employees of the city.
   C.   Size And Type Of Meter: Applicant may request and receive any size
meter regularly stocked or furnished by the city, provided the request is
reasonable, and further provided the meter is not greatly oversized or
undersized. The city reserves the right to determine the type of meter to be
installed. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
   D.   Location Of Meters: Meters shall normally be placed at the property
line where the city right of way joins the private property being served,
however the city of Heppner reserves the right to determine the location for
the placement of meters. (Ord. 532-2002, 2-11-2002)
   E.   Protection During Winter: During the winter months each customer will
be responsible for insulating his water meter. The cost of any meter replaced
due to lack of or insufficient insulation will be borne by the customer.
   F.   Changes In Size Or Location: If for any reason a change in the size of
a meter and service is required, the installation will be considered a new
connection and the customer shall file a new application and pay the
appropriate fees. Meters or services moved for the convenience of the customer
will be relocated only at the customer's expense. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd.
1995 Code)
8-1-9: WATER RATES:
Water rates shall be set and revised by ordinance or resolution at the option
of the city council. (1995 Code)
8-1-10: PROCEDURE FOR GIVING NOTICE:
   A.   Notices To Customers: Notices from the city to the customer will
normally be given in writing and either mailed to or delivered to customer's
last known address. Where conditions warrant and in emergencies, the city may
notify either by telephone or messenger.
   B.   Notices From Customers: Notices from the customer to the city may be
given by the customer orally or in writing at the city office in the city hall.
(Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-11: WATER BILLING AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Meter Readings:
      1.   Meters will be read and customers billed on the basis of the meter
reading.
      2.   The city will keep an accurate record on its books of all readings
of meters and such account, for all purposes, shall be prima facie evidence of
the use of water service by the customer.
   B.   Rendering Of Bills:
      1.   Billing Period: All meters shall be read and bills rendered monthly.
(Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
      2.   Billing For Less Than A Full Billing Period: Bills for other than
normal billing periods, opening or closing bills or bills for any other reason
which cover a period less than a full billing period will be prorated to the
nearest week. (Ord. 492-92, 3-9-1992)
      3.   Bills For More Than One Meter: All meters supplying a customer's
premises shall be billed separately except where the city has, for operating
purposes, installed two (2) or more meters in place of one, the reading may be
combined for billing.
   C.   Disputed Bills: When a customer disputes the correctness of a bill, he
shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill at the time the complaint is
lodged to preclude discontinuance of service pending final settlement of the
bill or bills. Subsequent bills shall be paid or placed on deposit in a similar
manner. Failure of the customer to make such a deposit shall warrant
discontinuance of service as provided under subsection F of this section.
   D.   Failure To Read Meters: In the event it shall be impossible or
impractical to read a meter on the regular reading date, the water consumption
shall be prorated on the basis of thirty (30) days per month and the total
water consumption for billing purposes for that period shall be estimated.
(Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
   E.   Payment Of Bills: Each bill rendered shall contain the final date on
which payment is due. If the bill is not paid by that date, the account shall
be considered delinquent, unless other arrangements have been made with the
water department in writing that specifies another due date. A delinquent
account shall be charged a flat fee at a rate which shall be set by resolution
of the city council and shall accrue on the first day of the delinquency. (Ord.
571-13, 7-8-2013)
   F.   Delinquent Account:
      1.   Due Date: Accounts are delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth (15)
day of the month.
      2.   Delinquent Notice: On the sixteenth day the account becomes past due
and a late fee will be assessed on unpaid accounts. The City will mail a
delinquent notice to accounts that are thirty (30) days past due. Five (5)
calendar days later the City will post a notice at the premises stating the
water service will be discontinued following five (5) calendar days if the past
due amount is not paid in full; a notification fee will be added to the
account. Service may be terminated immediately following the tenth (10) day of
mailing of the delinquent notice, or five (5) days after posting of the notice
of discontinue of service.
      3.   Service Turn Off: On the turn off date, the water service technician
or other agent of the City of Heppner shall deliver or post notice to the
customer stating the water service is being turned off until all delinquent
amounts have been paid. The water service technician or other authorized agent
of the City shall immediately thereafter turn off the service. A delivery or
posting of the notice to the premises served by the water service technician
shall be considered delivery to the customer. A charge for turning off the
service, as set by resolution of the City Council, shall be added to the
account.
   G.   Relief When Unit Is Unrentable And Conditions:
      1.   Rate Relief: Upon property application and approval by the City, a
multi-family dwelling that is unrentable for a period in excess of thirty (30)
days because it is being remodeled or repaired may be granted rate relief as is
provided in this section. During the period the dwelling unit is unrentable,
the customer who is the owner of the unit will not pay the basic water and
sewer utility service rate. The charges will be prorated for the length of time
the unit is unrentable. If the property has multiple residential dwelling units
served by one (1) meter, the City will calculate the charge reduction for the
out of service unit.
      2.   Conditions: The applicant shall agree to comply with all ordinances
and sanitary regulations of the City. Additionally, the applicant shall grant
permission to any duly appointed agent of the City to inspect the unrentable
site during the period of repair or remodel without further notification or
permission. The applicant shall not use any water or sewer service during the
period of the remodel or repair at the unrentable site.
      3.   Civil Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be assessed as a
Class B infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any misrepresentation regarding the condition or
rentability of a dwelling unit by the application is a violation of this
section and shall be assessed a Class B infraction. Additionally, any violation
of this section or any other City ordinance or regulation shall result in the
immediate revocation of the applicant's rate relief permit and ineligibility
for any future utility rate relief. (Ord. 532-2002, 2-11-2002; amd. Ord. 578-
16, 9-12-2016; Ord. 584-19, 8-12-2019)
8-1-12: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Customer Request: Each customer about to vacate any premises supplied
with water service by the City shall give the City written notice of his
intentions at least two (2) days prior to vacation, specifying the date service
is to be discontinued. Otherwise, the customer will be responsible for all
water supplied to such premises until the City receives notice to discontinue
water service. The meter will be read on the date the customer has specified in
the notice of discontinuance and the bill rendered which is payable
immediately. (Ord. 492-92, 3-9-1992; amd. 1995 Code)
   B.   Improper Customer Facilities:
      1.   Unsafe Facilities: The City may refuse to furnish water and may
discontinue services to any premises without prior notice where plumbing
facilities, appliances or equipment using water are dangerous, unsafe or not in
conformity with the Plumbing Code of the State. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991)
      2.   Cross Connections: (Rep. by Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
   C.   Water Waste: Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a
customer's premises, seriously affecting the general service, the City may
discontinue service if such conditions are not immediately corrected after
notice by the City.
   D.   Service Detrimental To Others: The City may refuse to furnish water and
may discontinue service to any premises where excessive demands by one (1)
customer will result in inadequate service to others.
   E.   Fraud Or Abuse:
      1.   Refusal Or Discontinuance Of Service: The City will refuse or
discontinue service to any premises where it is deemed necessary to protect the
City from fraud or abuse. Discontinuance of service from one (1) or both of
these causes will be made immediately upon receipt of knowledge by the City
that the condition or conditions exist. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991)
      2.   Service Charge: In all instances where water has been turned off
because of delinquent accounts, a charge to be set by resolution for service
charge, shall be made for the restoration of services along with replacement of
cash deposit as stated in subsection
8-1-5B of this chapter will be required. (Ord. 532-2002, 2-11-2002)
   F.   Installment Payments Of Delinquent Accounts: In cases of extreme
hardship, the City Manager shall have the discretion of renewing service to a
delinquent account upon receipt of a satisfactory installment plan for the
payment of the overdue amount. The installment period is not to exceed the
period of time the account was delinquent. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991)
   G.   Unauthorized Turn On: Where water service has been discontinued for any
reason and the water is turned on by the customer or other unauthorized person,
the water may be shut off at the main or the meter removed. The charges for
shutting off the water at the main or removing the meter shall be computed at
actual cost to the Water Department plus fifteen percent (15%) overhead in
addition to the service charge as established by resolution. These charges
shall be billed to the offending customer and water shall not be furnished to
that customer until such charges are paid and the Water Department has
reasonable assurance the violation will not reoccur. (Ord. 532-2002, 2-11-2002)
   H.   Noncompliance With Regulations: The City may, upon ten (10) days'
notice, discontinue service to a customer's premises for failure to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter unless a lesser time is stated in the
specific provision. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-13: RESTORATION OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Restoration of service after discontinuance for nonpayment of bills
shall be made after payment of current and past due charges, plus a charge to
be set by council resolution for restoration charge, and posting the deposit
required by subsection
8-1-5B of this chapter.
   B.   Restoration of service after discontinuance of service for unsafe
facilities, water waste, abuse or for noncompliance with any of the policies,
rules or regulations will only be made after the irregularity has been
corrected and the water department has been assured the irregularity will not
reoccur. The restoration charge shall be set by resolution of the city council,
and shall be in addition to any other charges due or past due that the water
department may have incurred to correct the irregularity. (Ord. 532-2002, 2-11-
2002)
8-1-14: CUSTOMER'S RIGHT TO MEETING WITH CITY:
Except in cases of emergency, customers shall be afforded the right to meet
with the city manager prior to termination of water service. The city shall
provide such a meeting whenever a written request for a meeting is received at
least three (3) days in advance of the date for termination of the service or
the customer personally appears at city hall to request such a meeting. The
city manager shall extend the date of termination of service until the meeting
can be arranged at the city's convenience. The decision of the city manager in
any matter in dispute shall be final unless appealed to the city council. Water
service may be terminated pending appeal to the city council. (Ord. 532-2002,
2-11-2002)
8-1-15: UNUSUAL DEMANDS FOR WATER:
   A.   Permission Required: When an abnormally large quantity of water is
desired for filling a swimming pool, log pond or for other purposes,
arrangements must be made with the utility prior to taking such water.
   B.   Granting Of Permission: Permission to take water in unusual quantities
will be given only if the city facilities and other consumers are not
inconvenienced. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-16: ACCESS TO PROPERTY:
All duly appointed employees of the city, under the direction of the public
works director, shall have free access at all reasonable hours of the day to
any and all parts of structures and premises in which water is or may be
delivered for the purposes of inspecting connections, the conditions of
conduits and fixtures and the manner and extent in which the water is being
used. The city does not assume the duty of inspecting the customer's line,
plumbing and equipment and shall not be responsible therefor. (Ord. 487, 6-10-
1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Responsibility For Customer Equipment:
      1.   The city shall not be liable for any loss or damage of any nature
whatsoever caused by any defect in the customer's line, for loss or damage due
to interruption of service or temporary changes in pressure.
      2.   The customer shall be responsible for valves on his premises being
turned off when the water service is turned on.
   B.   Responsibility For City Equipment:
      1.   City Equipment On Customer's Property: City equipment on the
customer's premises remains the property of the city and may be repaired,
replaced or removed by the city employees at any time without consent of the
customer.
      2.   Right Of City: No payment will be made to the property owner for the
right to install, maintain, replace or remove city equipment on his premises.
      3.   Confinement Of Animals: The property owner must keep vicious dogs or
other animals secured or confined to avoid interference with the utility
operation and maintenance.
   C.   Damage To City Equipment: The customer shall be liable for any damage
to equipment owned by the city which is caused by an act of the customer, his
tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees or permittees. Damage to
equipment shall include, but not be limited to, breaking of seals and locks,
tampering with meters, injury to meters including, but not limited to, damages
by hot water or steam, and damaged meter boxes, curb stops, meter stops and
other appurtenances. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-18: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Operation: No persons other than those designated and authorized by the
city shall open any fire hydrant belonging to the city, attempt to draw water
from it or in any manner damage or tamper with it. Violation of this provision
may also be a violation of state or federal laws. Such violation shall be
prosecuted and penalties set pursuant to applicable state or federal law. No
tool other than special hydrant wrenches shall be used to operate a hydrant
valve. In cases where a temporary service has been granted and received water
through a fire hydrant, an auxiliary external valve will be provided to control
the flow of water.
   B.   Moving A Fire Hydrant: When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
locations specified by the proper authority, the city has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change the size, type
or location of the hydrant, such person shall bear all costs of such changes.
Any changes in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved by the city and
the fire department. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-19: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
No employee of the city is authorized to suspend or alter any of the policies,
rules and regulations cited herein without specific approval or direction of
the city council, except in cases of emergency involving loss of life or
property or which would place the water system operation in jeopardy. (Ord.
487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-20: EASEMENT GRANT:
Each applicant and user gives and grants to the city an easement and right of
way on and across his property for the installation of water mains and the
necessary valves and equipment in connection therewith. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991)
8-1-21: IRRIGATION WATER SUPPLY:
The public works director is authorized to make regulations governing the time
and manner of the use of water for irrigation purposes. All said rules and
regulations shall first be submitted to the city council for approval. (Ord.
487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-22: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise stated herein, any person violating any of the provisions
of these rules and regulations shall be assessed a class D infraction. The
definition of infraction and procedure for contesting shall be the same as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 487, 6-10-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-23: WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY:
   A.   Authority: The mayor or his designee is hereby authorized, when
necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, to
declare a water shortage emergency to exist in accordance with the standards
set out in subsection D of this section and to implement the water conservation
measures set forth in this chapter. The declarer must immediately attempt to
contact all council members to inform them of the emergency action. The mayor
or his designee shall also have authority to determine whether the various
stages of water emergencies and water conservation measures apply to the entire
city utility service area or to such portions as may be particularly affected.
   B.   Description Of Stage: The declaration of a water shortage emergency
shall designate whether it is a category mild, moderate, or critical water
shortage emergency as outlined in subsection D of this section.
   C.   Authority To Amend Declaration: The declaration may be scaled up or
down during the emergency, as declared by the mayor or his designee.
   D.   Policies And Procedures: The following policies and procedures shall be
implemented during the various stages of water shortage emergency as set forth
in this subsection:
      1.   Stage 1 - Mild Water Shortage: To be issued when water usage reaches
eighty percent (80%) of the carrying capacity of the main supply line, water
available to the city, or to any portion of the city. The goal in stage 1 is to
raise public awareness and to reduce water usage by five percent (5%). The city
shall begin efforts to educate the public regarding the benefits of conserving
water by such methods as distributing pamphlets on water conservation methods,
or such other education actions as the city deems fit. Sandwich boards and
posters shall be posted around the city informing the public of the mild water
shortage, and informing the public on where to obtain information on water
conservation methods. The city will ask all residents to follow a voluntary
schedule of irrigating, sprinkling, or watering lawns or gardens of odd/even
days or every fifth day. The city will only flush those water lines used for
essential uses.
      2.   Stage 2 - Moderate Water Shortage: To be issued when water usage
reaches ninety percent (90%) of the carrying capacity of the main supply line,
water available to the city, or to any portion of the city. The goal of this
stage will be to reduce municipal water usage by ten percent (10%). The city
will continue with all efforts implemented during stage 1. The mayor or his
designee is authorized to establish and enforce a mandatory schedule for
irrigating, sprinkling or watering lawns and gardens. The city will close
municipal pools, halt street cleaning efforts, and halt all line flushing
(except those needed for medical services). The city will request all city
businesses to reduce consumption by ten percent (10%). All pavement or driveway
hosing is prohibited, except that hosing which is required for the public
health and safety. All out of city water users are prohibited from using city
water for irrigating, sprinkling, or watering lawns, gardens, or other real
property.
      3.   Stage 3 - Critical Water Shortage: To be issued when water usage
reaches ninety five percent (95%) of the carrying capacity of the main supply
line, water available to the city, or to any portion of the city. The goal of
this stage will be to reduce municipal water usage by fifteen percent (15%).
The city will continue all stage 1 and stage 2 measures. Filling of private
swimming pools with municipal water is prohibited. All outdoor irrigation is
banned. All vehicle washing with municipal water is prohibited.
      4.   Implementation Requirements: During all stages, and prior to the
implementation and enforcement of any of the above stages, the mayor or his
designee shall make reasonable efforts to have information disseminated to
affected customers regarding the rationing plan, which may include publication
in the official newspaper of the city, or other newspaper commonly circulated
in the area, notifying other media outlets, not less than one week in advance
of the effective date of the declaration, information of the declaration of the
applicable stage, a description of the limitations and restrictions that would
apply, and identification of the effective date of the declared stage and
limitation and restrictions. If it is determined by the mayor that exigent
circumstances exist that necessitate immediate implementation and enforcement
of any particular stage of water emergency, notice to affected customers may be
provided by posting notices at the customers' residences and businesses, or by
positing notices at the locations where customers' utility services are
received.
      5.   Prohibitions During All Stages Of Water Shortage Emergency: The
following situations are prohibited within the systems service area, when a
water shortage emergency has been declared:
         a.   Permitting unreasonable amounts of water to escape down a gutter,
ditch or other surface drain while using water for a legitimate purpose;
         b.   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water;
         c.   Failure to put to reasonable beneficial use any use of water
withdrawn from the system; and
         d.   Use of a lawn sprinkler system during or immediately after a rain
event.
      6.   Term Of Stage And Scope: The mayor or his designee is also
authorized to determine the geographic area to which the declared stage shall
apply, and to determine the duration for which the declared stage and its
limitations and restrictions shall be in effect.
   E.   Water Disaster: Notwithstanding the water shortage stages described in
this section, the mayor or his designee shall also be authorized, should water
become unavailable, to bring in bottled water, or to have water trucked or air
lifted to the city, or to provide for temporary water purification units to
provide a limited supply of potable water.
   F.   Penalties: The first violation of any provision of this section shall
be a class B infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code ($250.00 fine). Any second or subsequent violation shall be
a class A infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code ($500.00 fine). Each day that a violation of this chapter
continues shall constitute a separate violation ($500.00 fine per day).
   G.   Waiver Of Liability: The city cannot and does not guarantee either
sufficient supply or adequate or uniform pressure during a water shortage. The
city shall not be liable for any damages or loss resulting from an inadequate
or interrupted supply, from pressure variations, or for damages from the
resumption of service when such conditions are not due to wilful fault or
neglect on its part.
   H.   Definitions:
    ESSENTIAL USE: The use of water for firefighting, safety, sanitation,
health and medical purposes, and the use to satisfy federal, state and local
public health and safety requirements. (Ord. 567-11, 4-11-2011)
8-1-24: LIENS ON REAL PROPERTY FOR UNPAID CITY ASSESSMENTS, COSTS AND CHARGES:
   A.   Definitions: All charges, costs, and assessments imposed by the city of
Heppner pursuant to ordinances of the city of Heppner including, but not
limited to, water service charges and sewer service charges shall constitute a
lien imposable against residents who own property in the city of Heppner.
   B.   Notification: When a lien is imposable pursuant to the terms of
subsection A of this section, and when the charges and assessments become
ninety (90) days overdue, the owner of the real property to which these charges
or assessments may relate shall be notified in writing by the city
administrator of the city of Heppner of the nature of the charges due and that
the charges will be imposed as a lien against the real property owned by the
owner unless paid within ten (10) days.
   C.   Lien Claim: If the lien is not paid within ten (10) days after notice
is mailed to the property owners, the city administrator shall cause to be
entered in the city lien docket a statement of lien claim and the city
administrator shall cause to be served upon the property owners by registered
certified mail and first class mail, a copy of the notice of lien claim. The
lien claim shall add to the amount of the claim, ascertained in the notice, the
amount of fees actually paid for the recording or filing of the lien notice.
Upon entry being made, it shall constitute a lien against the property for
which the assessments or charges were made. Also, the notice of claim of lien
may be recorded in the county deed record.
   D.   Time Limit On Lien Claim: The notice of lien claim shall exist as a
lien against the property so filed in accordance herein until paid in full.
   E.   Interest: The city's lien shall bear simple interest at the statutory
rate of nine percent (9%) per annum, until the lien is either foreclosed or
paid.
   F.   Option Of Foreclosure Of Lien: The city shall have the option of
foreclosing the lien pursuant to lien foreclosure proceedings as set forth in
Oregon Revised Statutes 223.505 through 223.650. The city's choice, in its sole
discretion, to not exercise its right of foreclosure shall not constitute
either waiver nor vacation of the lien.
   G.   Costs: In any foreclosure action by the city, the city shall be
entitled to such costs, attorney fees and interest as may be allowed by statute
for foreclosure proceedings in addition to the amount due in the notice of lien
entered in the city lien docket. Interest shall accrue at the statutory legal
rate of interest in the state of Oregon from the date of the lien filing. (Ord.
572-14, 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USER CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Short Title
8-2-2: Purpose
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-4: Sewer User Charges
8-2-5: Review And Revision Of Charges
8-2-6: Responsibility For Payment Of Sewer User Charges
8-2-7: Deposit And Use Of Funds
8-2-8: Appeal Of Charges By User
8-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the CITY OF HEPPNER SEWER CHARGE ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 486, 6-10-91)
8-2-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Charges Established for Payment of Expenses: In order to carry out its
authorized function of sewage collection and disposal, the City establishes
charges for sewer service in amounts sufficient to pay expenses of operating
and maintaining such facilities, including administrative expenses, to provide
for replacement and to repay outstanding sewer system improvement debt.
   B.   Grant for Sewage System Construction: The City has entered into a grant
arrangement with the Environmental Protection Agency for construction of sewage
effluent collection and disposal facilities and related system improvements.
The City has agreed that the costs of operating, maintaining and replacement of
the sewage collection and treatment works shall be distributed among all users
of such collection and treatment works in general proportion to each user's
contribution to the total wastewater loading of the sewage system. (Ord. 486,
6-10-91; 1995 Code)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained in Section
8-3-1 of this Title are incorporated into this Chapter. In addition, the
following additional definitions shall be used:
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of sewage. "Treatment works", "treatment system" and
"sewerage system" shall be equivalent terms for "collection and treatment
works".
COLLECTION SYSTEM: The system of public sewers to be operated by the City
designed for the collection of sanitary sewage.
COMMERCIAL USER: Any premises used for commercial or business purposes.
DOMESTIC WASTE: Any wastewater from dwellings.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Activities required to ensure the dependable and
economical function of collection and treatment works.
   A.   Maintenance: Preservation of functional integrity and efficiency of
equipment and structures. This includes preventive maintenance, corrective
maintenance and replacement of equipment.
   B.   Operation: Control of the unit processes and equipment that make up the
collection and treatment works. This includes keeping financial and personnel
management records, laboratory control, process control, safety and emergency
operation planning, employment of attorneys and consultants, payment of court
costs and payment of any costs or fees reasonably associated with any of the
above.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, private or governmental entity,
association, society, corporation or group.
PUBLIC TREATMENT WORKS: A treatment works owned and operated by a public
authority.
REPLACEMENT: Obtaining and installing equipment accessories or appurtenances
that are necessary during the design or useful life, whichever is longer, of
the collection and treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance of
which such works were designed and constructed.
RESIDENTIAL USER, NONRESIDENTIAL USER: A. A "residential user" is a user of a
single-family dwelling.
   B.   A "nonresidential user" is any other user.
SERVICE AREA: All the area served by the collection and treatment works and for
which there is one uniform user charge system.
USER: Any person using any part of the public collection and treatment works of
the City of Heppner.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of the collection and treatment works,
paid by a user for the user's proportionate share of the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of such works under section 204(b)(1)(A) of
the Clean Water Act.
WASTEWATER: Sewage or those liquids or water-carried pollutants and including
ground water, surface water and storm water, whether treated or untreated,
which is contributed into or permitted to enter the publicly-owned treatment
works. (Ord. 486, 6-10-91)
8-2-4: SEWER USER CHARGES:
   A.   Charges Levied: User charges shall be levied on all users of the public
collection and treatment works. Such charges shall cover the costs of operation
and maintenance, replacement, taxes and other administrative costs of such
collection and treatment works. The user charge system shall distribute these
costs in proportion to each class of user's average sewer flow. The charges
shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council and may be revised at any
time by the City Council to meet the costs stated herein. A request for water
service shall be considered a request for sewer service unless the City
determines otherwise.
   B.   Classes of Users: There shall be established classes of users such that
all members of a class shall pay a flat charge for a minimum volume of
wastewater discharged from each residence, facility or other source.
   C.   Review of User's Sewer Flow:
      1.   Should any person believe that the user's average sewer flow is
incorrect, that person may apply for review of such flow as provided in Section
8-2-8 of this Chapter.
      2.   Should the City Manager determine that a user's average sewer flow
is incorrect, the City Manager shall move the user to the appropriate
classification based on actual average sewer flow.
   D.   Records of Sewer Flows: Records of all current average sewer flows
forming the basis of the charges shall be kept on file with the City Recorder
and shall be open for public inspection.
   E.   User's Charges Established by Resolution: Each nonresidential user's
average sewer flow determines that user's monthly wastewater service charge.
Residential users shall be one class of user and an equitable service charge
shall be determined based on an estimate of the total wastewater contribution
of this class of user. Initial user charges shall be based on the usage as
determined in the Sewer Charge Study attached as Appendix A to Ordinance 486 on
file in the office of the City Recorder. Each user's charge shall be assessed
in accordance with the charge schedule established by resolution in accordance
with this Section.
   F.   Fees for Special Users; Surcharge: Any user with average sewer flow
greater than ten (10) times the average residential flow and any user with
above average strength wastewater as described in Appendix A attached to
Ordinance 486 on file in the office of the City Recorder shall be considered a
special user. Fees for the special class shall be determined on an individual
basis depending on both amount of flow and average strength of wastewater. A
surcharge may be added for above average strength wastewater to compensate for
additional costs of transporting and treating such wastewater. (Ord. 486, 6-10-
91; 1995 Code)
   G.   Responsibility for Payment of Charges:
      1.   New Users: In the case of new users, the sewer user charge for all
occupied property shall begin the day connection is made to the public sewer.
      2.   User Charges On Other Property: On all other property, the user
charge shall be started when the water service to the property from any source
has begun.
      3.   Termination Of Service: Sewer user fees will be terminated at the
time the water service is disconnected. Unless the sewer service is
disconnected and capped, the owner of the property is responsible for
continuing to pay monthly on the bonded indebtedness for the sewer system,
regardless of the water shutoff. Disconnection of the sewer may be done only in
accordance with City regulations and after payment of a City disconnect fee.
      4.   Proration Of Bills: Bills for other than the normal billing period,
opening or closing bills or bills for any other reason which cover a period
less than a full billing period will be prorated to the nearest week. (Ord.
492-92, 3-9-1992)
   H.   Maintenance: The owner or occupant shall maintain all sewer lines and
connections to the City main. All maintenance and connection shall be done in
accordance with City ordinance 338 and all other State and Federal Statutes and
regulations. If it is not readily determinable whether the blockage in the
sewer line is the owner/occupant's responsibility the City may, using City
personnel or outside contractors, investigate and perform any work necessary to
resolve the problem. If the Public Works Director determines that the problem
was within the owner/occupant's responsibility the City will charge the owner/
occupant with the actual cost of work done. (Ord. 486, 6-10-1991)
   I.   Relief When Unit Is Unrentable And Conditions:
      1.   Rate Relief: Upon property application and approval by the City, a
multi-family dwelling that is unrentable for a period in excess of thirty (30)
days because it is being remodeled or repaired may be granted rate relief as is
provided in this section. During the period the dwelling unit is unrentable,
the customer who is the owner of the unit will not pay the basic water and
sewer utility service rate. The charges will be prorated for the length of time
the unit is unrentable. If the property has multiple residential dwelling units
served by one (1) meter, the City will calculate the charge reduction for the
out of service unit.
      2.   Conditions: The applicant shall agree to comply with all ordinances
and sanitary regulations of the City. Additionally, the applicant shall grant
permission to any duly appointed agent of the City to inspect the unrentable
site during the period of repair or remodel without further notification or
permission. The applicant shall not use any water or sewer service during the
period of the remodel or repair at the unrentable site.
      3.   Civil Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be assessed as a
Class B infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any misrepresentation regarding the condition or
rentability of a dwelling unit by the application is a violation of this
section and shall be assessed a Class B infraction. Additionally, any violation
of this section or any other City ordinance or regulation shall result in the
immediate revocation of the applicant's rate relief permit and ineligibility
for any future utility rate relief.
   J.   Transfer Of Claim For Unpaid Utility Account:
      1.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of a rental property shall be
responsible for any unpaid water or sewer accounts of his or her tenants. Any
tenant applicant for City water or sewer service must contain the name, current
address, and phone number of the property owner. Additionally, the application
must contain a written consent signed by the owner which allows the transfer of
liability for any delinquent utility service accounts of the tenant to the
owner and which certifies the address or phone number for the owner is current
and correct.
      2.   Notice Of Delinquency To Owner: All notices of account delinquency
shall be sent to the owner or agent for the owner at the address that is on
file with City by first class mail. Such notice to the owner or agent for the
owner must be sent within thirty (30) days from the time payment is due on the
account.
      3.   Denial Of Service To Subsequent Tenant: The City shall not deny or
shut off water or sewer service to any subsequent tenant based on any lien for
an unpaid claim for services furnished to a previous tenant who has vacated the
premises unless the City has notified the owner or the owner's agent of any
delinquency by mailing a copy of the notice of delinquency by first class mail
to the last address of the owner or the owner's agent that is on file with the
City, at the time the notice was sent to the previous tenant.
      4.   Denial Of Service To A Tenant With An Unpaid Bill: The City may not
provide service to a tenant if the tenant has a previous unpaid bill with the
City unless the City and the tenant have agreed to a repayment plan.
      5.   Uniform Policy: The City shall have the same policy regarding
disconnection of services for nonpayment of an outstanding amount for a single
family residence occupied by a tenant and for a single family residence
occupied by the owner.
      6.   Requests For Information: The City shall provide information to the
owner or the owner's agent regarding the status of a tenant's account upon
request and within a reasonable amount of time. If the request is made
verbally, the City shall provide the information verbally. If the City
discloses information, the City shall not be held responsible for disclosure of
the information to a person who is not an owner or owner's agent.
      7.   Right To Meeting With The City: Prior to any termination of water
and sewer service, the affected owner or tenant may submit a written request
for a meeting with the City Manager as is provided in section
8-1-14 of this title. (Ord. 578-16, 9-12-2016)
8-2-5: REVIEW AND REVISION OF CHARGES:
The sewer user charges established by resolution shall be reviewed biannually
and revised periodically to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance and
replacement of the collection and treatment works and to maintain the
equitability of the user charge based on the costs of operation and maintenance
in proportion to each user's contribution to the total sewer flow. Each user
shall be notified at least annually in conjunction with a regular bill that
portion of his charge which is attributable to operation, maintenance and
replacement of the collection system and that portion attributable to other
costs. (Ord. 486, 6-10-1991)
8-2-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF SEWER USER CHARGES:
   A.   Any person who occupies premises served by the sewerage system shall be
responsible for payment of the sewer user charge for that property.
   B.   The users shall be billed and shall pay as provided in section
8-1-11 of this title, which is incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 486, 6-
10-1991)
   C.   Liens: See section
8-1-24 of this title. (Ord. 572-14, 2-10-2014)
8-2-7: DEPOSIT AND USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   Deposit Funds Into Sewer Fund: The City Treasurer is hereby directed to
deposit in the Sewer Fund all of the gross revenues received from charges and
fees collected for the use of the sewerage system as herein provided, except
for that portion to be placed in a Reserve Fund for equipment replacement and
that portion to be used to pay any sewer bond payments.
   B.   Use Of Funds: The revenues thus deposited in the Sewer Fund shall be
used exclusively for the operation, maintenance and repair of the sewerage
system, reasonable administration costs, expenses of collection of charges
imposed by this chapter and of connection fees provided for in subsection
8-3-4B of this title together with any attorney fees, investigative fees or
court costs incurred therein and payments of the principal and interest on any
debts in connection with the sewerage system of the City. (Ord. 486, 6-10-1991;
amd. 1995 Code)
8-2-8: APPEAL OF CHARGES BY USER:
   A.   Request For Review Of Charges: Any sewer user who feels his sewer user
charge is unjust and inequitable as applied to that person's premises under the
foregoing provisions may, within thirty (30) days of the City Council's
resolution establishing charges or within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
first billing under this chapter, make written application to the City Manager
requesting a review of their user charge. Said written request shall, where
necessary, show the actual or established average flow of that person's
wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the charge is based,
including how the measurements or estimates were made.
   B.   Recomputation Of User Charge: If the City Manager determines the
request is substantiated, the user charge for the user shall be recomputed,
based on the approved revised flow or strength data and the new charge shall be
applicable retroactively up to six (6) months, as appropriate. Any refund shall
be applied as a credit to future water and sewer billings.
   C.   Appeal By User; Payment Of Fees: Any appeal undertaken herein shall not
excuse the user from paying all sewer user charges as they are assessed.
Failure to pay such charge shall subject the user to the penalties provided in
section
8-2-6 of this chapter. A subsequent ruling on appeal favorable to the sewer
user shall not act to extinguish any penalties or interest assessed against the
user for nonpayment of any user fees; provided, however, that such penalties
and interest shall be recomputed consistent with any reduction in user fees
allowed on appeal. (Ord. 486, 6-10-1991)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Use of Public Sewers Required
8-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal
8-3-4: Building Sewers and Connections
8-3-5: Sewer Use Requirements and Restrictions
8-3-6: Protection from Damage
8-3-7: Powers and Authority of Inspectors
8-3-8: Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) Centigrade, expressed in
parts per million by weight.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
DIRECTOR: The Public Works Director of the City of Heppner or his authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
testing sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory. "May" is permissive.
STORM SEWER: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but
excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53)
8-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Garbage Deposits Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an insanitary manner, upon public
or private property within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges to Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
City, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Privies and Septic Tanks Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, it
shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection to Sewer System Required, Exception: The owners of all
houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting on any
street, alley or right of way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City, are hereby
required, at their expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and
to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter within thirty (30) days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within one
hundred feet (100') of the property line. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53)
8-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Connection to Private System Where Public System Not Available: Where a
public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of
subsection
8-3-2D of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Public Works Director. The application for such permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the City which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as is deemed necessary by the Public Works
Director. A permit and inspection fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid
to the City Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection of System Installation: A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director. He shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Director when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the
Public Works Director.
   D.   Compliance with State Regulations: The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the State. No permit
shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than five thousand
(5,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   E.   Abandonment of Private System upon Availability of Public Sewer: At
such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private
sewage disposal system as provided in subsection
8-3-2D of this Chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this Chapter and, when made, any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and when required
by the City, filled with suitable material.
   F.   Operation in Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this Section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the City, County or State Health Officer. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53; 1995 Code)
8-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
(Ord. 338, 3-4-53)
   B.   Classes of Permits; Fees: There shall be two (2) classes of building
sewer permits: 1) for residential and commercial service, and 2) for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the City. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Public Works Director.
All inspection and connection fees shall be set by resolution or ordinance by
the City Council. (Ord. 381, 4-3-72; 1995 Code)
   C.   Expense Borne by Owner; Nonliability of City: All costs and expense
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   D.   Separate Building Sewers; Exception: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   E.   Old Building Sewers to Meet Requirements: Old building sewers may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination
and test by the Public Works Director, to meet all requirements of this
Chapter.
   F.   Pipe and Joint Specifications: The building sewer shall be cast iron
soil pipe, ASTM specification C13-44T or equal or other suitable material
approved by the Public Works Director. Joints shall be tight and waterproof.
Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet (10') of a water
service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded joints.
Cast iron pipe with leaded joints may be required by the Public Works Director
where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in
filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe,
except that nonmetallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete
bed or cradle as approved by the Public Works Director. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53)
   G.   Size and Slope: The size and slope of the building sewer shall be
subject to approval of the Public Works Director, but in no event shall the
diameter be less than three inches (3") for a residential service and six
inches (6") for other uses. The slope of such three inch (3") pipe shall be not
less than one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot and a slope of such six inch (6")
pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot. (Ord. 468, 7-6-87;
1995 Code)
   H.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall
be laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
   I.   Building Drain: In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   J.   Excavations; Inspection:
      1.   Specifications; Inspection: All excavations required for the
installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise
approved by the Public Works Director. Pipe laying and backfill shall be
performed in accordance with ASTM Specification C12-19, except that no backfill
shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
      2.   Barricades Required; Restoration: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the City.
   K.   Joints and Connections:
      1.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
      2.   Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, Federal Specification QQ-L-156, not less than one inch
(1") deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint,
varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until
after the joint has been tested and approved.
      3.   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such pipe and metals
shall be made with approved hot-poured jointing material or cement mortar as
specified below.
      4.   Material for hot-poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to
destroy the effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of one
hundred sixty degrees (160o) Fahrenheit, nor be soluble in any of the wastes
carried by the drainage system. The joint shall first be caulked tight with
jute, hemp or similar approved material.
      5.   Cement joints shall be made by packing a closely twisted jute or
oakum gasket of suitable size to fill partly the annular space between the
pipes. The remaining space shall be filled and firmly compacted with mortar
composed of one part Portland cement and three (3) parts mortar sand. The
material shall be mixed dry, only sufficient water shall be added to make the
mixture workable. Mortar which has begun to set shall not be used or
retempered. Lime putty or hydrated lime may be substituted to the extent of not
more than twenty five percent (25%) of the volume of the Portland cement that
may be added.
      6.   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Public Works Director.
   L.   Connection of Building Sewer to Public Sewer: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the "Y" branch, if such
branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer is twelve
inches (12") in diameter or less and no properly located "Y" branch is
available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a "Y" branch in the public
sewer at the location specified by the Public Works Director. Where the public
sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in diameter and no properly located
"Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to
receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle
of about forty five degrees (45o). A forty five degree (45o) ell may be used to
make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the
inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the
point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the
connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the Public Works
Director.
   M.   Notification to Inspect Building Sewer: The applicant for the building
sewer permit shall notify the Public Works Director when the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall
be made under the supervision of the Public Works Director or his
representative. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53; 1995 Code)
8-3-5: SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Public Works Director. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of
the Public Works Director, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees (150o) Fahrenheit.
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, fruit seeds, mud, straw, shavings, metal,
glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths
(5.5) or higher than nine (9.0) or having any other corrosive property capable
of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the
sewage works.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   D.   Grease, Oil and Sand Interceptors:
      1.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Public
Works Director and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      2.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   E.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
   F.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having 1)
a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred (300) parts
per million by weight, or 2) containing more than three hundred fifty (350)
parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or 3) containing any quantity
of substances having the characteristics described in subsection C of this
Section, or 4) having an average daily flow grater than two percent (2%) of the
average daily sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Public Works Director. Where necessary, in the opinion of the
Public Works Director, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to: 1) reduce the biochemical oxygen
demand to three hundred (300) parts per million and the suspended solids to
three hundred fifty (350) parts per million by weight, or 2) reduce
objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in subsection C of this Section, or 3) control the quantities and
rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any
other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment
facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the Public Works Director and
of the State Board of Health, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   When required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Public Works Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   I.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in subsections C and F of this Section
shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage", and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for
in subsection H of this Section, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   J.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53)
8-3-6: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the Municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53)
8-3-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
338, 3-4-53)
8-3-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter, except
Section
8-3-6, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this Section shall be assessed a Class D
infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 338, 3-4-53; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Requirements
8-4-3: Notices
8-4-4: Discontinuance Of Service (Shut Off)
8-4-5: Inspections
8-4-6: Penalties
8-4-7: Liability
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
AWWA: The American Water Works Association.
AIR GAP SEPARATION: The physical vertical separation between the free flowing
discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and the open or nonpressure
receiving vessel.
APPROVAL OR APPROVED: Approved in writing.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any supply of water used upon the premises other than,
or in addition to the supply obtained from the city potable water system.
BACKFLOW: The flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow of water from
the city system.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE OR BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE ASSEMBLY: Oregon state
health division approved backflow prevention device such as a vacuum breaker,
pressure vacuum breaker, a double check valve assembly, or a reduced pressure
principle device assembly, and the attached shutoff valves on the inlet and
outlet ends of the device assembled as a complete unit.
CHECK VALVE: A valve which allows flow in only one direction.
CITY WATER SYSTEM: The potable water system of the city of Heppner.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any link or channel between the piping which carries drinking
water and the piping or fixtures which carry other water or other substances.
DIVISION: The health division of the Oregon department of human resources.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly approved by the Oregon state health
division consisting of two (2) independently acting check valves with shutoff
valves on each side of the check valves and test cocks for checking the
watertightness of each check valve.
OWNER: Any person owning a beneficial interest with a right of possession in
property served by the municipal water system, any occupant of any premises
served by the city water system and any customer or water user of the city
water system.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership,
municipal, state or federal agency, or joint stock company and includes any
receiver, special master, trustee, assignee or other similar representative
thereof.
POTABLE WATER: Safe drinking water.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director for the city of Heppner or the
public works director's designee.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RP DEVICE): A device
approved by the Oregon state health division for preventing backflow which has
two (2) check valves, a differential relief valve located between the two (2)
check valves, two (2) shutoff valves, one on the upstream side and the other on
the downstream side of the check valves, and four (4) test cocks for checking
the watertightness of the check valves and the operation of the relief valve.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The piping connection by means of which water is conveyed
from a distribution main of a public water system to a customer's premises. The
portion of the service connection which conveys water from the distribution
main to the customer's property line, or to the service meter where provided,
is owned by and under the jurisdiction of the water supplier.
WATER SYSTEM: A system for the provision of piped water for human consumption.
(Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
8-4-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever a water user or the owner of the premises obtaining water from
the city water system treats the water in any way or adds any chemical or
substance to the water, and such treated water is susceptible to a backflow,
such person shall immediately notify the public works director.
   B.   Backflow prevention device assemblies for protecting the city water
system shall be installed on the owner's side of the service connection to
premises where an approved air gap does not exist when there is an auxiliary
water supply which is connected to the potable water piping; or
      1.   There is intricate plumbing which makes it impractical to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist; or
      2.   There is unprotected back siphonage potential; or
      3.   Unprotected cross connections exist; or
      4.   There is an auxiliary water supply which could be connected to the
potable water piping, or potential cross connections exist unless all of the
following requirements are met:
         a.   The owner(s) makes written request for a variance.
         b.   The owner(s) has signed an affidavit stating that there is no
cross connection with the city water system, and that if ownership of the
property changes, the new owner(s) will install the required device unless the
new owner(s) obtains a variance prior to receiving water from the city.
         c.   The owner(s) has obtained an inspection of the plumbing by the
public works director, and the public works director has approved the variance,
in writing, setting forth any reasonable requirement for protecting the safety
and integrity of the city water system.
Should the public works director deny the variance, the owner(s) may, within
sixty (60) days, submit a written appeal to the public works committee and
request a hearing. Upon hearing the appeal, the public works committee shall
either grant a variance subject to whatever conditions it may require, or deny
the variance.
Should the public works committee deny the variance, the owner(s) may, within
thirty (30) days submit a written appeal to the city council and request a
hearing. Upon hearing the appeal, the city council shall either grant the
variance subject to whatever conditions it may require, or deny the variance.
The decision of the city council shall be final. (Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
8-4-3: NOTICES:
Any notice required or permitted under this chapter shall be deemed given upon
mailing to the address of the premises served or to the billing address of the
water user listed with the city water department. (Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
8-4-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE (SHUT OFF): The public works director may shut
off the water service to any premises when:
   A.   A violation of this chapter continues after the expiration of any
notice period provided under this chapter; or
   B.   Immediately, upon determination that an emergency exists or that a
substantial hazard exists due to the potential for backflow of hazardous
substances; or
   C.   Immediately upon the refusal of any water user or owner of premises to
permit inspection, or if the public works director is unable to contact the
water user or owner to arrange for an inspection, and has given notice of such
request prior to shutting off the water service. (Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
8-4-5: INSPECTIONS:
All water users and owners of premises served by the city water system shall
permit inspections by the public works director, at such times as the public
works director may designate, for purposes of determining whether the water
user or owner is in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
8-4-6: PENALTIES:
Violation of this chapter is a class B infraction pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
8-4-7: LIABILITY:
The water user or owner shall be strictly liable for any backflow incident from
his premises, and shall pay the costs for any required remedial action and any
associated claims of injury, medical expense, or long or short term health
effects. (Ord. 525-98, 12-14-1998)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code; Fire Zones
9-1-2: Zoning Permits for Building Construction
9-1-3: Supply and Pressure and Relief Valves; Plumbing Code Compliance
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE; FIRE ZONES:
   A.   Fire Zone 2; Compliance with Oregon Uniform Building Code: All areas of
the incorporated City currently zoned commercial or industrial under the
Heppner Zoning Ordinance 1  and its accompanying Zoning Map and all amendments
thereto are hereby zoned Fire Zone 2 as designated by the Oregon Uniform
Building Code, 1973 Edition, or such later edition as the Oregon State
Department of Commerce may designate as the official Building Code for the
State of Oregon.
   B.   Fire Zone 3; Compliance with Oregon Uniform Building Code: All other
areas of Heppner are zoned Fire Zone 3 as designated by the Oregon Uniform
Building Code, 1973 Edition, or such later edition as the Oregon State
Department shall designate as the official Building Code for the State.
   C.   Structure Requirements: All structures built in the City shall meet the
requirements of the Building Code for Fire Zones 2 and 3. (Ord. 425, 11-6-78)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11 of this Code.
9-1-2: ZONING PERMITS FOR BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Application for Zoning Permit: No person shall construct any building
or structure or any addition or additions thereto within the corporate limits
of the City or repair, alter or remodel the same when such construction,
addition, repair, alteration or remodeling will require a building permit
issued by the State, unless such person shall, before starting such
construction, addition, repair, alteration or remodeling, file with the City
Manager, as hereinafter set forth, an application for a zoning permit, which
application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or his duly authorized
agent, and shall set forth:
      1.   The name of the applicant and his address;
      2.   The legal description and address of the property;
      3.   A brief description of the project;
      4.   Setbacks, lot area and width of the lot at the building line;
      5.   Whether or not a conditional use or variance is required;
      6.   Use of the building or structure;
      7.   Fee requirements;
      8.   Utilities to be connected;
      9.   Whether or not the building or structure is located in the flood
hazard area;
      10.   A plot plan indicating:
         a.   Property dimensions.
         b.   Setbacks and width of lot at building line.
         c.   Scale and north arrow.
         d.   Existing and proposed roads and driveways.
         e.   Existing and proposed building or structure.
      11.   Signature of the applicant certifying the information in the
application is correct.
   B.   Issuance of Zoning Permit: The zoning permit shall be issued by the
City Manager after the City conducts an appropriate investigation and
determines the applicant to be in compliance with the City Zoning Ordinance 1 .
The applicant shall, at the City's request, supply the City with a survey of
the property by a State certified surveyor, whenever the City Manager cannot
accurately establish lot boundaries.
   C.   Permit Fee: Fee for permit issuance shall be twenty dollars ($20.00).
   D.   Referral to Planning Commission: Any construction, addition, repair,
alteration or remodeling requiring a conditional use or variance shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for appropriate action before the Manager
shall issue a zoning permit.
   E.   Expiration Date: The zoning permit shall expire six (6) months from the
date of its issuance.
   F.   Issuance of Citation and Complaint: If any violation of this Section
occurs, the offense shall be considered an infraction as defined in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   G.   Schedule of Forfeiture: A person found in violation of this Section
shall be assessed a Class D infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 421, 8-7-78; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11 of this Code.
9-1-3: SUPPLY AND PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES; PLUMBING CODE COMPLIANCE:
Supply valves, temperature and pressure relief valves, and check valves or
vacuum breakers are hereby required, and shall comply with the Oregon State
Plumbing Code.
   A.   All connections to the City water system must have workable supply
valves, independent of the meter valve and all hot water heaters connected to
the City water system must have supply valves.
   B.   All hot water tanks or heaters connected to the City water system must
have temperature and pressure relief valves.
   C.   All hot water heaters or tanks connected to the City water system must
be protected from backflow or back siphonage by a check valve or vacuum breaker
in the supply line. (Ord. 378, 12-1-69)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption of Uniform Fire Code
9-2-2: Establishment and Duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
9-2-3: Definition
9-2-4: Establishment of Limits of Districts in Which Storage of Flammable or
Combustible Liquids in Outside Aboveground Tanks is Prohibited
9-2-5: Establishment of Limits of Districts in Which Storage of Explosives and
Blasting Agents is to be Prohibited
9-2-6: Appeals
9-2-7: Penalty
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire, hazardous
materials or explosion, that certain code and standards known as the UNIFORM
FIRE CODE and the UNIFORM FIRE CODE STANDARDS published by the International
Fire Code Institute, being particularly the 1991 Editions thereof and the whole
thereof, as the same are currently adopted by the State and all future
revisions of the Code that are adopted by the State. One copy of the Code and
Standards are filed in the office of the City Recorder and the same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the
date on which this Chapter shall take effect, the provision thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the City. (1995 Code)
9-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the Heppner Fire Chief. (1995 Code)
9-2-3: DEFINITION:
Wherever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the Uniform Fire Code, it is the
City of Heppner. (1995 Code)
9-2-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS IS PROHIBITED:
The limits referred to in section 79.501 and 79.1001 of the Uniform Fire Code
and all future revisions thereof in which the storage of flammable or
combustible liquids is restricted are hereby established as follows:
All areas currently zoned Light Industrial M and the site east of Linden Way
currently occupied by the State as a highway maintenance shed. (1995 Code)
9-2-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND
BLASTING AGENTS IS TO BE PROHIBITED:
There shall be no storage of explosives or blasting agents within the City
limits. (1995 Code)
9-2-6: APPEALS:
Whenever the Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Code do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief to
the Heppner City Council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision
appealed. (1995 Code)
9-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Code or Standards
hereby adopted, or fails to comply therewith, shall be assessed a Class A
infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   The application of the above shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Nuisance Declared
9-3-3: Initial Action
9-3-4: Notice of Hearing
9-3-5: Hearing Procedure
9-3-6: Council Orders; Notice
9-3-7: Abatement by City
9-3-8: Assessment of Costs
9-3-9: Summary Abatement
9-3-10: Errors in Procedure
9-3-11: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following shall mean:
DANGEROUS BUILDING: A. A structure that, for lack of proper repairs or because
of age and dilapidated condition, or poorly installed electrical wiring,
chimney, gas connection or heating apparatus or for any other reason, is likely
to cause a fire and is situated or occupied in a manner that endangers other
property or human life.
   B.   A structure containing inflammable or explosive materials that are
likely to cause fire or danger to the safety of the building or to human life.
   C.   A structure in such filthy or unsanitary condition that it is likely to
cause the spread of contagious or infectious disease.
   D.   A structure in such weak, dilapidated or deteriorated condition that it
endangers persons or property because of the probability of partial or entire
collapse.
OWNER: Owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of real
property, as shown on the last available complete assessment roll in the office
of the County Assessor.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
(Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Every building found by the Council to be a dangerous building is declared to
be a public nuisance and may be abated according to the procedures specified in
this Chapter or by a suit for abatement brought by the City. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-3: INITIAL ACTION:
When the Chief of Police determines that a dangerous building exists in the
City, the official shall report it to the Council. The Council shall, within a
reasonable time, fix a time and place for a public hearing. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-4: NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Mailed Notice:
      1.   The City Recorder shall notify the owner and any occupants of the
building by certified or registered mail. The notice shall state:
         a.   That a hearing will be held concerning the nuisance character of
the property.
         b.   A description of the property and alleged nuisances.
         c.   The time and place of the hearing.
      2.   A copy of this notice shall be posted on the building.
   B.   Published and Posted Notices: At least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing date, the City shall publish a notice of the hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City or post notices in at least three (3)
public places in the City. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-5: HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Owner, Interested Parties to be Heard: At the hearing, the owner or
other interested parties shall have the right to be heard.
   B.   Inspection by Council: The Council may inspect the building and
consider the facts observed in determining whether the building is dangerous.
   C.   Determination of Dangerous Condition; Passage of Resolution:
      1.   If the Council determines that the building is dangerous, the
Council may, by resolution:
         a.   Order the building to be demolished; or
         b.   Order the building to be made safe and prescribe what must be
done to make it safe.
      2.   In the resolution, the Council may set a time, not less than ten
(10) days, within which the order must be obeyed. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-6: COUNCIL ORDERS; NOTICE:
Notice of the Council's determination and orders by the Council shall be sent
by certified or registered mail to the owner of the building. If the orders are
not obeyed, and the building is not made safe within the time specified by the
order, the Council may order the building demolished or made safe at the
expense of the owner of the property on which it is located. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-7: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If the Council orders are not complied with, the Council may specify the
demolition or work to be done and direct that it be undertaken by City
personnel and equipment or that bids be obtained according to applicable local
and State contracting laws and regulations. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-8: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   The City shall forward to the owner, by registered or certified mail, a
notice stating:
      1.   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative costs.
      2.   That the costs as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice.
      3.   That if the owner objects to the costs of the abatement as
indicated, a written notice of objection may be filed with the City Recorder
not more than ten (10) days from the date of the notice.
   B.   No sooner than thirty (30) days after the date of the notice of costs,
the Council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and make a decision
on the objections to the costs assessed.
   C.   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within thirty (30) days from
the date of the notice of costs or, if an objection was filed within ten (10)
days from the Council determination, an assessment of the costs, as stated or
as decided by the Council, shall be made by resolution and shall be entered in
the docket of City liens. When the entry is made, it shall constitute a lien on
the property from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
   D.   The lien shall bear interest at a rate set by the Council at the time
of assessment. The interest shall begin to run from the date of entry of the
lien in the lien docket.
   E.   Collection of the lien shall be in accordance with ORS 223.510 to
223.595. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-9: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
The procedures of this Chapter need not be followed if the condition of a
building is unmistakably dangerous and imminently endangers life or property.
In this instance, the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal, the Chief of Police or any
other City official authorized by the City Council may summarily abate the
nuisance. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-10: ERRORS IN PROCEDURE:
Failure to conform to the requirements of this Chapter that does not
substantially and adversely affect the legal right of a person does not
invalidate a proceeding under this Chapter. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87)
9-3-11: PENALTY:
A person who owns a dangerous building and who allows the building to remain
dangerous past the time established in the notice described in Section
9-3-6 of this Chapter may be assessed a Class A infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 470, 8-3-87; 1995 Code)
TITLE 10
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED
SECTION:
10-1-1: Authority
10-1-2: Plan Technical Report And Transportation System Plan
10-1-3: Plan Implementation Measures
10-1-4: Availability Of Plan
10-1-5: Plan Goals And Policies
10-1-6: Plan And Implementation Measure Review
10-1-7: Plan Amendment
10-1-1: AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 92, 197, 215, the Statewide
planning goals, and in coordination with Morrow County and other affected
governmental units, the City hereby adopts the City of Heppner Comprehensive
Plan including plan goals and policies as enumerated herein and the Plan Map
included as attachment A, attached to Ordinance 419 on file in the Office of
the City Recorder. (Ord. 419, 7-3-1978)
10-1-2: PLAN TECHNICAL REPORT AND TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN:
The technical report provides the background information, facts and
considerations upon which the City's Comprehensive Plan goals, policies and map
are based. In addition, the 2018 Heppner Transportation System Plan provides
technical information related to transportation and supersedes any information
related to transportation found in the technical report. The technical report
is not adopted as part of the plan but remains the supporting document that is
subject to revisions as new technical data becomes available. Volume 1 of the
Transportation System Plan is an adopted supporting plan of the Comprehensive
Plan. When new data indicates that the City's plan should be revised,
amendments shall be made as provided in section
10-1-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
10-1-3: PLAN IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES:
All plan implementation measures including, but not limited to, the City Zoning
Ordinance 1 , Subdivision Ordinance 2 , Flood Area Management Ordinance 3  and
Urban Growth Area Joint Management Agreement between the City and Morrow
County, shall be consistent with and subservient to the City Comprehensive
Plan. (Ord. 419, 7-3-1978; amd. Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this Code.
2 2. See title 12 of this Code.
3 3. See title 13 of this Code.
10-1-4: AVAILABILITY OF PLAN:
After the City Comprehensive Plan receives an acknowledgement of compliance
from the Oregon Land and Conservation and Development Commission, the
Comprehensive Plan and implementation measures shall be available for use and
inspection at the Heppner City Hall, Morrow County Public Library, Morrow
County Planning Department Office in Heppner, East Central Oregon Association
of Counties Office in Pendleton, and the Department of Land Conservation and
Development Office in Salem. (Ord. 419, 7-3-1978)
10-1-5: PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES:
The following statement of goals and policies provide a general long-range
basis for decision making relative to the future growth and development of the
City. The goals are patterned after and are in direct response to applicable
Oregon Statewide planning goals. The policy statements set forth a guide to
courses of action which are intended to carry out the goals of the plan. The
policy statements present a clear picture of the City's position on matters
pertaining to physical improvements and development.
      1.   Citizen Involvement:
Goal: To develop a citizen involvement program that ensures opportunity for
citizens to participate in all phases of the planning process.
It Shall be City Policy:
To conduct periodic community surveys to ascertain public opinion and collect
information; survey results should be distributed.
To encourage people to attend and participate in Planning Commission and City
Council meetings and hearings.
To establish advisory committees as necessary to study community problems and
make recommendations for their solution.
To distribute the draft Comprehensive Plan for public review and comment.
To make technical reports available for public inspection.
To distribute the adopted Comprehensive Plan to the public for the use as a
reference in making future land use decisions.
      2.   Land Use Planning:
Goal: To establish a land use planning process and policy framework as a basis
for all decisions and actions related to use of land and to assure an adequate
factual base for such decisions and actions.
It Shall be City Policy:
To prepare data inventories on natural resources, man-made structures and
utilities, population and economic characteristics, and the roles and
responsibilities of affected governmental units.
To identify lands suitable for development and areas where development should
be restricted.
To develop economic and population projections.
To determine the land requirements for projected economic development and
population growth.
To determine the public facilities and services required to accommodate
existing unmet public needs and expected economic and population growth.
To prepare a Comprehensive Plan and establish an urban growth boundary based on
the above information, citizen input, coordination with affected governmental
units and the goals and objectives adopted herein.
To establish policies for the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan.
To revise the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances and develop a capital
improvement program based on the Comprehensive Plan.
To establish a policy for revising or amending the Comprehensive Plan.
      3.   Agricultural Lands:
Goal: To preserve and maintain agricultural lands.
Objectives:
To identify agricultural lands which should be preserved and protected from
urban development.
To encourage residential, commercial and industrial development within the City
limits and urban growth boundary.
To encourage the Morrow County Planning Commission and County Court to restrict
residential, commercial and industrial development outside the urban growth
boundary.
Land zoned agriculturally shall remain so until such time as the property owner
requests a zone change. At that time, the zone change shall comply with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   Open Spaces, Scenic and Historical Areas and Natural Resources:
Goal: To conserve open space and protect natural and scenic resources.
Objectives:
To identify open spaces, scenic and historical areas and natural resources
which should be preserved from urban development.
To preserve open space through public acquisition of suitable land and by
encouraging provisions for open space in private developments.
To examine any publicly-owned lands, including street rights of way for their
potential open space use before their disposition.
To encourage multiple use of open space land; provided, that the uses are
compatible.
To protect archaeological and historic sites, structures and artifacts.
To conserve the area's natural resources.
      5.   Air, Water and Land Resources Quality:
Goal: To maintain and improve the quality of the air, water and land resources
of Heppner.
It Shall be City Policy:
To limit all discharges from existing and future development to meet applicable
State or Federal environmental quality statutes, rules and standards.
To discourage industries which would have a significant detrimental effect on
the environmental resources of the area.
      6.   Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards:
Goal: To protect life and property from natural disasters and hazards.
It Shall be City Policy:
To administer areas of flood hazard according to the City Flood Area Management
Ordinance, to be adopted by the City upon completion of the final flood plain
study.
To require site specific information clearly determining the degree of hazard
present from applicants who seek approval to develop residential, commercial or
industrial uses within known areas of natural disasters and hazards. (Ord. 419,
7-3-78)
To assure that adequate landfill facilities are available for its residents.
(Ord. 466, 5-4-87)
      7.   Recreational Needs:
Goal: To satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of Heppner and
visitors.
It Shall be City Policy:
To develop public meeting places and indoor recreational facilities for all age
groups.
To develop neighborhood parks and outdoor recreational facilities in order to
meet the needs of residents and visitors as the community grows.
To encourage the dedication of park land as a part of the review and approval
of large subdivisions and planned unit developments.
To plan community recreation facilities in conjunction with existing and
planned school facilities so that they complement each other in function.
To encourage tourist commercial uses such as motels, restaurants, gas stations,
gift shops and other noise and traffic generators to cluster in or adjacent to
other commercial areas.
      8.   Economic Development:
Goal: To diversify and improve the economy of Heppner.
It Shall be City Policy:
To protect those areas suitable for industrial development from encroachment of
incompatible land uses.
To encourage diversified, nonpolluting industrial development.
To minimize high noise levels, heavy traffic volumes and other undesirable
effects of heavy commercial and industrial developments.
To encourage the expansion of job opportunities and reduce unemployment, reduce
out-migration of youth and accommodate the growth of the local labor force.
To maximize the utilization of local manpower as job opportunities increase.
To cooperate with and encourage the use of local manpower training agencies and
programs to provide critically needed skills or education to train or retrain
the unemployed, underemployed and economically disadvantaged of the area.
To cluster commercial uses intended to meet the business needs of area
residents and highway travelers only in designated areas to prevent the
undesirable effects of a strip commercial area.
      9.   Housing:
Goal: To increase the supply of housing to allow for population growth and to
provide for the housing needs of the citizens of Heppner.
Objectives:
To encourage a moderate rate of growth and a mixed population of varying age
groups, incomes and lifestyles. (Ord. 419, 7-3-1978)
To encourage residential development which provides prospective buyers with a
variety of residential lot sizes, a diversity of housing types, including
manufactured homes and multi-family housing, and a range in prices. (Ord. 419,
7-3-1978; amd. Ord. 517-96, 10-14-1996)
      10.   Public Facilities And Services:
Goal: To plan and develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of public
facilities and services to serve as a framework for urban development.
Objectives:
To develop, maintain, update and expand police and fire services, streets and
sidewalks, water and sewer systems and storm drains, as necessary, to provide
adequate facilities and services to the community.
It Shall Be City Policy:
To take into consideration the eventual need to serve higher elevation lands
with water and sewer facilities in the design of new facilities or improvement
of existing systems.
To encourage underground installation of utilities in all new developments and
as major improvements are made to areas with aboveground utilities except where
severe cost differential is proven.
To cooperate with agencies involved in providing and coordinating social
services and consider pooling of City resources with social agencies to provide
needed services within the community.
To cooperate in the development of programs for senior citizens.
To encourage the development of health services.
To work with Morrow County to ensure adequate provision for and control of
solid waste disposal sites.
To plan public facilities, services and utilities to be maintained by the City
to meet expected demand.
To provide City water and sewer services only after the area to be served has
been annexed to the City or at the discretion of the City Council. (Ord. 419,
7-3-1978)
      11.   Transportation: Goals and policies associated with transportation
planning are found in the City of Heppner Transportation System Plan, adopted
October, 2018. The Transportation System Plan is a supporting, ancillary
document to the Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
      12.   Energy Conservation:
Goal: To conserve energy and develop and use renewable energy resources.
Objectives:
To consider revising the Zoning Ordinance to protect sun rights.
To encourage the design of streets, buildings and landscaping in subdivisions
to allow for utilization of solar energy.
To design the extension and upgrading of water and sewer lines and facilities
to minimize energy use.
      13.   Urbanization:
Goal: To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to urban
land use.
Objectives:
To establish an urban growth boundary to identify and separate urbanizable land
from rural land.
To develop a cooperative process between Heppner and Morrow County for the
establishment and change of the urban growth industry.
To encourage development to occur within a relatively compact urban area with
controlled outward growth.
To consider only those areas that are within the urban growth boundary for
annexation to the City.
To establish a policy for revising or amending the urban growth boundary.
To work with Morrow County to develop policies and regulations to manage land
development within the urban growth boundary and outside City limits. (Ord.
419, 7-3-1978)
To establish a Downtown District Zone that protects and maintains the historic
"Main Street" character of downtown Heppner through dimensional standards, site
plan requirements and architectural guidelines. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
10-1-6: PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION MEASURE REVIEW:
   A.   The City Comprehensive Plan and implementation measures shall be
reviewed at least annually to determine conformity with changes in:
      1.   The Oregon Revised Statutes;
      2.   Oregon case law;
      3.   Oregon Statewide planning goals;
      4.   Requirements of the City;
      5.   Needs of residents or landowners within the City and urban growth
area; and
      6.   Concerns of Morrow County and other affected governmental units.
   B.   If the City Comprehensive Plan, implementation measures or both fail to
conform to any or all of the above mentioned criteria, the nonconforming
document(s) shall be amended as soon as practicable. (Ord. 419, 7-3-1978)
10-1-7: PLAN AMENDMENT:
After the Planning Commission and City Council determine that proposed
amendments should be considered, amendment of the Comprehensive Plan shall be
based on the following procedures and requirements:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall set a public hearing date and give notice
thereof through a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing.
   B.   Copies of proposed amendments shall be made available for review at
least ten (10) days prior to the Planning Commission hearing.
   C.   Within ten (10) days after the close of the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and recommend to the City
Council adoption, revision or denial of the proposed amendments.
   D.   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission recommendation, the City
Council shall set a public hearing date and give notice thereof through a
newspaper of general circulation in the City at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing.
   E.   Copies of proposed amendments and the Planning Commission
recommendation shall be made available for review at least ten (10) days prior
to the City Council hearing.
   F.   Within ten (10) days after the close of the public hearing, the City
Council shall make findings of fact and adopt, adopt with changes or deny the
proposed amendments. Adoption of plan amendments is effective upon:
      1.   City adoption in the case of amendments of the plan map for the area
within the City limits;
      2.   County adoption in the case of amendment of plan policies or the
plan map for the urban growth area; or
      3.   County adoption and LCDC approval in the case of amendment of plan
goals or urban growth boundary location.
   G.   Copies of all plan amendments shall be sent to Morrow County and the
Land Conservation Development Commission (LCDC) within ten (10) days after
adoption by the City. (Ord. 419, 7-3-1978)
TITLE 11
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purposes
11-1-3: Scope
11-1-4: Zoning Of Areas To Be Annexed
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title, together with the zoning map attached to ordinance 428 as appendix
A, on file in the office of the city recorder, shall be known as the ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HEPPNER, OREGON. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-1-2: PURPOSES:
This title is enacted for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety
and welfare; to encourage the most appropriate use of property within the city;
to stabilize and protect the value of property; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent overcrowding; to lessen traffic congestion; to facilitate
adequate and economical provisions for public improvements, all to implement
the comprehensive plan of the city 1 ; to provide a method of administration
and to prescribe penalties for violations of the provisions herein. (Ord. 542,
8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-3: SCOPE:
No structure or lot shall hereinafter be used or occupied, and no structure or
part thereof shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or
otherwise altered except as permitted by this title. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-1-4: ZONING OF AREAS TO BE ANNEXED:
Prior to the annexation of any land to the city, the planning commission shall
determine, by reference to the comprehensive plan, the appropriate zoning for
the property to be annexed. The zoning of the property to be annexed shall be
in accordance with the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESS: A means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian entrance or exit
to a property.
   A.   Classification: A ranking system for roadways used to determine the
appropriate degree of access management. Factors considered include functional
classification, the city's adopted plan for the roadway, subdivision of
abutting properties, and existing level of access control.
   B.   Conditional: An access granted to a parcel that will be relocated or
eliminated at the time alternative access is provided.
   C.   Cross: A service drive, or connection, between two (2) or more
contiguous parcels or sites providing motor vehicle and pedestrian access from
one site to the other so that persons are not forced to use the public street
system to travel between them.
   D.   Joint Or Shared: A driveway connecting two (2) or more contiguous sites
to the public street system.
   E.   Management: The process of providing and managing access to land
development while preserving the regional flow of traffic in terms of safety,
capacity, and speed.
   F.   Spacing: The distance between motor vehicle access locations, measured
from the closest edge of pavement (or gravel surface) of the first access to
the closest edge of pavement (or gravel surface) of the second access along the
edge of the public right-of-way.
   G.   Temporary: Provision of direct access to the controlled access facility
until such time as adjacent properties develop, in accordance with a joint
access agreement or frontage road plan.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A second dwelling unit created on a lot with a house,
attached house, or manufactured home. The second unit is created auxiliary to,
and is always smaller than the house, attached house, or manufactured home. The
unit includes its own independent living facilities including provision for
sleeping, cooking, and sanitation, and is designed for residential occupancy by
one or more people, independent of the primary dwelling unit. The unit may have
a separate exterior entrance or an entrance to an internal common area
accessible to the outside.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure incidental and subordinate to
the main use of the property, located on the same lot with the main use.
Example - home occupation.
ACCESSWAY: A walkway that provides pedestrian and bicycle passage either
between streets or from a street to a building or other destination such as a
school, park, or community center. Accessways generally include a walkway and
additional land on either side of the walkway, often in the form of an easement
or right-of-way, to provide clearance and separation between the walkway and
adjacent uses. Accessways through parking lots are generally physically
separated from adjacent vehicle parking or parallel to vehicle traffic by curbs
or similar devices and include landscaping, trees, and lighting. Where
accessways cross driveways, they are generally raised, paved, or marked in a
manner that provides convenient access for pedestrians.
ALLEY: A street through a block primarily for vehicular access to the back or
side of property otherwise abutting on another street.
BICYCLE: A vehicle designed to carry at least one person, with fourteen inch
(14") diameter or larger wheels, and is propelled solely by human power.
BICYCLE FACILITIES: A general term denoting improvements and provisions made to
accommodate or encourage bicycling, including parking facilities on all
bikeways.
BIKEWAY: Any road, path, or way that is in some manner specifically open to
bicycle travel, regardless of whether such facilities are designed for the
exclusive use of bicycles or are shared with other transportation modes.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof intended for the support, shelter or
enclosure of any persons, animals, property or business activity.
CITY: The City of Heppner, Oregon.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Heppner, Oregon.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan of the City of Heppner, Oregon.
CORNER CLEARANCE: The distance from an intersection of a public or private road
to the nearest access connection, measured from the closest edge of the
pavement of the intersecting road to the closest edge of the pavement of the
connection along the traveled way.
COTTAGE CLUSTER: Small lot detached single-family dwellings arranged in groups,
with a courtyard(s) containing shared green space and a public access sidewalk
easement.
CROSSOVER EASEMENT: A legal agreement that allows for access to one parcel
through the access of another and/or a grant of one or more property rights by
a property owner to or for use of the public or another person or entity.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building containing two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed for occupancy by one family,
containing complete housekeeping facilities. For the purposes of this title,
"dwelling unit" does not include manufactured homes or recreational vehicles.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by marriage, blood,
legal adoption or guardianship, and not more than two (2) unrelated persons
living together in one dwelling unit; or not more than five (5) unrelated
persons living together in one dwelling unit.
FARMING, FARM USE: The use of land for raising and harvesting crops or for the
feeding, breeding and management of livestock or for dairying or for any other
agricultural or horticultural use or any combination thereof, including
disposal of such products by marketing or otherwise. Farming also includes the
use and construction of buildings customarily used in the above activities.
FLAG LOT: A parcel which is created through a partition where the major portion
of the lot does not front on a public street and obtains access from a public
street by means of a narrow (less than 50 foot wide) strip of land. The pole
(access strip) of the flag lot is not counted in determining lot dimensions for
zoning permits.
FLOOR AREA: The total area of all floors of a building as measured to the
outside surfaces of exterior walls, including halls, stairways, elevator
shafts, attached porches and balconies, excluding open courtyards and vent
shafts.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A public or private drive which generally parallels a public
street between the right of way and the front building setback line. The
frontage road provides access to private properties while separating them from
the arterial street.
FUNCTIONAL AREA (INTERSECTION): That area beyond the physical intersection of
two (2) roads that comprises decision and maneuver distance, plus any required
vehicle storage length.
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION: A system used to group public roadways into classes
according to their purpose in moving vehicles and providing access.
GRADE: The average elevation of the finished ground elevation at the centers of
all walls of a building; except, that if a wall is parallel to and within five
feet (5') of a sidewalk, the sidewalk elevation nearest the center of the wall
shall constitute the ground elevation.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof, to the deck line on a mansard roof, to the mean
point between the eaves and highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
HOME OCCUPATION: Accessory use of a dwelling, employing only the inhabitants of
the dwelling, wherein the residential character of the dwelling is maintained.
The occupation must be lawful and must be conducted in such manner that storage
or display of merchandise, equipment or machinery is not visible from off the
property on which the occupation is located, and the occupation may not
infringe upon the right of neighboring residents to enjoy the peaceful
occupation of their dwellings.
LOT: A parcel of land having sufficient area to meet the minimum lot
requirements in the zone in which it is located and having its principal
frontage on, or permanent access to, a street.
LOT AREA: The total area within the boundary lines of the lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets, other than
alleys, where the angle of intersection of the streets does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135o).
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance from the midpoint of the front lot line to
the midpoint of the rear lot line.
LOT LINE: The boundary line of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the street other than an
alley or the nearest line to the public street. In the case of a corner lot,
the shortest lot line along a street other than an alley.
LOT LINE, REAR: Any boundary line opposite and most distant from a front lot
line and not intersecting a front lot line, except in the case of a corner lot.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line not a front or a rear lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines, ordinarily
measured parallel to the front lot line.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A. A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for residential occupancy, and that was constructed in accordance with federal
manufactured housing, construction and safety standards in effect at the time
of construction. Only manufactured homes built after 1988 can be sited in the
city.
   B.   A manufactured home meeting the conditions of subsection
11-3-1A of this title can be placed in any zone which allows a single-family
dwelling as an allowed or conditional use under the same conditions as a
single-family dwelling except when Oregon law and restrictive covenants provide
otherwise.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A place where four (4) or more manufactured homes are
located within five hundred feet (500') of one another on a lot, tract or
parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to
rent space or keep space for rent to any person for a charge or fee paid or to
be paid for the rental or use of facilities or to offer space free in
connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
NEIGHBORHOOD ACTIVITY CENTER: An attractor or destination for residents of
surrounding residential areas. Includes, but is not limited to, existing or
proposed schools, parks, theaters, shopping facilities, employment areas.
NONCONFORMING ACCESS FEATURES: Features of the property access that existed
prior to the date of ordinance adopting and do not conform with the
requirements of this title.
NURSING HOME AND HEALTHCARE FACILITIES: Facilities for the care of persons who
require medical service or medical supervision. The definition of these
facilities shall include assisted living facilities.
OFF STREET PARKING: An area reserved for temporary or long term storage of a
motor vehicle or bicycle.
OWNER: The owner of record of real property as shown in the records of the
county assessor, or the registered agent of such owner.
PARCEL: A division of land comprised of one or more lots in contiguous
ownership.
PARKING SPACE: That area reserved for parking of a motor vehicle or bicycle and
which shall have sufficient space allocated according to current design
standards for the use, and shall be accessible from a public street.
PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES: A general term denoting improvements and provisions made
to accommodate or encourage walking, including sidewalks, accessways,
crosswalks, ramps, paths and trails.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Heppner, Oregon.
PLAT: An exact and detailed map of the subdivision of land.
PRIVATE ROAD: Any roadway for vehicular travel which is privately owned and
maintained and which provides the principal means of access to abutting
properties.
PUBLIC ROAD: A road under the jurisdiction of a public body that provides the
principal means of access to an abutting property.
PUBLIC USE: Building or use such as a city hall, fire station, city shop,
school, community center, park and similar uses.
REASONABLE ACCESS: The minimum number of access connections, direct or
indirect, necessary to provide safe access to and from the roadway, as
consistent with the purpose and intent of this title and any applicable plans
and policies of the city/county.
REASONABLY DIRECT: A route that does not deviate unnecessarily from a straight
line or a route that does not involve a significant out of direction travel for
likely users.
RECREATION VEHICLE: A vacation trailer or other vehicular or portable unit
which is either self-propelled or towed or is carried by a motor vehicle, which
is intended for human occupancy and is designed for vacation or recreation
purposes but not residential use.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A lot which is operated on a fee or other basis as a
place for the parking of occupied recreation vehicles.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land reserved or used for a highway, street, alley, walkway,
drainage facility, or other public purpose.
SAFE AND CONVENIENT: Bicycle and pedestrian routes that are reasonably direct
and reasonably free of hazards, where the optimum travel distance is under one-
half (1/2) mile for pedestrians, and under three (3) miles for bicyclists.
SEMIPUBLIC USE: Building or use such as a church, hospital, sanitarium, rest
home, nursing or convalescent home, utility structure and similar uses.
SIGHT OBSCURING FENCE: A solid fence or a slat fence at least six feet (6') in
height that completely obscures vision.
SIGHT OBSCURING PLANTING: A dense perennial evergreen planting with sufficient
foliage to obscure vision and which will reach an average height of at least
six feet (6').
SIGN: An identification, description or device which directs attention to a
product, place, activity, person, institution or business and which is affixed
to or represented upon a building, structure or land. Each display surface of a
sign structure shall be considered a separate sign.
STREET: A public right of way for the use of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
STUB-OUT (STUB STREET): A portion of a street or cross access drive used as an
extension to an abutting property that may be developed in the future.
URBAN GROWTH AREA: Land between the incorporated limits of the city and the
urban growth boundary.
URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY: The boundary designated in the city's comprehensive plan
which identifies and separates urban and potentially urban land from rural
land.
UTILITY OUTBUILDING: A structure located upon the same lot as the main use,
which square footage shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the square footage of
the lot, which dimensions shall not exceed a twelve foot (12') length and a
twelve foot (12') width, and which shall not have a ridge higher than twelve
feet (12') with a maximum eight foot (8') high wall, designed for storage of
garden or other tools or articles incidental to a residential or other
permitted use of a property and not designed for habitation.
WALKWAY: A hard surfaced area intended and suitable for pedestrians, including
sidewalks and the surfaced portions of accessways.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground upward
except as otherwise provided in this title. Unless otherwise provided in this
title, "paving" is defined as an obstruction.
YARD, FRONT: That yard lying between the front lot line and the front of the
building.
YARD, REAR: That yard lying between the rear lot line and the rear of the
building.
YARD, SIDE: That yard lying between the front and rear yards, between the
building and the side lot line. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003; amd. Ord. 582-18, 10-8-
2018)
CHAPTER 2
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Classification Of Zones
11-2-2: Zone Boundaries
11-2-3: Location Of Zones
11-2-1: CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this title, the following zones are hereby established:
 
Zone             Designation      
Limited residential           R-1
General residential           R-2
Residential                   R-3
Central commercial            C
Downtown district             DD
Light industrial              M
 
(Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-2-2: ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Unless otherwise provided in this title, zone boundaries are section lines,
subdivision lines, lot lines, centerlines of streets or railroad rights of way
or such lines extended. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-2-3: LOCATION OF ZONES:
A zoning map showing boundaries of the zones as hereby established shall be
adopted and made part of this title and attached as appendix A to ordinance 428
on file in the office of the city recorder. Said map and all notations,
references or amendments thereto shall be and remain on file with the city
recorder. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 3
USE ZONES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Limited Residential Zone, R-1
11-3-2: Cemetery Hill Zone, R-1
11-3-3: General Residential Zone, R-2
11-3-4: Residential Zone, R-3
11-3-5: Central Commercial Zone, C
11-3-6: Downtown District, DD
11-3-7: Light Industrial Zone, M
11-3-8: Historic Sites, Structures And Objects
11-3-1: LIMITED RESIDENTIAL ZONE, R-1:
   A.   Permitted Uses In R-1 Zone: In an R-1 zone the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted outright:
Manufactured homes meeting the following conditions:
      1.   Having more than one thousand three hundred (1,300) square feet of
occupied space in a double section or larger multisection unit and built after
1991;
      2.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
concrete or concrete block foundation meeting Oregon building code requirements
and enclosed at the perimeter such that no more than twelve inches (12") of the
enclosing material is exposed above grade. Where the building site has a sloped
grade, no more than twelve inches (12") of the enclosing material shall be
exposed on the uphill side of the home. If the manufactured home is placed on a
basement, the twelve inch (12") limitation will not apply.
      3.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      4.   Have utilities connected in accordance with Oregon building codes
agency requirements and manufacturer's specifications;
      5.   Bear an insignia of compliance with the manufactured housing
construction and safety standards code;
      6.   Have shake, shingle, composition or tile roofing materials similar
in appearance to the most predominant type in the area. The pitch shall be a
minimum of 3/12;
      7.   Siding materials or trim shall be similar in appearance or
complementary to the other homes in the area including the type, color and
horizontal or vertical placement of materials;
      8.   If attached garage or attached carport is built, it shall be of like
materials and color of the dwelling;
      9.   The manufactured home shall be certified by the manufacturer to have
an exterior or thermal envelope meeting performance standards which reduce heat
loss levels equivalent to the performance standards required of single-family
dwellings constructed under the state building code as currently enacted;
      10.   Meet all other applicable standards for manufactured home
installation contained in this title; and
      11.   Meet all other applicable state and local statutes and regulations
for the siting of the manufactured home on the site.
Residential homes as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 197.660(2).
Single-family dwelling.
   B.   Conditional Uses Permitted In R-1 Zone: In an R-1 zone the following
uses and their accessory uses are permitted when authorized in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title:
Beauty and hair care salon.
Forest service offices.
Hospital.
Justice court and county juvenile department offices.
Nursing home and healthcare facilities.
Public or semipublic use.
Two-family dwelling.
   C.   Dimensional Standards In R-1 Zone: In an R-1 zone the following
dimensional standards shall apply:
      1.   The front yard shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20').
      2.   Each side yard shall be a minimum of ten feet (10'), except that on
a corner lot the side yard on the street side shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20').
      3.   The rear yard shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20').
      4.   A lot area shall be a minimum of seven thousand (7,000) square feet
for each separate outright or conditional use. For a two-family dwelling there
shall be at least eight thousand (8,000) square feet of lot area. There shall
not be more than one structure or use (except an accessory use structure) for
any use unless minimum area requirements are met for each use.
      5.   Building height shall be a maximum of thirty five feet (35').
      6.   The minimum street frontage shall be fifty feet (50') except on a
cul-de-sac where the minimum shall be thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-3-2: CEMETERY HILL ZONE, R-1:
The cemetery hill R-1 zone is designated a special R-1 zone. This zone, as
delineated on the city zoning map, is bounded on the north by Hill Street and
on the south by Heppner cemetery. A church is allowed as a conditional use in
that zone when authorized in accordance with chapter 5 of this title. In all
other respects, this special R-1 zone is exactly the same as in the R-1 zone
set forth in section
11-3-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-3-3: GENERAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE, R-2:
   A.   Permitted Uses In R-2 Zone: In an R-2 zone the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted outright:
Manufactured homes meeting the following conditions:
      1.   Having more than nine hundred sixty (960) square feet of occupied
space in a double section or larger multisection unit and built after 1988;
      2.   The manufactured home shall have a continuous skirting of concrete,
concrete block, concrete board or equivalent material meeting Oregon building
code requirements and enclosed at the perimeter such that no more than twelve
inches (12") of the enclosing material is exposed above grade. Where the
building site has a sloped grade, no more than twelve inches (12") of the
enclosing material shall be exposed on the uphill side. If the manufactured
home is placed on a basement, the twelve inch (12") limitation will not apply.
      3.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      4.   Have utilities connected in accordance with Oregon building codes
agency requirements and manufacturer's specifications;
      5.   Bear an insignia of compliance with the manufactured housing
construction and safety standards code;
      6.   Have shake, shingle, composition or tile roofing materials similar
in appearance to the most predominant type in the area. The pitch shall be a
minimum of 3/12;
      7.   Siding materials or trim shall be similar in appearance or
complementary to the other homes in the area including the type, color and
horizontal or vertical placement of materials;
      8.   If attached garage or attached carport is built, it shall be of like
materials and color of the dwelling;
      9.   The manufactured home shall be certified by the manufacturer to have
an exterior or thermal envelope meeting performance standards which reduce heat
loss levels equivalent to the performance standards required of single-family
dwellings constructed under the State Building Code as currently enacted;
      10.   Meet all other applicable standards for manufactured home
installation contained in this title; and
      11.   Meet all other applicable State and local Statutes and regulations
for the siting of the manufactured home on the site.
Single-family dwelling.
Two-family dwelling. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
   B.   Conditional Uses Permitted In R-2 Zone: In an R-2 Zone the following
uses and their accessory uses are permitted when authorized in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title:
Beauty and hair care salon.
Boarding house.
Food catering business with no on site sales, when the involved lot is directly
adjacent to a Downtown District Zone.
Multi-family dwelling.
Parks and recreation area.
Public or semipublic use, including church, school, library, hospital and
healthcare facilities.
Single section manufactured home meeting the manufactured home requirements of
subsection A of this section (except subsection 1 of the manufactured home use
[the minimum size requirements] and the minimum roof pitch requirement of
subsection 6). There is no minimum pitch requirement for a single wide home.
The single wide manufactured home must have more than eight hundred forty (840)
square feet of occupied space and be built after 1988. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003;
amd. Ord. 555-05, 6-11-2005)
   C.   Dimensional Standards In R-2 Zone: In an R-2 Zone the dimensional
standards of an R-1 Zone shall apply except as follows: 1) the lot area shall
be a minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet; 2) for two-family dwellings,
there shall be at least six thousand (6,000) square feet; and 3) for multi-
family dwellings and cluster developments, there shall be at least seven
thousand (7,000) square feet plus at least one thousand (1,000) square feet
more for each dwelling unit over three (3). Developments with more than one
structure (other than an accessory use structure or an accessory dwelling unit)
are subject to section
11-11-4, "Cluster Development Provisions", of this title. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-
2018)
11-3-4: RESIDENTIAL ZONE, R-3:
   A.   Permitted Uses In R-3 Zone: In an R-3 Zone the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted outright:
Manufactured home park.
Manufactured homes meeting the following conditions:
      1.   Having more than eight hundred forty (840) square feet of occupied
space in a single, double or larger multisection unit and built after 1988;
      2.   Unless the foundation is continuous, the unit shall have a
continuous skirting of nondecaying, noncorroding material extending at least
six inches (6") into the ground or extending to an impervious surface. The
skirting or continuous foundation shall have openings which shall be secured
against the entry of animals under the home;
      3.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      4.   Have utilities connected in accordance with Oregon Building Codes
Agency requirements and manufacturer's specifications;
      5.   Bear an insignia of compliance with the Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code;
      6.   Have shake, shingle, composition or tile roofing materials similar
in appearance to the most predominant type in the area. The pitch shall be a
minimum of three to twelve (3/12) for double and multisectional units. There is
no minimum pitch for a single wide manufactured home;
      7.   Siding materials or trim shall be similar in appearance or
complementary to the other homes in the area including the type, color and
horizontal or vertical placement of materials;
      8.   If attached garage or attached carport is built, it shall be of like
materials and color of the dwelling;
      9.   The manufactured home shall be certified by the manufacturer to have
an exterior or thermal envelope meeting performance standards which reduce heat
loss levels equivalent to the performance standards required of single-family
dwellings constructed under the state building code as currently enacted;
      10.   Meet all other applicable standards for manufactured home
installation contained in this title; and
      11.   Meet all other applicable state and local statutes and regulations
for the siting of the manufactured home on the site.
Multi-family dwelling.
Single-family dwelling.
Two-family dwelling.
   B.   Conditional Uses Permitted In R-3 Zone: In an R-3 zone the following
uses and their accessory uses are permitted when authorized in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title:
Beauty and hair care salon.
Eating or drinking establishment.
Farming, not including intensive livestock or poultry operations such as
commercial feedlot or poultry plant.
Hotel and motel.
Laundromat.
Neighborhood commercial-retail sales establishment.
Public or semipublic use.
Veterinary clinic.
   C.   Dimensional Standards In R-3 Zone: In an R-3 zone the dimensional
standards of an R-2 zone shall apply. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-3-5: CENTRAL COMMERCIAL ZONE, C:
   A.   Permitted Uses In C Zone: In a C zone the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted outright:
Amusement establishment.
Eating or drinking establishment.
Financial institution.
Hospital, nursing home and healthcare facility.
Hotel or motel.
Meeting hall or club.
Office.
Plant nursery.
Professional services of all types.
Public or semipublic use.
Repair or maintenance establishment except automobile, truck tractor, tractor
and farm implement repair.
Residential facility as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 197.660(1).
Retail or wholesale trade establishment.
   B.   Conditional Uses Permitted In C Zone: In a C zone the following uses
and their accessory uses are permitted when authorized in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title:
Manufactured homes meeting the following conditions:
      1.   Having more than eight hundred forty (840) square feet of occupied
space in a single, double or larger multisectional unit and built after 1988;
      2.   Unless the foundation is continuous, the unit shall have a
continuous skirting of nondecaying, noncorroding material extending at least
six inches (6") into the ground or extending to an impervious surface. The
skirting or continuous foundation shall have openings which shall be secured
against the entry of animals under the home;
      3.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      4.   Have utilities connected in accordance with Oregon building codes
agency requirements and manufacturer's specifications;
      5.   Bear an insignia of compliance with the manufactured housing
construction and safety standards code;
      6.   Have shake, shingle, composition or tile roofing materials similar
in appearance to the most predominant type in the area. The pitch shall be a
minimum of 3/12 for double and multisectional units. There is no minimum pitch
for a single wide manufactured home;
      7.   Siding materials or trim shall be similar in appearance or
complementary to the other homes in the area including the type, color and
horizontal or vertical placement of materials;
      8.   If attached garage or attached carport is built, it shall be of like
materials and color of the dwelling;
      9.   The manufactured home shall be certified by the manufacturer to have
an exterior or thermal envelope meeting performance standards which reduce heat
loss levels equivalent to the performance standards required of single-family
dwellings constructed under the state building code as currently enacted;
      10.   Meet all other applicable standards for manufactured home
installation contained in this title; and
      11.   Meet all other applicable state and local statutes and regulations
for the siting of the manufactured home on the site.
Multi-family dwelling.
Recreational vehicle park.
Repair or maintenance for truck, automobile and farm implements.
Residential homes as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 197.660(2).
Single-family dwelling.
Two-family dwelling.
   C.   Dimensional Standards In C Zone: In a C zone the following dimensional
standards shall apply:
      1.   In a C zone the dimensional standards of the R-1 zone apply to a lot
or structure whose primary use is for a dwelling.
      2.   The lot area shall be adequate to meet the needs of the
establishment, the requirements of the Oregon state structural specialty code
and fire and life safety code, the requirements of the city's fire zones and
shall provide adequate space for parking and loading pursuant to chapter 9 of
this title. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-3-6: DOWNTOWN DISTRICT, DD: (Includes all commercially zoned property on the
west side of Willow creek):
The goal of the downtown district is to strengthen the downtown as the "heart"
of the community and as the logical place for people to gather and create a
business center. The intent of the district is to support this goal through
elements of design and appropriate mixed use development. This section provides
standards for the orderly improvement of the downtown district based on the
following principles:
Efficient use of land and urban services;
A mixture of land uses to encourage walking as an alternative to driving, and
provide more employment and housing options;
The downtown district provides both formal and informal community gathering
places;
A distinct storefront character identifies the downtown district;
The downtown district is connected to neighborhoods and other employment areas;
The downtown district provides visitor accommodations and tourism amenities;
Design guidelines maintain and enhance the city's historic architecture.
   A.   Permitted Uses In DD Zone: In a DD zone the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted outright:
Eating and drinking establishment.
Entertainment establishment.
Hotel, motel.
Meeting hall, club.
Office, financial services, professional services of all types.
Plant nursery.
Public, semipublic use.
Repair or maintenance establishment (except for automobiles, truck, tractor,
and farm implement repair).
Retail or wholesale trade establishment.
   B.   Conditional Uses Permitted In DD Zone: In a DD zone the following uses
and their accessory uses are permitted when authorized in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title:
Light manufacture when in conjunction with permitted retail or service use (not
exceeding 50 percent of gross floor area).
Multi-family dwelling.
RV park.
Repair and maintenance for truck, auto and farm     implements.
Single-family dwelling.
Temporary construction trailers (may be of metal construction) only during
construction project.
Two-family dwelling.
   C.   Dimensional Standards In DD Zone:
      1.   The lot area shall be adequate to meet the needs of the
establishment, the requirements of the Oregon state structural specialty code,
and fire and life safety code, the requirements of the city's fire zones and
shall provide adequate space for parking and loading pursuant to chapter 9 of
this title.
      2.   Setbacks for front, side and rear yards.
         a.   There are no required front, side or rear yard setbacks.
         b.   Any front yard setback must be approved by the planning
   commission.
      3.   Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') from the
base of the structure to the eave.
   D.   Building Orientation: All development within the DD zone shall be
oriented to the street. The building orientation standard is met when all of
the following criteria are met:
      1.   The minimum and maximum setback standards in this title are met.
      2.   Buildings have their primary entrance(s) oriented to (facing) the
street. Building entrances may include entrances to individual units, lobby
entrances, entrances oriented to pedestrian plazas, or breezeway/courtyard
entrances.
         a.   Planning commission may approve a building placing its entrance
facing a side yard when a direct pedestrian walkway, not to exceed twenty feet
(20') in length is provided between the building entrance and the street right
of way.
         b.   The planning commission may increase the distance to the building
entrance when usable public space with pedestrian amenities (e.g., extra wide
sidewalk, plaza, pocket park, outdoor dining area or town square with seating)
is provided between building and the front property line.
      3.   Off street parking, driveways or other vehicular circulation shall
not be placed between a building and the street. Parking, driveways and other
vehicle areas shall be prohibited between buildings and street.
   E.   Architectural Guidelines:
      1.   Applicability: The downtown district architectural guideline
standards are intended to provide detailed, human scale design, while affording
flexibility to use a variety of building styles. This section applies to all of
the following types of buildings:
         a.   Three (3) or more single-family attached townhomes on their own
lots;
         b.   Duplex and triplex developments with more than one building;
         c.   Multi-family housing;
         d.   Public and institutional buildings;
         e.   Commercial and mixed use buildings.
      2.   Storefront Design: All buildings shall contribute to the storefront
character and visual relatedness of the downtown district buildings. This
criterion is met by providing all of the architectural features listed below:
         a.   Corner building entrances on corner lots are encouraged but not
required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/402250a5809b2b3f4c92c70e31b5e7510b0ac9a0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1029.gif]
 
         b.   Regularly spaced and similar shaped windows with window hoods or
trim (all building stories).
         c.   Large display windows on the ground floor (nonresidential uses
only). Display windows shall be articulated with architectural features.
         d.   Decorative cornice at top of building (flat roof); or eaves
provided with pitched roof.
   F.   Pedestrian Amenities: Pedestrian amenities are intended to complement
the building orientation standards. Pedestrian amenities serve as informal
gathering places for socializing, resting and enjoyment of the city's downtown
district, and contribute to a walkable district. The planning commission shall
determine if the pedestrian amenity may be provided within a public right of
way, the dimensions, number, and placement of the pedestrian amenity(ies).
      1.   Guidelines And Standards: Every development shall provide one or
more of the pedestrian amenities listed below:
         a.   Plaza, courtyard, or square next to the building entrance. Size
must be approved by the planning commission.
         b.   Benches placed between the building entrance and sidewalk
(minimum of 16 inches in height and 30 inches in width). Number to be approved
by the planning commission.
         c.   Weather protection (building canopy, awning, pergola) shall be
placed for a minimum protection of four feet (4') over a sidewalk or other
pedestrian space.
         d.   Public art (fountains, sculpture, etc.) which incorporates
seating.
         e.   Transit amenity such as bus shelter, pull out or drop off.
   G.   Special Uses: This subsection provides standards for the following land
uses in order to control the scale and compatibility of those uses within the
downtown district. A planning commission determination is required for any of
the following special uses to be allowed within the downtown district:
      1.   Residential uses: Higher density residential uses, such as multi-
family buildings and attached townhomes, are permitted to encourage housing
near employment, shopping and services. All residential developments shall
comply with the standards noted below, which are intended to require mixed use
development; conserve the community's supply of commercial land for commercial
uses; provide for designs which are compatible with a storefront character;
avoid or minimize impacts associated with traffic and parking; and ensure
proper management and maintenance of common areas. Residential uses, which
existed prior to the effective date of this code are exempt from this
subsection.
         a.   Mixed Use Development Required: Residential ("vertical" mixed use
with housing above the ground floor) uses shall be permitted only when they are
a part of a mixed use development (residential with commercial or public and
institutional use). Mixed use development shall be determined by the planning
commission on a case by case basis.
         b.   Street Level Housing: Limitation on street level housing shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis. This standard is
intended to reserve storefront space for commercial uses and public/
institutional uses; it does not limit residential uses above the street level
on upper stories, or behind street level storefronts. For parcels with street
access at more than one level (sloping site with 2 street frontages), the
limitation on residential building space shall apply to all street frontages.
         c.   Density: Density shall be determined by the planning commission,
on a case by case basis. Density shall be controlled by the applicable lot
coverage and building height standards. Street level facades shall be
commercial or institutional uses only.
         d.   Parking, Garages, And Driveways: All off street vehicle parking,
including surface lots and garages, shall be oriented to alleys, placed
underground, placed in structures above the ground floor, or located in parking
areas located behind or to the side of the building; except that side yards
facing a street shall not be used for surface parking. All garage entrances
facing a street shall be recessed behind the front building elevation by a
minimum of six feet (6'). On corner lots, garage entrances shall be oriented to
a side street when access cannot be provided from an alley.
      2.   Public and institutional uses: Shall comply with this section.
      3.   Accessory uses and structures: Shall be of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure on the same lot.
An accessory structure and/or use shall not be allowed before or without a
primary use existing on the lot. The planning commission shall determine the
accessory use and/or structure on a case by case basis.
   H.   Main Street: Second floor residential on Main Street, shall be
determined by the planning commission and shall comply with the standards of
this section.
   I.   Drive-Up Facilities: Drive-up facilities are permitted only when
accessory to a primary commercial walk-in use, and shall conform to the
following standards:
      1.   The facility receives access from an alley or driveway, and not a
street;
      2.   Drive-up facilities shall not be oriented to a street corner;
      3.   The facility is subordinate to a primary permitted use.
"Subordinate" means all components of the facility, in total, occupy less
street frontage than the primary commercial or public/institutional building;
and
      4.   No more than one drive-up facility shall be permitted on one block,
or for a distance of four hundred feet (400') along the same street frontage,
whichever is less.
   J.   Off Street Parking: Where there is no building, parking shall be
screened by a low wall or a five foot (5') wide low hedge and trees. Screening
type and height shall be determined by the planning commission. Parking shall
conform with section
11-9-2, "Off Street Parking Specifications", of this title.
   K.   Superblock Development: Commercial and mixed use developments may
exceed block width and depth standards when the total floor area of these
developments exceeds forty thousand (40,000) square feet on the ground floor.
Each development has at least one street with the basic elements of a good
pedestrian oriented street: building oriented to street. Provide usable
pedestrian space e.g., plaza, extra wide pathway/sidewalk, seating, and on
street parking to improve the pedestrian environment. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-3-7: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE, M:
   A.   Permitted Uses In M Zone: In an M zone the following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted outright:
Feed store.
Manufacturing, repairing, compounding, processing and storage.
Public uses.
Wholesale distributing facility or warehouse.
   B.   Conditional Uses Permitted In M Zone: In an M zone the following uses
and their accessory uses are permitted when authorized in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title:
Automobile and truck service stations.
Utility structure.
   C.   Dimensional Standards In M Zone: In an M zone the following dimensional
standards shall apply: the lot area shall be adequate to meet the needs of the
establishment, the requirements of the Oregon state structural specialty code
and fire and life safety code, the requirements of the city's fire zones and
shall provide adequate space for parking and loading pursuant to chapter 9 of
this title.
      1.   Front setback shall be:
         a.   Thirty feet (30') on Heppner Highway, and
         b.   Twenty five feet (25') along Riverside Avenue.
      2.   Parking and loading shall be screened as described in landscape
section of the city's ordinance. Landscape screen shall be a minimum of five
feet (5') in width.
      3.   Structures shall have a ten foot (10') minimum landscape buffer
between the building and parking areas on the side facing public right of way.
The building entry will be clearly articulated.
   D.   Limitations On Use: In an M zone the following limitations and
conditions shall apply:
      1.   A use which creates a nuisance because of noise, smoke, odor,
radiation, dust or gas is prohibited.
      2.   Materials shall be stored and ground shall be maintained in a manner
which will not attract or aid the propagation of insects or rodents or
otherwise create a health hazard.
      3.   Any use of property within one hundred feet (100') of a lot in a
residential zone shall be subject to the review and approval of the planning
commission. The planning commission may impose such limitations as may be
required to reduce conflicts between uses. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-3-8: HISTORIC SITES, STRUCTURES AND OBJECTS:
   A.   The city adopts the following criteria for determining the designation
of an historic resource. If the resource meets the criteria, it would be listed
in the comprehensive plan.
      1.   The site, structure or object must be of historical significance to
the city, the region or the state in terms of events which have occurred, or
      2.   The site, structure or object must be of archaeological or
architectural significance to the city, the region or the state.
   B.   The city will protect its valuable historic resources through review or
proposals for alteration, demolition or relocation of such resources.
   C.   The city adopts the following procedure for the protection of
identified historic resources in this zoning title:
Upon receiving a land use application involving a historic site or structure as
designated by the comprehensive plan, the planning commission, in a public
meeting, shall review the application to determine its conformance with the
historic preservation factors of this section. If it is determined the land use
action will result in the demolition or extensive exterior modification of any
historic building, the planning commission shall review the application taking
into account the following:
      1.   State of repair of the building.
      2.   The reasonableness of the cost of restoration or repair.
      3.   The purpose of preserving such designated historical buildings and
sites.
      4.   The character of the neighborhood.
      5.   All other factors the planning commission feels are appropriate.
   D.   Following the planning commission review, the planning commission may
approve or deny the permit for land use action or delay action for sixty (60)
days to allow cognizant agencies to explore alternatives. If no suitable
alternatives are available, the permit may be issued. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 4
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
11-4-1: Definition
11-4-2: Circumstances For Allowing Nonconforming Use
11-4-1: DEFINITION:
A "nonconforming use" is defined as a structure or use lawfully in existence at
the time this Title or any amendment thereto becomes effective, which does not
conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located. (Ord. 428, 8-6-
1979)
11-4-2: CIRCUMSTANCES FOR ALLOWING NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Continuation And Improvements: A nonconforming use may be continued
although not in conformity with the regulations for the zone in which the use
is located, and improvements to the property or structure or both may be made,
when necessary, to continue but not expand the use. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
   B.   Structural Changes And Alterations Of Use:
      1.   A nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming
use may not be structurally expanded. A structural expansion includes, but is
not limited to, an increase in cubic or square footage of the structure. Should
a nonconforming use or structure containing a nonconforming use be destroyed, a
like structure may be rebuilt and the existing use be continued; provided, that
structure is completely rebuilt within a one year period of time commencing at
the time the structure was destroyed. Likewise, a nonconforming structure or a
structure containing a nonconforming use may be rebuilt, altered or modified
and the nonconforming use continued if the rebuilding, alteration or
modification is accomplished within a one year period from the time of
commencement. Under no circumstances may any rebuilt, altered or changed
structure contain additional square or cubic footage or be an expansion of an
existing structure. A nonconforming use or a structure containing a
nonconforming use may not be altered to another use unless the change or
alteration is to the same use classification as permitted in this Title, or to
a classification that more nearly conforms to the regulations of the zone in
which the use is located. (Ord. 435, 4-7-1980)
      2.   Other provisions of this Section notwithstanding, where a
manufactured home exists in an R-1 Zone as a nonconforming use or structure,
the manufactured home may be replaced with another manufactured home, provided
the conditions of subsection C of this Section are not violated. An application
for replacement manufactured home in an R-1 Zone shall be for a conditional use
under this Title. Placement of a manufactured home under this subsection shall
be subject to all the requirements for siting a manufactured home under this
Title. (Ord. 459, 6-3-1985; amd. Ord. 517-96, 10-14-1996)
   C.   Discontinuation Or Abandonment Of Use: If the nonconforming use is
discontinued or abandoned for the period of one year, further use of the
property shall conform to this Title. (Ord. 435, 4-7-1980)
   D.   Pre-Existing Permits: Nothing contained in this Title shall require any
changes in the plans, construction, alteration or designated use of a structure
for which a permit has been issued or approved by the City and construction has
commenced prior to the effective date hereof, provided the structure, if
nonconforming or intended for a nonconforming use, is completed and in use
within two (2) years from the time the permit was issued. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
CHAPTER 5
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Authorization To Grant Or Deny Conditional Uses
11-5-2: Placing Conditions On Permit
11-5-3: Application For Conditional Use
11-5-4: Conditional Use Application Procedure
11-5-5: Time Limit On Permit For Conditional Use
11-5-6: Time Limit On Reapplication
11-5-7: Site Plan Required
11-5-1: AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL USES:
A conditional use listed in this title shall be permitted, altered or denied in
accordance with the standards and procedures of this chapter. In the case of a
use existing prior to the effective date of this title and classified in this
title as a conditional use, a change in the use or in lot area or an alteration
of structure shall conform with the requirements for conditional use. A
conditional use proposal shall be approved by the planning commission if the
following criteria are either met, can be met by observance of conditions, or
are found not applicable:
   A.   The use will be consistent with the comprehensive plan and the
objectives of this title and other applicable policies of the city.
   B.   Taking into account location, size, design and operating
characteristics, the use shall not unreasonably interfere with continuation of
existing outright uses of the zone.
   C.   The location and design of the site and structures for the use will be
as attractive as the nature of the use and its setting warrants.
   D.   The use will not have a significant adverse impact on public facilities
including, but not limited to, streets, sewer and water facilities, such as the
traffic generated by the use surpassing the capacity of the street serving the
use.
   E.   The design shall retain trees or other natural or manmade features
which provide recreational assets, shade or windbreak resources, a measure of
safety to city residents, such as special lighting or fencing, features of
historical significance.
   F.   The applicant has a bona fide intent and capability to develop and use
the land as proposed and has some appropriate purpose for submitting the
proposal and is not motivated solely by such purposes as the alteration of
property values for speculative purposes. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
11-5-2: PLACING CONDITIONS ON PERMIT:
In permitting a new conditional use or the alteration of an existing
conditional use, the planning commission may impose conditions which it finds
necessary and reasonable to minimize conflict between the proposed use and
existing uses or uses permitted outright. The conditions may include the
following:
   A.   Limiting the manner in which the use is conducted, including
restricting the time an activity may take place and restraints to minimize such
environmental effects as noise, vibration, air pollution, glare and odor.
   B.   Establishing a special yard or other open space or lot area or
dimension.
   C.   Limiting the height, size or location of a building or other structure.
   D.   Designating the size, number, location and nature of vehicle access
points and off street parking spaces.
   E.   Increasing the amount of street dedication, roadway width or
improvement within the street right of way.
   F.   Designating the size, location, screening, drainage, surfacing or other
improvement of a parking area or truck loading area.
   G.   Limiting or otherwise designating the number, size, location, height
and lighting of signs.
   H.   Limiting the location and intensity of outdoor lighting and requiring
its shielding.
   I.   Requiring diking, screening, landscaping or another facility to protect
adjacent or nearby property and designating standards for its installation and
maintenance.
   J.   Designating the size, height, location and materials for a fence.
   K.   Protecting and preserving existing trees, vegetation, water resources,
wildlife habitat or another significant natural resource.
   L.   Other reasonable measures to permit the development of the city in
conformity with the intent and purpose of the conditional classification of
uses. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
   M.   Requiring a children's play area or outdoor recreation area, or both,
in the case of a multi-family dwelling or a manufactured home park of ten (10)
or more units. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979; amd. Ord. 517-96, 10-14-1996)
   N.   Limiting the duration of the use in months or years. (Ord. 555-05, 6-
11-2005)
11-5-3: APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE:
   A.   A request for a conditional use or modification of an existing
conditional use may be initiated by a property owner or the authorized agent of
the owner by filing an application with the planning commission in accordance
with chapter 12 of this title. In addition to the requirements of chapter 12 of
this title, the applicant must show that the proposed conditional use
reasonably meets the need recognized by this title.
   B.   In addition to filing an application, the planning commission may
require the applicant to post bond up to the amount of the cost of meeting
conditions and standards specified by this title or the planning commission.
The bond shall be returned upon proof by the applicant that the conditions and
standards have been met. If conditions and standards required are not met
within one year, the bond shall be forfeited and the city may institute
proceedings under chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
11-5-4: CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
The procedure for taking action on a conditional use application shall be as
follows:
   A.   Public Hearing Requirements: Before the planning commission may act on
an application for conditional use, a public hearing shall be held as provided
in chapter 12 of this title.
   B.   Application Review: Upon receipt of the application, the city recorder
shall provide copies of the application material to the planning commission
members.
   C.   Notice To Applicant Of Action Taken: Following the close of the
hearing, the city recorder shall provide the applicant with written notice of
the action taken as provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
11-5-5: TIME LIMIT ON PERMIT FOR CONDITIONAL USE:
Authorization of a conditional use shall be void after one year or such time as
the authorization may specify unless all requirements of this title and of the
planning commission have been met. The planning commission may extend such
authorization for a period not to exceed one additional year. (Ord. 428, 8-6-
1979)
11-5-6: TIME LIMIT ON REAPPLICATION:
No application for a conditional use permit shall be considered by the planning
commission within one year of the denial of the request, unless in the opinion
of the planning commission new evidence or a change of circumstances warrant
it. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
11-5-7: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
A site plan shall be required for all zoning permits and for all variance and
conditional use permits. The site plan shall conform to standards outlined in
section
11-15-3 of this title. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-6-1: Authorization to Grant or Deny Variances
11-6-2: Circumstances for Granting Variance
11-6-3: Variance Application Procedure
11-6-4: Time Limit on Permit for Variance
11-6-1: AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY VARIANCES:
The Planning Commission may authorize variances from the requirements of this
Title where it can be shown that owing to special and unusual circumstances
relating to a specific piece of property, strict application of this Title
would cause an undue or unnecessary hardship. No variance shall be granted to
allow the use of the property for a purpose not authorized within the same zone
in which the proposed use would be located. In granting variances, the Planning
Commission may attach conditions which it finds necessary to protect the best
interest of the surrounding property or vicinity and otherwise achieve the
purpose of this Title. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
11-6-2: CIRCUMSTANCES FOR GRANTING VARIANCE:
A variance may be granted only in the event that all of the following
circumstances exist:
   A.   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply only to the property
which do not apply generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity
and which result from lot size or shape, topography or other circumstances over
which the owner of the property, since the enactment of this Title, has no
control.
   B.   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right of
the applicant substantially the same as owners of other property in the zone or
vicinity possess.
   C.   There is a public need for the purpose to be achieved by the variance.
   D.   The public need is reasonably met by the variance.
   E.   The variance would not be materially detrimental to the purposes of
this Title, or to property in the same zone or vicinity in which the property
is located and the variance is in compliance with and is not a deviation from
the Comprehensive Plan for the City.
   F.   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would alleviate
the hardship. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
11-6-3: VARIANCE APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
The procedure for taking action on an application for a variance shall be as
follows:
   A.   A property owner may initiate a request for a variance by filing an
application as provided in Chapter 12 of this Title.
   B.   Before the Planning Commission may act on a variance application, it
shall hold a public hearing thereon, following the procedure prescribed in
Chapter 12 of this Title. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
11-6-4: TIME LIMIT ON PERMIT FOR VARIANCE:
Authorization for a variance shall be void after one year unless substantial
construction has taken place. However, the Planning Commission may extend
authorization for a period not to exceed one additional year, on request. (Ord.
428, 8-6-79)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 517-96, 10-14-1996)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 9
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-9-1: General Parking And Loading Provisions
11-9-2: Off Street Parking Specifications
11-9-3: Joint Parking
11-9-4: Off Street Loading
11-9-5: Nonlisted Uses
11-9-6: Surfacing
11-9-7: Access And Circulation
11-9-8: Clear Vision Requirements
11-9-9: Landscaping Requirements
11-9-1: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Provision Of Facilities: At the time of erection of a new structure or
at the time of enlargement of an existing structure, off street parking and
loading shall be provided as specified in this chapter, unless greater
requirements are otherwise established. Federal requirements for provisions of
parking facilities for handicapped persons shall be met. (Ord. 555-05, 6-11-
2005)
   B.   Parking Space Maintenance: The provision and maintenance of off street
parking and loading spaces are continuing obligations of the property owner. No
building permit shall be issued until plans are presented to the city that show
property that is and will remain available for exclusive use as off street
parking and loading space. The subsequent use of the property shall be
conditional upon the continuing availability of the amount of parking and
loading space required by this chapter.
   C.   Structure Occupancy: If several uses occupy a single structure or
parcel of land, the total requirements for off street parking shall be the sum
of the requirements of the several uses computed separately.
   D.   Total Requirements: Where several uses occupy a single structure or
parcels of land, or where two (2) or more adjacent parcels share an access or
are connected by a cross access, shared parking shall be permitted, and a
reduction in required parking spaces granted, if peak demands do not occur at
the same time period.
   E.   Downtown District Parking: Parking requirements would maintain adequate
downtown parking, based on the following requirements:
      1.   In the downtown district the amount of off street parking required
will be reduced by one off street parking space for every on street parking
space adjacent to the development. Curb space must be connected to the lot
which contains the use.
      2.   Credited on street parking is not for the exclusive use to the
development it credits.
      3.   Off site parking and shared parking shall be allowed in the downtown
district.
      4.   The number of parking spaces required for development in the
downtown district may be modified by the planning commission if it can be
demonstrated that the required number of spaces as required in subsection
11-9-2A of this chapter is excessive.
      5.   Use of alley parking shall be encouraged.
   F.   Parking Space Location: Required parking spaces may be located on a
parcel other than the parcel being developed, provided that the following
requirements are met:
      1.   The owner of the property being developed has obtained, recorded and
placed on file with the city a contract with the owner of the property proposed
to be used for the parking, clearly agreeing to the other's use, so long as the
business being developed continues to remain in existence.
      2.   The parking area is within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the proposed
development and the total parking area assigned to the development meets all
other requirements.
      3.   The applicant has paid a fee to the city (with city approval) for
future construction of a parking facility sufficient to cover the cost of
providing for the number of spaces required (applies to downtown commercial
area only).
   G.   Parking Stall Standards And Dimensions: See table A, "Parking
Requirements", and table B, "Disabled Persons Parking Spaces" of this section.
   TABLE A. PARKING REQUIREMENTS
   Minimum Parking Space And Aisle Dimensions
Angle (A) Type Width (B) Curb Length  One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle Stall Depth
                         (C)          Width (D)     Width (D)     (E)
                              Curb Length One-Way     Two-Way      Stall Depth
Angle (A)  Type     Width (B) (C)         Aisle Width Aisle Width  (E)
                                          (D)         (D)
0°        Standard 8'        22'6"       12'         24'          8'
(parallel)
           Compact  7'6"      19'6"       12'         24'          7'6"
30°       Standard 9'        18'         12'         24'          17'
           Compact  7'6"      15'         12'         24'          14'
45°       Standard 9'        12'6"       12'         24'          19'
           Compact  7'6"      10'6"       12'         24'          16'
60°       Standard 9'        10'6"       18'         24'          20'
           Compact  7'6"      8'6"        15'         24'          16'6"
90°       Standard 9'        9'          24'         24'          19'
           Compact  7'6"      7'6"        22'         24'          15'
 
   TABLE B. DISABLED PERSONS PARKING SPACES
   Minimum Number Of Accessible Parking
   Spaces ADA Standards For Accessible Design
Total Number Of    Total Minimum Number Van Accessible      Accessible
Parking Spaces     Of Accessible        Parking Spaces With Parking Spaces With
Provided (Per Lot) Parking Spaces       Minimum 96" Wide    Minimum 60" Wide
                   (60" And 96" Aisles) Access Aisle        Access Aisle
                   Column A
Total Number Of    Total Minimum Number Van Accessible      Accessible
Parking Spaces     Of Accessible        Parking Spaces With Parking Spaces With
Provided (Per Lot) Parking Spaces       Minimum 96" Wide    Minimum 60" Wide
                   (60" And 96" Aisles) Access Aisle        Access Aisle
                   Column A
1 to 25            1                    1                   0
26 to 50           2                    1                   1
51 to 75           3                    1                   2
76 to 100          4                    1                   3
101 to 150         5                    1                   4
151 to 200         6                    1                   5
201 to 300         7                    1                   6
301 to 400         8                    1                   7
401 to 500         9                    2                   7
                   2 percent of total
501 to 1,000       parking provided in  1/8 of column A1    7/8 of column A2
                   each lot
1,001 and over     20 plus 1 for each   1/8 of column A1    7/8 of column A2
                   100 over 1,000
 
Notes:
   1.    1 out of every 8 accessible spaces.
   2.    7 out of every 8 accessible parking spaces.
(Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-9-2: OFF STREET PARKING SPECIFICATIONS:
Where floor area is specified, that area shall be gross floor area of the
structure, exclusive of any area devoted to off street parking or loading.
Where the number of employees is used to determine parking requirements,
persons counted shall be those intended to be working on the premises,
including proprietors, during the largest shift in peak season. Fractional
requirements shall be counted as a whole space. The specifications for parking
spaces for enlargement of existing structures are measured by the enlargement
or by the number of additional employees attributable to the enlargement, not
the structure as a whole. If the property contains enough parking to meet the
parking requirements prior to the enlargement plus the parking requirements
attributable to the enlargement, no additional parking shall be required. (Ord.
555-05, 6-11-2005)
Unless stated elsewhere under this chapter, bicycle parking shall be provided
for each commercial business or residential facility at the rate of one bicycle
parking space per twenty (20) motor vehicle parking spaces.
   A.   Parking Spaces Are Required As Follows:
   Use       Standard           
   Use                                                                 Standard           
Residential:
                                                                                1 space per dwelling
   Hotel or motel                                                           unit and 1 space for
                                                                                manager.
                                                                                2 spaces per dwelling
   Multi-family dwellings                                                   unit and 1 bicycle
                                                                                space per 2 dwelling
                                                                                units.
   One- or two-family dwellings                                             2 spaces per dwelling
                                                                                unit.
Institutional:
   Clubs or meeting halls                                                   1 space per 100 square
                                                                                feet of floor area.
                                                                                1 space per classroom
                                                                                plus 1 space per
   Elementary or junior high school                                         administrative
                                                                                employee and 1 bicycle
                                                                                space per 4 students.
                                                                                1 space for each
                                                                                employee and 1 bicycle
                                                                                space per 4 students.
   High school                                                              1.5 spaces per
                                                                                classroom and 1 space
                                                                                per 10 students school
                                                                                is designed for.
   Hospital, nursing home, home for aged                                    1 space per bed plus 1
                                                                                space per 2 employees.
   Preschool or kindergarten                                                2 spaces per teacher.
                                                                                1 space for each 4
                                                                                seats or if not fixed
   Theater, auditorium, church, stadium or other assembly area              seats, then 1 space
                                                                                for each 72 square
                                                                                feet of floor area.
Commercial:
   Bank or professional offices (except medical or dental)                  1 space per 450 square
                                                                                feet of floor area.
   Bowling alley                                                            2 spaces per lane plus
                                                                                1 space per employee.
                                                                                1 space per 350 square
   Doctors and dentists (medical and dental clinics)                        feet of floor area and
                                                                                1 space per employee.
                                                                                1 space per 200 square
   Eating or drinking establishments                                        feet of floor area
                                                                                plus 1 space per 2
                                                                                employees.
                                                                                1 space per 350 square
                                                                                feet of floor area and
   Retail stores                                                            1 bicycle space per
                                                                                600 feet of floor
                                                                                area.
                                                                                1 space per 600 square
   Service or repair shop                                                   feet of floor area
                                                                                plus 1 space per 2
                                                                                employees.
Industrial:
                                                                                1 space per 1.5
                                                                                employees on largest
   Public utilities (not including business offices)                        shift, plus 1 space
                                                                                per company vehicle, a
                                                                                minimum of 2.
   Storage warehouse, manufacturing establishments, freight terminal, food  1 space per employee
processing                                                                      at the largest shift.
                                                                                1 space per employee
   Wholesale establishment                                                  plus 1 space per 700
                                                                                square feet of patron
                                                                                serving area.
 
   B.   School Bus Loading Areas: Each school having a capacity of over twenty
five (25) pupils shall have a driveway designed for a continuous forward flow
of passenger vehicles for the purpose of loading and unloading children.
   C.   Residential Parking: Off street residential occupant parking shall be
provided for each dwelling unit. No parking shall be allowed in the front yards
of the dwelling units other than on a driveway. Parking may be allowed in one
side yard of a dwelling unit if the vehicle does not create a fire or safety
hazard and adequate passage to the rear yard is provided by the other side
yard. Trucks used in a business, if parked at a residence, shall be parked on
the lot of the dwelling unit and shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Bicycle Racks: Bicycle spaces shall be racks anchored so that they
cannot be easily removed. Racks shall be designed so that at least one wheel
and the frame of a bicycle can be locked securely to it with a heavy chain,
cable or padlock. Bicycle racks shall be clearly labeled as available for
bicycles and shall be located to be at least as convenient as the most
convenient car parking, and as close to the desired entrances as possible
without interfering with pedestrian traffic. Bicycle and auto parking areas
should be separated by some form of barrier to eliminate the possibility of a
bike being hit by a car. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-9-3: JOINT PARKING:
Owners of two (2) or more uses, structures or parcels of land may agree to
utilize jointly the same parking and loading spaces when the hours of operation
do not overlap; providing, that the owners present to the planning commission
legal evidence of such arrangement in the form of a lease, deed or contract.
(Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-9-4: OFF STREET LOADING:
Any off street loading other than school buses shall be located such that there
is no interference with traffic on any street other than an alley. (Ord. 542,
8-11-2003)
11-9-5: NONLISTED USES:
Requirements for types of buildings and uses not specifically listed herein
shall be determined by the planning commission, based upon the requirements of
comparable uses listed. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-9-6: SURFACING:
   A.   All off street parking spaces and driveways, except those single-family
residences, shall be hard surfaced with concrete, asphalt, cement, oil mat or
similar surface which is resistant to dust and mud. Type and thickness of this
hard surface must be approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Surfaces other than asphalt and concrete in the downtown district shall
require a conditional use approval through the planning commission. (Ord. 542,
8-11-2003)
11-9-7: ACCESS AND CIRCULATION:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: The intent of this section is to manage access to
land development while preserving the flow of traffic in terms of safety,
capacity, functional classification, and level of service.
Major roadways, including highways, arterials, and collectors serve as the
primary network for moving people and goods. These transportation corridors
also provide access to businesses and homes and have served as the focus for
commercial and residential development. If access points are not properly
designed, these roadways will be unable to accommodate the needs of development
and retain their primary transportation function. This section balances the
right of reasonable access to private property with the right of the citizens
of the city of Heppner and the state of Oregon to safe and efficient travel.
This section shall apply to all public roadways within the city of Heppner and
to all properties that abut these roadways.
This section is adopted to implement the access management policies of the city
of Heppner as set forth in the transportation system plan.
   B.   Driveways: Groups of more than four (4) off street parking spaces shall
be served by a driveway or aisle so that no backing movements or other
maneuvering within a street other than an alley will be required. Driveways or
aisles shall be clearly and permanently marked and defined through the use of
bumper rails, fences, painting, walls or other appropriate markers and shall
not be considered as parking spaces.
   C.   Main Street Access: No new access on Main Street between Church and
Cannon Streets. Where property is accessible by alleys or by side street, Main
Street access will be eliminated at the time of redevelopment.
   D.   Designation Of Streets: The City Planning Commission shall designate
all City streets and State highways classified as local, collector, or arterial
as an access management roadway. When a development is proposed along an access
management roadway, the Planning Director shall review the development to see
if it meets the requirements of this subsection. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
   E.   Access Standards: Uses and developments permitted outright or
conditionally in the underlying zone shall be permitted if they comply with the
access spacing standards shown in table 15 and table 16 of the Transportation
System Plan. In cases where physical constraints or unique site characteristics
limit the ability for these access spacing standards to be met, the City
retains the right to grant an access spacing variance. Approval for an access
spacing variance is subject to criteria and procedures for variances found in
chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
   F.   Access Connection And Driveway Design: Driveways shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Private Access Driveway Width Standards: All private access
driveways shall meet the following standards. Those that do not meet these
standards shall require an access variance.
 
Land Use                  Minimum Maximum
                          (Feet)  (Feet)
Single-family residential 12      24
Multi-family residential  24      30
Commercial                30      40
Industrial                30      40
 
         a.   If the driveway is a one-way in or one-way out drive, then the
driveway shall be a minimum width of ten feet (10') and shall have appropriate
signage designating the driveway as a one-way connection.
      2.   Driveway Approaches: Driveway approaches must be designed and
located to provide an exiting vehicle with an unobstructed view. Construction
of driveways along acceleration or deceleration lanes and tapers shall be
avoided due to the potential for vehicular weaving conflicts.
      3.   Driveway Length: The length of driveways shall be designed in
accordance with the anticipated storage length for entering and exiting
vehicles to prevent vehicles from backing into the flow of traffic on the
public street or causing unsafe conflicts with on site circulation.
   G.   Nonconforming Access Features:
      1.   Legal access connections in place as of August 11, 2003, that do not
conform with the standards herein are considered nonconforming features and
shall be brought into compliance with applicable standards under the following
conditions:
         a.   When new access connection permits are requested;
         b.   Change in use or enlargements or improvements that will increase
trip generation.
   H.   Joint And Cross Access:
      1.   Adjacent commercial or office properties classified as major traffic
generators (shopping plazas, office parks), shall provide a cross access drive
and pedestrian access to allow circulation between sites.
      2.   A system of joint use driveways and cross access easements shall be
established wherever feasible and shall incorporate the following:
         a.   A continuous service drive or cross access corridor extending the
entire length of each block served to provide for driveway separation
consistent with the access management classification system and standards.
         b.   A design speed of ten (10) mph and a maximum width of twenty feet
(20') to accommodate two-way travel aisles designated to accommodate
automobiles, service vehicles, and loading vehicles.
         c.   Stub-outs and other design features to make it visually obvious
that the abutting properties may be tied in to provide cross access via a
service drive;
         d.   A unified access and circulation system plan for coordinated or
shared parking areas is encouraged.
      3.   Shared parking areas shall be permitted and a reduction in required
parking spaces if peak demands do not occur at the same time periods.
      4.   Pursuant to this section, property owners shall:
         a.   Record an easement with the deed allowing cross access to and
from other properties served by the joint use driveways and cross access or
service drive;
         b.   Record an agreement with the deed that remaining access rights
along the roadway will be dedicated to the city and preexisting driveways will
be closed and eliminated after construction of the joint use driveway;
         c.   Record a joint maintenance agreement with the deed defining
maintenance responsibilities of property owners.
      5.   The city may reduce required separation distance of access points
where they prove impractical, provided all of the following requirements are
met:
         a.   Joint access driveways and cross access easements are provided in
accordance with this section.
         b.   The site plan incorporates a unified access and circulation
system in accordance with this section.
         c.   The property owner enters into a written agreement with the city,
recorded with the deed, that preexisting connections on the site will be closed
and eliminated after construction of each side of the joint use driveway.
      6.   The city may modify or waive the requirements of this section where
the characteristics or layout of abutting properties would make a development
of a unified or shared access and circulation system impractical.
   I.   Pedestrian Access And Circulation:
      1.   On site facilities shall be provided that accommodate safe and
convenient pedestrian and bicycle access within new subdivisions, multi-family
developments, planned development, shopping centers, and commercial districts,
and connecting to adjacent residential areas and neighborhood activity centers
within one-half (1/2) mile of the development. Residential developments shall
include streets with sidewalks and accessways. Pedestrian circulation through
parking lots shall be provided in the form of accessways.
      2.   Internal pedestrian circulation shall be provided in new commercial,
office, and multi-family residential developments through the clustering of
buildings, construction of hard surface walkways, landscaping, accessways, or
similar techniques.
      3.   Cul-de-sacs or permanent dead end streets may be used as part of a
development plan; however, through streets are encouraged except where
topographical, environmental, or existing adjacent land use constraints make
connecting streets infeasible. Where cul-de-sacs are planned, accessways shall
be provided connecting the ends of cul-de-sacs to each other, to other streets,
or to neighborhood activity centers.
      4.   Accessways for pedestrians and bicyclists shall be ten feet (10')
wide and located within a twenty foot (20') wide right of way or easement. If
the streets within the subdivision are lighted, the accessways shall also be
lighted. Stairs or switchback paths may be used where grades are steep.
   J.   Requirements For Phased Development Plans:
      1.   In the interest of promoting unified access and circulation systems,
development sites under the same ownership or consolidated for the purposes of
development and comprised of more than one building site shall be reviewed as
single properties in relation to the access standards of this section. The
number of access points permitted shall be the minimum number necessary to
provide reasonable access to these properties, not the maximum available for
that frontage. All necessary easements, agreements, and stipulations shall be
met. This shall also apply to phased development plans. The owner and all
lessees within the affected area are responsible for compliance with the
requirements of this section and both shall be cited for any violation.
      2.   All access must be internalized using the shared circulation system
of the principal development or retail center. Driveways shall be designed to
avoid queuing across surrounding parking and driving aisles.
   K.   Preliminary Submittal Requirements: Applicants must submit a
preliminary site plan for review by the city, prior to receiving an access or
zoning permit.
   L.   Required Traffic Studies: All land use actions, new developments, and/
or redevelopments accessing the transportation system will need to provide
traffic impact studies to the city and appropriate agencies (Morrow County and/
or ODOT) if the proposed land use meets one or more of the following traffic
impact study thresholds. A traffic impact study will not be required of a
development that does not exceed the stated thresholds. All traffic impact
studies will need to be prepared by a registered professional engineer.
      1.   Trip generation threshold: Fifty (50) newly generated vehicle trips
(inbound and outbound) during the adjacent street peak hour.
      2.   Mitigation threshold: Installation of any traffic control device
and/or construction of any geometric improvements that will affect the
progression or operation of traffic traveling, entering, or existing on the
highway.
      3.   Heavy vehicle trip generation threshold: Twenty (20) newly generated
heavy vehicle trips (inbound and outbound) during the day.
The trip generation estimates should be based on the latest edition of the
"Institute Of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Manual". The city may
use alternative data when, in the city manager's opinion, the alternative data
is more reliable and realistic for a particular development than those
identified by the latest trip generation manual.
      4.   The developer shall be required to mitigate impacts attributable to
the project. The determination of impact or effect and the scope of the impact
shall be coordinated with the provider of the affected transportation facility.
   M.   Review Criteria: See section 11-9-15.2.
   N.   Access Variances: Access points not meeting the specified spacing
requirements for the facility will require an access variance. The access
variance will be reviewed by ODOT for proposed Highway 207/74 access driveways
and by the city of Heppner or Morrow County for all other facilities within the
urban growth boundary. Variances will be allowed under the following
conditions:
      1.   The parcel's highway frontage, topography, or location would
otherwise preclude issuance of a conforming access point.
      2.   Alternative access (crossover easement, shared side street, and/or
rear access) is not available to a parcel.
An approved access variance will provide the parcel with a conditional access
permit. The conditional access permit will remain valid until a neighboring
(adjacent or across the highway) piece of property goes through a land use
action or alternative access is provided. The city, county or ODOT will then
have the right to either relocate the conditional access driveway to align with
an opposing driveway, eliminate the access and provide crossover access, or
consolidate the access with an adjacent parcel.
      3.   The granting of the variation shall be in harmony with the purpose
and intent of these regulations and shall not be considered until every
feasible option for meeting access standards is explored. Applicants shall
include proof that:
         a.   Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained.
         b.   No engineering or construction solutions can be applied to
mitigate the condition.
         c.   No alternative access is available to a facility of a lower
functional classification. No variance shall be granted where such hardship is
self-created.
   O.   Approval Conditions: Once the city has reviewed the elements identified
in subsection L, "Required Traffic Studies", of this section the city should
determine whether the proposed land use action should be conditioned with one
or more of the following items in order to maintain the existing operation and
safety of existing facilities and provide the necessary right of way and
improvements to develop the future planned transportation system:
      1.   Dedication of land for streets, transit facilities, sidewalks,
bikeways, paths, or accessways shall be required where the existing
transportation system will be impacted by or is inadequate to handle the
additional burden caused by the proposed use.
      2.   Improvements such as paving, curbing, installation or contribution
to traffic signals, construction of sidewalks, bikeways, accessways, paths, or
streets that serve the proposed use where the existing transportation system
may be burdened by the proposed use.
      3.   Crossover easement agreements will be required on all compatible
parcels (topography, access, and land use) to facilitate future access between
adjoining parcels.
      4.   Conditional access permits will be issued on new developments that
have proposed access points that do not meet the designated access spacing
policy and/or have the ability to align with opposing access driveways.
      5.   Right of way dedications will be required to facilitate the future
planned roadway system in the vicinity of the proposed development.
      6.   Half street improvements (sidewalks, curb and gutter, bike lanes/
paths, and/or travel lanes) should be provided along site frontages that do not
have full build out improvements in place at the time of development.
   P.   Connectivity:
      1.   The street system of proposed developments and subdivisions shall be
designed to connect with existing, proposed, and planned streets outside of the
subdivision as provided in this section. To ensure continuation of the existing
street grid and a pedestrian friendly scale of the city blocks, block lengths
in excess of three hundred feet (300') and block perimeters in excess of one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') are prohibited for residential development.
For commercial and industrial development the block lengths may be greater and
must be approved by the planning commission.
      2.   Wherever a proposed development abuts unplatted land or future
development phase of the same development, street stubs shall be provided to
provide access to abutting properties or to logically extend the street system
into the surrounding area. All street stubs shall be provided with a temporary
turnaround unless specifically exempted by the public works director, and the
restoration and extension of the street shall be the responsibility of any
future developer of the abutting land.
      3.   Minor collector and local residential access streets shall connect
with surrounding streets to permit the convenient movement of traffic between
residential neighborhoods or facilitate emergency access and evacuation.
Connections shall be designed to avoid or minimize through traffic on local
streets. Appropriate design and traffic control such as four-way stops and
traffic calming measures are the preferred means of discouraging through
traffic.
   Q.   Approvals And Notices:
      1.   Permits for accesses to state highways shall be subject to review
and approval by ODOT.
      2.   ODOT and Morrow County public works department shall be notified of
all land use actions on or adjacent to a state or county facility or action
that may impact such facilities.
   R.   State Projects; Review: For state projects that require an
environmental impact study (EIS) or environmental assessment (EA), the draft
EIS or EA shall serve as the documentation for local land use review, if local
review is required.
   S.   Standards For Transportation Improvements:
      1.   Uses Permitted Outright: Except where otherwise specifically
regulated by this title, the following improvements are permitted outright:
         a.   Normal operation, maintenance, repair, and preservation
activities of existing transportation facilities.
         b.   Installation of culverts, pathways, medians, fencing, guardrails,
lighting, and similar types of improvements within the existing right of way.
         c.   Projects specifically identified in the transportation system
plan as not requiring further land use regulation.
         d.   Landscaping as part of a transportation facility.
         e.   Emergency measures necessary for the safety and protection of
property.
         f.   Acquisition of right of way for public roads, highways, and other
transportation improvements designated in the transportation system plan except
for those that are located in exclusive farm use or forest zones.
         g.   Construction of a street or road as part of an approved
subdivision or land partition approved consistent with the applicable land
division ordinance.
      2.   Conditional Uses Permitted:
         a.   Construction, reconstruction, or widening of highways, roads,
bridges or other transportation projects that are not improvements designated
in the transportation system plan or not designed and constructed as part of a
subdivision or planned development subject to site plan and/or conditional use
review, shall comply with the transportation system plan and applicable
standards, and shall address the following criteria. For state projects that
require an environmental impact statement (EIS) or environmental assessment
(EA), the draft EIS or EA shall be reviewed and used as the basis for findings
to comply with the following criteria:
            (1)   The project is designed to be compatible with existing land
use and social patterns, including noise generation, safety, and zoning.
            (2)   The project is designed to minimize avoidable environmental
impacts to identified wetlands, wildlife habitat, air and water quality,
cultural resources, and scenic qualities.
            (3)   The project preserves or improves the safety and function of
the facility through access management, traffic calming, or other design
features.
            (4)   Project includes provision for bicycle and pedestrian
circulation as consistent with the comprehensive plan and other requirements of
this title.
         b.   Construction of rest areas, weigh stations, temporary storage,
and processing sites (counties only).
         c.   If review under this section indicates that the use or activity
is inconsistent with the transportation system plan, the procedure for a plan
amendment shall be undertaken prior to or in conjunction with the conditional
permit review.
      3.   Time Limitation On Transportation Related Conditional Use Permits:
Authorization of a conditional use shall be void after a period specified by
the applicant as reasonable and necessary based on season, right of way
acquisition, and other pertinent factors. This period shall not exceed three
(3) years.
   T.   Amendments To Comprehensive Plan: Amendments to the comprehensive plan
and land use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility
shall assure that allowed land uses are consistent with the function, capacity,
and level of service of the facility identified in the transportation system
plan. This shall be accomplished by one of the following:
      1.   Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned
function of the transportation facility;
      2.   Amending the transportation system plan to ensure that existing,
improved, or new transportation facilities are adequate to support the proposed
land uses consistent with the requirement of the transportation planning rule;
or
      3.   Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to
reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.
(Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-9-8: CLEAR VISION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Clear Vision Areas: A clear vision area shall be maintained on the
corners of all property at the intersection of two (2) streets or a street and
a railroad.
      1.   A clear vision area shall consist of a triangular area, two (2)
sides of which are lot lines measured from the corner intersection of the
street lot lines for a distance specified in this subsection A, or where the
lot lines have rounded corners, the lot lines extended in a straight line to a
point of intersection and so measured and the third side of which is a line
across the corner of the lot joining the nonintersecting ends of the other two
(2) sides.
      2.   A clear vision area shall contain no planting, fence, wall,
structure or temporary or permanent obstruction exceeding two and one-half feet
(21/2') in height, measured from the top of the curb or, where no curb exists,
from the established street centerline grade; except, that trees exceeding this
height may be located in this area, provided all branches and foliage are
removed to a height of eight feet (8') above the grade.
      3.   The following measurements shall establish clear vision areas:
         a.   In a residential zone, the minimum distance shall be thirty feet
(30') or, at intersections including an alley, ten feet (10').
         b.   In all other zones where yards are required, the minimum distance
shall be fifteen feet (15') or at intersections including an alley, ten feet
(10'); except, that when the angle of intersection between streets other than
an alley is less than thirty degrees (30°), the distance shall be twenty five
feet (25').
         c.   Where no yards are required, the minimum distance shall be as in
subsection A3b of this section and buildings may be constructed within the
clear vision area; providing, that any portion of the structure within the
clear vision area is more than eight feet (8') above the top of the curb or
street centerline grade and is supported by not more than two (2) columns not
more than eight inches (8") in diameter.
   B.   Ground Cover Requirements: Any property in an R-1, R-2, R-3, DD or C
zone shall be paved or planted with ground cover, trees and bushes or
landscaped so as to prevent any dust blowing from the property. Such plantings
shall be in place within six (6) months after completion of the structure.
(Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-9-9: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: This section is to promote community health, safety and
welfare by protecting natural vegetation, and setting development standards for
landscaping, street trees, fences and walls. Together these elements of the
natural and built environment contribute to the visual quality, environmental
health and character of the community. Trees provide climate control through
shading during summer months and wind screening during winter. Trees and plants
can also buffer pedestrians from traffic. Walls, fences, trees and other
landscape materials also provide vital screening and buffering between land
uses. Landscaped areas help to control surface water drainage and can improve
water quality, as compared to paved or built surfaces.
   B.   Applicability: All development requiring an approval shall be required
to meet this section on landscaping.
   C.   Standards: The minimum percentage of required landscaping shall be ten
percent (10%) of the site, except in a DD zone where there is no minimum
landscape requirement.
   D.   Landscape Materials: Landscape materials include trees, shrubs, ground
cover plants, nonplant ground covers, and outdoor hardscape features, as
described below:
      1.   Natural Vegetation: Natural vegetation shall be preserved or planted
where practicable.
      2.   Plant Selection: A combination of trees, shrubs and ground covers
shall be used for all planted areas, the selection of which shall be based on
local climate, exposure, water availability, and drainage conditions. As
necessary, soils shall be amended to allow for healthy plant growth.
      3.   Invasive Plants: Invasive plants shall be prohibited.
      4.   Hardscape: Hardscape features (patios, decks, plazas, etc.) may
cover up to five percent (5%) (100 percent in DD zone) of the required
landscape area. Swimming pools, sports courts and similar active recreation
facilities may not be counted toward fulfilling the landscape requirement. (In
the DD zone hardscape features may make up 100 percent of the required
landscape area.)
      5.   Nonplant Ground Covers: Bark dust, chips, aggregate or other
nonplant ground covers may be used, but shall cover no more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the area to be landscaped.
      6.   Tree Size: Trees shall be a minimum of two and one-half inch (21/2")
caliper diameter at breast height at time of planting.
      7.   Shrub Size: Shrubs shall be planted from two (2) gallon containers
or larger.
      8.   Ground Cover Size: Ground cover plants shall be sized and spaced so
that they grow together to cover fifty percent (50%) of the underlying soil
within one to two (2) years.
      9.   Existing Vegetation: Significant vegetation which is existing may be
preserved, and may be credited toward meeting the minimum landscape area
standards. Credit shall be granted on a per square foot basis. The street tree
standards may be waived when existing trees preserved within the front yard
provide the same or better shading and visual quality as would otherwise be
provided by street trees.
      10.   Storm Water Facilities: Storm water facilities (detention/retention
ponds and swales) shall be landscaped with water tolerant, native plants.
   E.   Landscape Design Standards: All yards, parking lots and required street
tree planter strips shall be landscaped and shall meet the requirements of
section
11-9-8 of this chapter. Landscaping shall be installed with development to
provide erosion control, visual interest, buffering, privacy, open space and
pathway identification, shading and wind buffering, based on the following
standards:
      1.   Yard Setback Landscaping In C, DD, And I Zones: Landscaping shall
satisfy the following criteria:
         a.   Provide visual screening and privacy within side and rear yards;
while leaving front yards and building entrances mostly visible for security
purposes;
         b.   Use shrubs and trees as windbreaks, as appropriate;
         c.   Retain natural vegetation, as practicable;
         d.   Define pedestrian pathways and open space areas with landscape
materials;
         e.   Provide focal points within a development, such as signature
trees (large or unique trees), hedges and flowering plants;
         f.   Use trees to provide summer shading within common open space
areas, and within front yards when street trees cannot be provided;
         g.   Use a combination of plants for year long color and interest;
         h.   Use landscaping to screen outdoor storage and mechanical
equipment areas, and to enhance graded areas such as berms, swales and
detention/retention ponds.
      2.   Parking Areas: A minimum of eight percent (8%) of the combined area
of all parking areas, as measured around the perimeter of all parking spaces
and maneuvering areas, shall be landscaped. Such landscaping shall consist of
an evenly distributed mix of shade trees with shrubs and/or ground cover
plants. "Evenly distributed" means that the trees and other plants are
distributed around the parking lot perimeter and between parking bays to
provide a partial canopy. At a minimum, one tree per five (5) parking spaces
total shall be planted to create a partial tree canopy over and around the
parking area. All parking areas with more than twenty (20) spaces shall include
landscape islands with trees to break up the parking area into rows of not more
than ten (10) contiguous parking spaces. All landscaped areas shall have
minimum dimensions of five feet by five feet (5' x 5') to ensure adequate soil,
water, and space for healthy plant growth.
      3.   Buffering And Screening Required: Buffering and screening are
required under the following conditions:
         a.   Parking/Maneuvering Area Adjacent To:
            (1)   Streets And Drives: Where a parking or maneuvering area is
adjacent and parallel to a street or driveway, a decorative wall (masonry or
similar quality material), arcade, trellis, evergreen hedge, or similar screen
shall be established parallel to the street or driveway. The required wall or
screening shall provide breaks, as necessary, to allow for access to the site
and sidewalk by pedestrians via pathways. The design of the wall or screening
shall also allow for visual surveillance of the site for security. Evergreen
hedges used to comply with this standard shall be a minimum of thirty six
inches (36") in height at maturity, and shall be of such species, number and
spacing to provide the required screening within two (2) years after planting.
Any areas between the wall/hedge and the street/driveway line shall be
landscaped with plants or other ground cover. All walls shall be maintained in
good condition, or otherwise replaced by the owner.
            (2)   Building: Where a parking or maneuvering area, or driveway,
is adjacent to a building, the area shall be separated from the building by a
raised pathway, plaza, or landscaped buffer no less than three feet (3') in
width. Raised curbs, bollards, wheel stops, or other design features shall be
used to protect buildings from being damaged by vehicles. When parking areas
are located adjacent to residential ground floor living space, a landscape
buffer is required to fulfill this requirement.
         b.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment, Outdoor Storage, Service And
Delivery Areas, And Automobile Oriented Uses: All mechanical equipment, outdoor
storage manufacturing, and service and delivery areas, shall be screened from
view from all public streets and residential districts. Screening shall be
provided by one or more of the following: decorative wall (masonry or similar
quality material), evergreen hedge, nonsee-through fence, or a similar feature
that provides a nonsee-through barrier. Walls, fences, and hedges shall comply
with the vision clearance requirements and provide for pedestrian circulation.
   F.   Maintenance And Irrigation: The use of drought tolerant plant species
is encouraged, and may be required when irrigation is not available. Irrigation
shall be provided for plants that are not drought tolerant. If the plantings
fail to survive, the property owner shall replace them with an equivalent
specimen (evergreen shrub replaces evergreen shrub, deciduous tree replaces
deciduous tree). All other landscape features required by this code shall be
maintained in good condition, or otherwise replaced by the owner. (Ord. 542, 8-
11-2003)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Residential Zones
11-10-2: Commercial Zones
11-10-3: Industrial Zones
11-10-1: RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
In a residential zone, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   No sign shall be illuminated in any manner.
   B.   One name plate or home occupation sign shall be allowed and shall not
exceed four (4) square feet in area.
   C.   One sign shall be allowed per lot advertising the property for sale,
lease or rent and the sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet. A "For Sale"
sign shall not be allowed to remain on the property after the property is sold.
   D.   One sign shall be allowed per subdivision advertising lots or homes for
sale. Such sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in area and shall be
set back at least twenty feet (20') from the nearest street. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
11-10-2: COMMERCIAL ZONES:
In a commercial zone, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Signs shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any residential
property.
   B.   Moving or flashing signs are prohibited.
   C.   Total area of all signs shall not exceed one square foot per one
hundred (100) square feet of the building's ground floor area.
   D.   No sign shall project above the roof edge of the building containing
the business which the sign identifies.
   E.   Signs visible from residential properties shall be shielded or directed
so as not to constitute a nuisance to residential property owners and shall not
interfere with, confuse or mislead a vehicle operator.
   F.   No sign shall have more than ten percent (10%) of its total area for
advertising products, other than available at the establishment.
   G.   All signs not in compliance with this Chapter are nonconforming uses
and shall be subject to the requirements of Chapter 4 of this Title. (Ord. 465,
5-4-87)
11-10-3: INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
In an industrial zone, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Signs shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any residential
property.
   B.   Moving or flashing signs are prohibited.
   C.   Signs visible from residential properties shall be shielded or directed
so as not to constitute a nuisance to residential property owners and shall not
interfere with, confuse or mislead a vehicle operator.
   D.   Signs mounted on a structure shall have only one side for display and
shall be mounted flat against the face of the structure so that the sign does
not project out away from the structure.
   E.   No sign shall have more than one-sixteenth (1/16) of its total area for
advertising products other than the establishment.
   F.   All signs not in compliance with this Chapter are nonconforming uses
and shall be subject to the requirements of Chapter 4 of this Title. (Ord. 428,
8-6-79)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Exceptions
11-11-2: Accessory Uses And Facilities
11-11-3: Accessory Dwellings
11-11-4: Cluster Development Provisions
11-11-1: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Projections From Buildings: Cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades,
gutters, chimneys, flues and other architectural features may project not more
than two feet (2') into a required yard or open space as established by this
title.
   B.   Height Exceptions: The following types of structures or structural
parts are not subject to the building height limitations of this title:
chimneys, church spires, belfries, radio and television antennas, flagpoles,
smoke stacks and other similar projections.
   C.   Lot Size Exceptions: If a property ownership, whether it be a lot or
more than one contiguous lot held in a single ownership at the time of the
effective date hereof, has an area or dimension which does not meet the lot
size requirements of the zone in which the property is located, the holdings
may be occupied by a use permitted in the zone subject to the other
requirements of the zone; provided that, if there is an area deficiency,
residential use shall be limited to a single-family dwelling or to the number
of dwelling units consistent with the density requirements of the zone. The
record of ownership as recorded in the Office of the County Clerk at the
effective date hereof shall be the basis for application of this exception
unless the owner submits proof that a different ownership existed at the time
the provisions of this title became applicable to the land concerned. Setback
requirements may be reduced by utilizing the variance procedure outlined in
chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-11-2: ACCESSORY USES AND FACILITIES:
Accessory uses and facilities shall be permitted in any zone when incidental to
and associated with a permitted use or facility, or when incidental to and
associated with an allowable and authorized conditional use therein, subject to
the provisions of this section.
   A.   Accessory Uses And Facilities: Accessory uses and facilities shall meet
the following requirements:
      1.   Shall be subordinate to the primary activity of the principal use or
the principal facility, respectively.
      2.   Shall contribute to the comfort, convenience, efficiency or
necessity of the occupants or the activities of a principal use or the function
of a principal structure.
      3.   Shall be located on the same site as the principal use or structure
served.
      4.   Shall not violate setback requirements, height limitation
requirements or maximum lot coverage standards provided for in chapter 3 of
this title. (Fences are exempt from setback requirements.)
   B.   Examples: Accessory uses and facilities include, but are not limited
to, the following examples:
      1.   A home occupation is an accessory use in a residence.
      2.   A residence is an accessory use in a business.
      3.   A commercial sales office is an accessory use in an Industrial Zone.
      4.   Accessory facilities include fence, private garage, workshop,
carport, patio, deck, gazebo, tool or storage shed, playhouse, private
recreation facilities, guesthouse (no cooking facilities), temporary real
estate sales office, and small (less than 3 foot diameter) satellite dishes.
Accessory structures which would be considered a building under the Building
Codes (larger than a utility outbuilding) must be compatible in architecture
with the principal structure and have similar siding and roofing materials.
   C.   Continuation Of Allowable Accessory Use: No use or facility permitted
as an accessory use or facility pursuant to this section shall be construed to
be permitted as a principal use or facility unless specifically authorized as a
permitted or conditional use in the district in which it shall be located.
Operation, occupancy and continuance of allowable accessory uses and facilities
shall be conditional upon the continued occupancy or use of the principal use
or facility being served.
   D.   Utility Outbuildings: A utility outbuilding shall be permitted if the
following requirements are met:
      1.   A utility outbuilding shall be exempted from the setback
requirements in a Residential Zone or wherever the setbacks applicable to
Residential Zones apply. However, a utility outbuilding may not be placed
closer than five feet (5') to any lot line or five feet (5') from any other
building.
      2.   A utility outbuilding may not be placed in a front yard.
   E.   Fences, Walls, Etc.: Fences, walls, railings, or mature hedges shall
not exceed three and one-half feet (31/2') in height measured from the grade at
the property line within the required front yard, except in the case of the
clear vision area where the height shall not exceed two and one-half feet (21/
2') when measured from the top of the curb or, where no curb exists, from the
established street centerline grade. Fences on the side and rear yard shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height measured from the grade at the property line.
Security fences may be permitted which exceed the six foot (6') height through
a conditional use permit. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
11-11-3: ACCESSORY DWELLINGS:
   A.   Purpose: Accessory dwelling units (ADU) are allowed in certain
situations to:
      1.   Create new housing units while respecting the look and scale of
single-family development;
      2.   Increase the housing stock of existing neighborhoods in a manner
that is less intense than alternatives;
      3.   Allow more efficient use of existing housing stock and
infrastructure;
      4.   Provide a means for residents, particularly seniors, single parents,
and families with grown children, to remain in their homes and neighborhoods,
and obtain extra income, security, companionship and services; and
      5.   Provide a broader range of accessible and more affordable housing.
   B.   Applicability: An ADU may be located in a detached accessory structure,
an attached addition to a primary dwelling, or within a space internal to a
primary dwelling, such as a converted basement. A garage may be converted to an
ADU provided that the off-street parking requirement for the primary dwelling
unit continues to be met. ADUs are permitted subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   In the R-1 Zone, one ADU is permitted outright as an accessory use
to a permitted single-family dwelling.
      2.   In the R-2, R-3, C, and DD Zones, ADUs are permitted as follows:
         a.   One ADU may be permitted outright as an accessory use to a
permitted single-family attached or detached dwelling.
         b.   Two (2) ADUs may be permitted on the same lot as a permitted
single-family attached or detached dwelling if one ADU is in a detached
accessory structure and the other ADU is either internal to the house or in an
addition attached to the house, and the lot has a minimum area of five thousand
(5,000) square feet. An application for a second ADU on a single lot must be
reviewed as an administrative action.
         c.   One detached ADU is permitted outright as an accessory use to a
duplex if the lot has a minimum area of five thousand (5,000) square feet. An
application for an ADU on a lot with an existing duplex must be reviewed as an
administrative action.
      3.   In the C and DD Zones, one ADU is permitted outright as an accessory
use to an existing non-conforming single-family dwelling.
   C.   Development Standards: In addition to the applicable standards in the
zoning district, ADUs must meet the following development standards.
      1.   Drainage, Sanitary Sewer And Water: Adequate provision shall be made
for drainage, water and sewage waste.
      2.   City Ordinances: The ADU shall meet all applicable City ordinances.
      3.   Lot Requirements: The lot requirements (width, depth, area,
coverage, etc.) on which the primary dwelling and ADU are located shall be met.
      4.   Front Setbacks: Detached ADUs must be located behind a line
established parallel with the front building line of the primary dwelling.
      5.   Rear Setbacks: The minimum rear setback for an ADU may be reduced to
five feet (5') if the structure is less than fifteen feet (15') in height or
the rear lot line abuts an alley.
      6.   Privacy Standards: The following standards are intended to protect
the privacy of adjacent properties. Privacy standards are required along wall
(s) of a detached ADU, or portions thereof, that are within twenty feet (20')
of a side or rear lot line that faces a residential property. A detached ADU
meets the privacy standard if either of the following standards is met.
         a.   All windows on a wall are placed in the upper third of the
distance between a floor and ceiling. This standard applies to windows on
exterior doors.
         b.   Visual screening is provided along the portion of a property line
that faces the wall of the ADU, plus an additional ten (10) lineal feet beyond
the corner of the wall. The screening shall be opaque; shall be at least six
feet (6') high; and may consist of a fence, wall, or evergreen shrubs. Newly
planted shrubs shall be no less than five feet (5') above grade at time of
planting, and they shall reach six feet (6') high within one year. Existing
features on the site may be used to comply with this standard.
      7.   Maximum Size: The gross floor area of the ADU shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the gross floor area of the primary dwelling
(exclusive of garage[s] and unfinished basements) up to a maximum floor area of
eight hundred (800) square feet. All areas being used as living space shall be
counted toward the maximum allowance of eight hundred (800) square feet,
whether or not those areas were originally built or intended to be used for
habitation. In the case of a duplex, the size of the accessory dwelling unit
may be no more than seventy five percent (75%) of the living area of the
smaller of the two (2) primary units or eight hundred (800) square feet,
whichever is less. The following exceptions to this maximum size are permitted:
         a.   Basement ADUs: The total floor area of a basement of the primary
dwelling may be used as the ADU, provided the basement area does not exceed the
size of the primary dwelling.
         b.   Large Lots: On lots zoned RL that are at least ten thousand
(10,000) square feet and include an existing primary dwelling, the gross floor
area of the ADU may be up to one thousand (1,000) square feet or sixty percent
(60%) of the living area of the primary dwelling, whichever is less.
      8.   Parking: No off-street parking needs to be provided for one ADU on a
single lot, as long as the parking requirements for the primary dwelling units
are met. A second ADU on a single lot must provide one off-street parking space
in addition to the spaces required for the primary dwelling unit. If off-street
parking is provided, the parking area shall not be located within any required
front or side yard, other than existing and/or approved driveways.
      9.   Addressing: The ADU shall be legally addressed with the street
address of the primary dwelling plus the designation "Suite B". (Ord. 582-18,
10-8-2018)
11-11-4: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: A cottage cluster development is a small cluster of dwelling
units appropriately sized for smaller households and available as an
alternative to the development of typical detached single-family and two-family
homes on individual lots. Cottage cluster development is intended to address
the changing composition of households, and the need for smaller, more diverse,
and often, more affordable housing choices. Providing for a variety of housing
types also encourages innovation and diversity in housing design and site
development, while ensuring compatibility with surrounding single-family
residential development. A cottage cluster development is also intended to
maintain open space; reduce street and utility construction, and maintenance;
separate automobile traffic from residential areas; and reduce site development
and housing costs.
   B.   Description: Cluster development is a development technique wherein
house sites or structures are grouped closer together with the remainder of the
tract left in its natural state or as landscaped open space. Clustering can be
carried out in the context of a major or minor partition, subdivision, or
through a conditional use. It differs from a planned development in that it may
be done on a smaller site, does not necessarily have a mixture of housing types
and uses, and is done in a unit, rather than planned phases. Cluster
developments may incorporate single-family structures and their associated
uses. Steep slopes, stream banks or other sensitive lands should remain in
their natural condition, but may be used in density calculations.
   C.   Ownership And Parcelization: Cottage cluster developments may be sited
on one commonly owned parcel with individual cottages owned in a condominium,
cooperative, or similar arrangement, or cottages may be on individual lots with
shared amenities and facilities owned in common. Applicants must submit proof
that a homeowners' association or other long-term management agreement will be
established to ensure the maintenance of development elements in common
ownership.
   D.   Standards: Cottage cluster developments are subject to the following
standards:
      1.   Density: Cottages may be built up to the density established for
cottage cluster development in the underlying zone.
      2.   Number Of Cottages: A cottage cluster development is composed of
four (4) to twelve (12) dwelling units.
      3.   Cottage Design, Placement And Orientation: The cottages in a cottage
cluster development are subject to the following standards:
         a.   Maximum Floor Area: The gross floor area of each cottage shall
not exceed one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet.
         b.   Maximum Footprint: The footprint of each cottage unit shall not
exceed eight hundred (800) square feet, or one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet including a garage. A communal garage or parking structure is
permitted, and is not subject to the maximum footprint requirements for
cottages.
         c.   Average Size: The average size of all dwellings combined within a
cottage cluster development will be less than one thousand fifty (1,050) square
feet.
         d.   Maximum Height: The height of each cottage shall be the same as
required by the underlying zoning and applicable overlay zoning.
         e.   Placement: If cottages differ in size, smaller cottages shall be
located adjacent to or in closer proximity than larger cottages to the adjacent
public street or River Trail to which the development is oriented.
         f.   Setbacks: The setbacks from adjacent property lines along the
perimeter of the cottage cluster development shall be the same as required by
the underlying zone. The minimum distance between all structures, including
accessory structures, shall be in accordance with Building Code requirements
(at least 6 feet spacing between buildings).
         g.   Private Open Space: Each cottage may have private open space for
the exclusive use of the cottage residents. Private open space does not count
towards the required common open space.
         h.   Orientation Of Cottages: Cottages shall be clustered around the
common open space. Each cottage shall have a primary entrance and covered porch
oriented to the common open space. All cottages shall be within ten feet (10')
from the common open space, measured from the facade of the cottage to the
nearest delineation of the common open space. Lots in a cottage cluster
development are not required to abut a public right-of-way, except that the
parent parcel shall have frontage on a public right-of-way.
         i.   Public Street Facing Facades: Cottages abutting a public right-
of-way shall have a secondary entrance or a porch, bay window, or other major
architectural feature oriented to the public right-of-way. Garage or carport
entrances may not face a public right-of-way.
         j.   Porches: Each cottage shall have a covered open porch that shall
be oriented toward the common open space and that shall be at least six feet
(6') in depth measured perpendicular to the abutting building facade and at
least sixty (60) square feet in area.
      4.   Community Buildings: Cottage cluster developments may include
community buildings that provide space for accessory uses such as community
meeting rooms, guest housing, exercise rooms, day care, or community eating
areas. They shall have a footprint of no more than eight hundred (800) square
feet and may not exceed one story in height. Their design, including the roof
lines, shall be similar to and compatible with that of the cottages within the
cottage cluster development.
      5.   Common Open Space: Cottage cluster developments shall have a common
open space in order to provide a sense of openness and community of residents.
Common open space is subject to the following standards:
         a.   Each cottage cluster development shall contain a minimum two
thousand (2,000) square feet of common open space regardless of the number of
cottages in the cluster, and not less than four hundred (400) square feet of
common open space per cottage.
         b.   The common open space shall be in a single, contiguous, useable
piece.
         c.   Cottages shall abut the common open space on at least two (2)
sides of the open space.
         d.   The design of the common open space shall not use unusable lot
area or protections to meet the requirement for common open space. Unusable lot
area includes, but is not limited to, foundation landscaping, enlarged or
enhanced parking strips or sidewalks, narrow strips of land, or small dead
zones of the lot.
         e.   Parking areas, required yards, private open space, and driveways
do not qualify as common open space.
         f.   Provisions for the long-term maintenance of open space shall be
provided through a homeowners' association or other legal instrument.
      6.   Parking: Parking for a cottage cluster development is subject to the
following standards:
         a.   Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces: Cottage cluster developments
shall have at least one parking space for each unit with a gross floor area of
seven hundred (700) square feet or less and 1.5 parking spaces for each unit
with a gross floor area of seven hundred one (701) square feet or more (rounded
up to the nearest whole number).
         b.   Guest Parking: Cottage cluster developments shall have at least
0.5 additional guest parking spaces for each cottage in the development,
rounded up to the nearest whole number. These spaces shall be clearly
identified as being reserved for guests.
         c.   Reduction In Number Of Required Parking Spaces: The required
number of guest parking spaces may be reduced by the number of on-street
parking spaces on public streets adjacent to and immediately abutting the
cottage cluster development.
         d.   Clustering And Parking Structures: Parking areas may be arranged
in clusters limited to no more than five (5) contiguous spaces. Clustered
parking areas may be covered. Up to two (2) carriage house dwelling units are
permitted on the second floor of a parking structure, with a maximum of one
carriage house dwelling unit per four (4) cottages (rounded to the nearest
whole number). Parking structures may or may not be located on the same lot as
the cottage they serve. Parking structures shall not be located within a common
open space and are required to be screened from view from common open space
areas.
         e.   Parking Access: Parking areas shall be accessed only by a private
driveway or public alley. No parking space may access a public street directly.
No parking space may be between a public street and cottages abutting the
public street.
         f.   Design: The design of garages, carports, and parking structures,
including the roof lines, windows, and trim, shall be similar to and compatible
with that of the cottages within the cottage cluster development.
         g.   Screening: Landscaping or architectural screening at least three
feet (3') tall shall separate parking areas and parking structures from the
common area and public streets. Solid fencing (e.g., board, cinder block) shall
not be allowed as an architectural screen.
         h.   Location: Parking can be grouped and located on a separate lot
within one hundred feet (100') of an edge of the cottage cluster development.
      7.   Frontage, Access, And Walkways:
         a.   Frontage: The parent parcel shall have frontage on a public
street. If individual lots are created within the cluster development, each lot
shall abut the common open space, but is not required to have public street
frontage.
         b.   Access: No part of any structure shall be more than one hundred
fifty feet (150'), as measured by the shortest clear path on the ground, from
Fire Department vehicle access, unless the building has a fire suppression
system.
         c.   Walkways: A cottage cluster development shall have sidewalks
abutting all public streets. A system of interior walkways shall connect each
cottage to the common open space, parking areas, private driveways, any
community buildings, the sidewalks abutting any public streets bordering the
cottage cluster development, and other pedestrian or shared use facilities.
Sidewalks abutting public streets shall meet the width requirements established
in the Heppner Engineering Design Standards, and interior walkways shall be at
least four feet (4') in width.
      8.   Interior Fences: Fences on the interior of the cottage cluster
development shall not exceed three feet (3') in height and shall not consist of
solid (e.g., board, cinder block) fencing.
      9.   Existing Structures: On a lot or parcel to be used for a cottage
cluster development, an existing detached single- family dwelling that may be
nonconforming with respect to the requirements of this section may remain, but
the extent of its non-conformity may not be increased. Such dwellings shall
count towards the number of cottages allowed in the cottage cluster
development.
      10.   Streets: Streets and roads will not be used for density
calculations, and will conform to City standards. The decision-making body may
allow for reductions in street width where the land is steep, the street serves
a limited number of dwellings, and off-street parking requirements are met.
      11.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between this section and
other sections of this title, this section shall control.
   E.   Illustrations Of Cottage Cluster Development Layouts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/402250a5809b2b3f4c92c70e31b5e7510b0ac9a0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1031.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/402250a5809b2b3f4c92c70e31b5e7510b0ac9a0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1033.jpg]
 
(Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Form Of Petitions, Applications And Appeals
11-12-2: Public Hearings; Notice And Procedure
11-12-3: Permits To Conform With Title
11-12-4: Temporary Use Permits
11-12-5: Occupied Recreational Vehicle Parking, Except In The Downtown District
11-12-6: Appeal
11-12-7: Amendments
11-12-8: Consolidated Review Of Applications
11-12-1: FORM OF PETITIONS, APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS:
Petitions, applications and appeals provided for in this title shall be made on
forms prescribed by the City 1 . Applications shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications, drawn to scale, showing actual shape and dimensions of the lot
to be built upon; the size and locations of existing and proposed structures;
the intended use of such structures; the number of families, if any, to be
accommodated thereon; the relationship of the lot to the surrounding property;
the legal description of the lot; the location of any off street parking; the
names and addresses of owners of property within two hundred fifty feet (250')
of the exterior boundaries of the lot; and such other information as is needed
to determine conformance with this title. Applications shall be accompanied by
a filing fee in an amount established by the City Council. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. The City Recorder shall not accept the fee or the application form unless
  the entire form is completed to the required specifications.
11-12-2: PUBLIC HEARINGS; NOTICE AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Notice of public hearing on a proposed
application, petition or other decision under this title shall be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least twenty (20) days prior
to the date of the hearing. If there is no newspaper of general circulation,
notice of public hearing shall be posted in at least two (2) conspicuous places
within the City continuously beginning at least twenty (20) days prior to the
date of the hearing. Written notice shall be sent to owners of property within
two hundred fifty feet (250') of the property involved in the application,
petition or decision at least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the
hearing. All notices shall include the following provisions:
      1.   Explanation of the nature of the application, permit or decision and
the proposed use or uses which could be authorized;
      2.   A list of the applicable criteria from this title that apply to the
application or decision at issue;
      3.   The street address or other easily understood geographical reference
to the subject property;
      4.   Time and location of the hearing;
      5.   A statement that failure to raise an issue at the hearing, in person
or by letter, or failure to raise an issue accompanied by statements or
evidence sufficient to afford the Planning Commission or City Council an
opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to the Land Use Board of
Appeals based on that issue;
      6.   The name of a local government representative to contact and the
telephone number where additional information may be obtained;
      7.   A statement that a copy of the application, all documents and
evidence submitted by or on behalf of the applicant and any applicable zoning
criteria including the ordinance provisions are available for inspection at no
cost, and that copies of the same will be provided at a reasonable cost;
      8.   A statement that a copy of the staff report, if such report is
prepared, will be available for inspection at no cost at least seven (7) days
prior to the hearing and that a copy of the same will be provided at reasonable
cost;
      9.   A general explanation of the requirements for submission of
testimony and the procedure for conduct of the hearing. (Ord. 513-96, 4-8-1996)
   B.   Notice To Affected Public Agencies: All affected governmental units,
including transportation agencies and providers such as the Oregon Department
of Transportation and Morrow County, shall be notified of a public hearing on a
proposed application, petition, or other decision that is adjacent to or could
affect operation of their facilities at least twenty (20) days prior to the
date of the hearing. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
   C.   Definitions:
    ARGUMENT: Assertions and analysis regarding the satisfaction or violation
of legal standards or policy believed relevant by proponents to a decision.
Argument does not include facts.
   EVIDENCE: Facts, documents, data or other information offered to demonstrate
compliance or noncompliance with standards believed by the proponent to be
relative to the decision.
   D.   Submission Of Documents: An applicant for a decision under this title
shall submit all required documents and evidence to the Planning Commission
twenty (20) days prior to the date of the hearing to afford the public a chance
to review the documents and evidence.
   E.   Failure To Receive Notice: Failure of the property owner to receive
notice as prescribed in this title shall not impair the validity of the
hearing, provided the Planning Commission or Council can demonstrate, by
affidavit, that notice was given. The notice provision of this title shall not
restrict the giving of notice by other means including newspaper publication,
radio or television.
   F.   Public Hearing: The hearing shall allow interested citizens the
opportunity to be heard and to present and rebut evidence. All issues which may
be the basis for appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals shall be raised not
later than the close of the record. All issues shall be raised accompanied by
statements or evidence sufficient to afford the Planning Commission or City
Council and the parties in attendance at the hearing an opportunity to respond
to each issue. At the commencement of a hearing under this title, the Planning
Commission Chairperson or Council Chairperson shall make a statement to those
in attendance including the following:
      1.   A list of the applicable substantive criteria;
      2.   Testimony in evidence must be directed toward the applicable
criteria or other criteria in this title which the person believes to apply to
the decision;
      3.   Failure to raise an issue accompanied by statements or evidence
sufficient to afford the commission or Council and the parties at the hearing
an opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to the Land Use Board
of Appeal based on that issue.
   G.   Recessing, Continuing And Reopening A Hearing:
      1.   Prior to the conclusion of the initial evidentiary hearing any
participant may request an opportunity to present additional evidence or
testimony regarding the application. The Planning Commission shall grant such
request by continuing the public hearing pursuant to subsection G2 of this
section or leaving the record open for a period of time for additional written
evidence or testimony pursuant to subsection F3 of this section.
      2.   If the Planning Commission grants a continuance, the hearing shall
be continued to a date, time and place certain at least seven (7) days from the
date of the initial evidentiary hearing. An opportunity shall be provided at
the continued hearing for persons to present and rebut new evidence and
testimony. If new written evidence is submitted at the continued hearing, any
person may request, prior to the conclusion of the continued hearing that the
record be left open for at least seven (7) days to submit additional written
evidence or testimony for the purpose of responding to the new written
evidence.
      3.   If the Planning Commission leaves the record open for additional
written evidence or testimony, the record shall be left open for at least seven
(7) days. Any participant may file a written request with the local government
for an opportunity to respond to new evidence submitted during the period the
record was left open. If such a request is filed, the hearings authority shall
reopen the record pursuant to subsection G6 of this section.
      4.   A continuance or extension granted pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the limitations of Oregon Revised Statutes 227.178 (the 120 day
rule) unless continuance or extension is requested or agreed to by the
applicant.
      5.   Unless waived by the applicant, the Planning Commission shall allow
the applicant at least seven (7) days after the record is closed to all other
parties to submit final written arguments in support of the application. The
applicant's final submittal shall be considered part of the record, but shall
not include any new evidence.
      6.   When the Planning Commission reopens a record to admit new evidence
or testimony, any person may raise new issues which relate to the new evidence,
testimony or criteria for decision making which apply to the matter at issue.
   H.   Notice To Applicant Of Action: Within ten (10) days following the close
of a hearing, the City Recorder shall provide the applicant with a written
notice of the Planning Commission's action on the application, the findings of
fact on which the action is based and any conditions imposed, signed by the
Chairman and Secretary of the Planning Commission.
   I.   Final Decision: Local government shall render a final decision on a
permit or zone change within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the
application is completed unless the parties have agreed to mediation. (Ord.
513-96, 4-8-1996; amd. Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
11-12-3: PERMITS TO CONFORM WITH TITLE:
No permit shall be approved by the City for the construction, reconstruction,
alteration or change of use of a structure or lot that does not conform to the
requirements of this title. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
11-12-4: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:
The Planning Commission may issue a temporary use permit to allow the short
term use of a site by a mobile or temporary structure or activity. Such
structures or activities may not be ordinarily allowed in the particular zone,
but are necessary for some useful purpose and, because of the temporary nature,
will not adversely impact the neighborhood or City. The Planning Commission may
require that certain measures be taken to protect neighboring uses or the City
as a whole. Application for a temporary use permit shall be made on forms
provided by the City. Temporary use permits may be granted for any period of
time up to one year, subject to renewal if necessary. Before the Planning
Commission may act on a temporary use application or any renewal thereof, it
shall hold a public hearing following the procedure prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 428, 8-6-1979; amd. Ord. 496-92, 11-9-1992)
11-12-5: OCCUPIED RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING, EXCEPT IN THE DOWNTOWN
DISTRICT:
   A.   Occupied recreational vehicles may be parked, without a permit, upon a
private lot in a Residential Zone, with the landowner's permission, for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days upon the following conditions:
      1.   There shall be no more than one occupied recreational vehicle per
lot;
      2.   The recreational vehicle shall have self-contained sewer and water
facilities and the owner of the recreational vehicle shall have made
appropriate arrangements to use an approved sewer dumping station. Under no
circumstances shall the recreational vehicle empty its sewage into the sewer
line which serves the lot where the recreational vehicle is parked;
      3.   The owner of the lot shall not charge for the parking of the
recreational vehicle; and
      4.   The parking of the vehicle is necessary for some useful purpose and
will not adversely impact the neighborhood or City. The City Manager or
Planning Commission may require certain measures to be taken to protect
neighboring uses or the City as a whole.
   B.   Parking of an occupied recreational vehicle in a Nonresidential Zone or
for more than thirty (30) days in a Residential Zone may be allowed under the
following conditions:
      1.   The owner of the lot where the recreational vehicle will be parked
shall make application to permit the recreational vehicle. The application
shall be submitted to City Hall prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) days
if the lot is a Residential Zone or prior to the parking of the recreational
vehicle on the lot if the zone is nonresidential. The lot owner's signature on
the application will act as a certification that the owner is responsible for
compliance with this title for any recreational vehicle parked on his or her
lot.
      2.   All requirements of subsection A of this section shall be met.
      3.   A need for the permit is demonstrated that is acceptable to the City
Manager. The Planning Commission may, from time to time, adopt policies to
guide the City Manager in determining need.
      4.   The application must state the length of time for which the permit
is needed. The application, if for more than thirty (30) days (not counting the
30 days allowed under subsection A of this section), shall be considered as an
application for a temporary use permit pursuant to section
11-12-4 of this chapter and a Planning Commission hearing pursuant to section
11-12-4 of this chapter will be held. In such case, the property owner shall
also comply with all requirements of this title for temporary use permits.
   C.   The fee for the application shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) unless the
application is considered for a temporary use permit. If a temporary use permit
is needed, the fee is fifty dollars ($50.00) in addition to the twenty dollar
($20.00) application fee.
   D.   This section shall not apply to recreational vehicles using an approved
recreational vehicle park.
   E.   Violation of this section shall be considered a violation of this
title. The owner of the lot upon which the recreational vehicle is parked is
responsible for meeting the requirements of this title.
   F.   Under no circumstances shall an occupied recreational vehicle be parked
on a lot for more than one year unless the required temporary use permit is
renewed prior to its expiration.
   G.   The application for the permit shall include:
      1.   Name and address of the owner of the lot;
      2.   Name and address of the occupant of the recreational vehicle;
      3.   Location and zoning of the lot where the recreational vehicle is to
be located;
      4.   A statement of the need for the permit;
      5.   Written consent of the property owner;
      6.   A plan showing where water is to be obtained and sewage disposed of;
      7.   A description of the recreational vehicle; and
      8.   The length of time for which the permit is needed. (Ord. 542, 8-11-
2003)
11-12-6: APPEAL:
   A.   Decision To Appeal: An action or ruling of the Planning Commission
authorized by this title may be appealed to the City Council within fifteen
(15) days after the commission has mailed notice of its decision by filing
written notice with the City Recorder. If no appeal is taken within the fifteen
(15) day period, the decision of the Planning Commission is final. If appeal is
taken, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council,
which shall hold a public hearing, as provided in section
11-12-2 of this chapter on the appeal before making a decision. (Ord. 428, 8-6-
1979)
   B.   Raising Objection: No appeal may be taken under this section unless the
person appealing has raised an objection at the Planning Commission hearing on
the action or ruling from which the appeal is taken. The objection may be
written, oral or in some manner calculated to make the Planning Commission
aware of the objection prior to any action or ruling taken. (Ord. 439, 5-3-
1980)
11-12-7: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authorization To Initiate Amendments: An amendment to the text of this
title or to a zone boundary may be initiated by the City Council, the City
Planning Commission, an affected governmental agency or by application of a
property owner. The request by a property owner for an amendment shall be
accomplished by filing an application with the City Recorder. The City will
comply with Oregon Revised Statutes 227.178. A decision on a complete permit
application will be rendered within one hundred twenty (120) days of the
submittal. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979; amd. Ord. 465, 5-4-1987)
   B.   Public Hearings On Proposed Amendment: A public hearing shall be held
by the Planning Commission with the public notice given as provided in section
11-12-2 of this chapter, on any proposed amendment to this title, at its
earliest practicable meeting after the amendment is proposed. The Planning
Commission shall, within forty (40) days after the hearing, recommend to the
City Council approval, disapproval or conditional approval of the proposed
amendment. After receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
City Council shall hold a public hearing, as provided in section
11-12-2 of this chapter on the proposed amendment before making a decision.
   C.   Record Of Amendments: The City shall maintain a record of amendments to
the text and maps of this title in a form convenient for use by the public.
   D.   Limitation On Reapplication: No application of a property owner for an
amendment to the text of this title or to a zone boundary shall be considered
by the Planning Commission within the one year period immediately following a
previous denial of such request, except the Planning Commission may permit a
new application if in the opinion of the Planning Commission new evidence or a
change of circumstances warrants it. (Ord. 428, 8-6-1979)
11-12-8: CONSOLIDATED REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS:
When an applicant applies for more than one type of land use or development
permit for the same one or more contiguous parcels of land, the proceedings
shall be consolidated for review and decision. When proceedings are
consolidated, required notices may be consolidated, provided the notice shall
identify each application to be decided. When more than one application is
reviewed in a hearing, separate findings and decisions shall be made on each
application. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
CHAPTER 13
INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-13-1: Interpretation
11-13-2: Authorization of Similar Uses
11-13-3: Penalty
11-13-4: Severability
11-13-1: INTERPRETATION:
Words used in the present tense include the future, the singular form includes
the plural, the plural includes the singular. Where a provision of this Title
is less restrictive than a provision of another ordinance or requirement of the
City, the provision which is more restrictive shall govern. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
11-13-2: AUTHORIZATION OF SIMILAR USES:
The Planning Commission may rule that a use not specifically listed among the
allowed uses in a zone shall be permitted as an allowed use, if it is similar
to the allowed uses in the zone, if its effect on adjacent properties is
substantially the same as that of allowed uses, and if it is not specifically
listed as an allowed use in another zone. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
11-13-3: PENALTY:
   A.   A person violating a provision of this Title shall, upon conviction, be
assessed a Class A infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. A violation of this Title shall be considered a separate
offense for each day that the violation continues.
   B.   In the alternative, where a use exists or is proposed to be located,
constructed, repaired, altered or used in violation of this Title, the City may
institute injunction, abatement or other appropriate proceedings to prevent,
abate or remove such use. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79; 1995 Code)
11-13-4: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this Title are severable. If an article, sentence, clause or
phrase shall be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
the decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Title. (Ord. 428, 8-6-79)
CHAPTER 14
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Definitions
11-14-2: Initiation Of Proceedings
11-14-3: Project Report; Content
11-14-4: Notice Of Hearing
11-14-5: Objections To Proposed District
11-14-6: Hearing On Objections To Proposed District
11-14-7: District Boundary Modification
11-14-8: Method Of Assessment; Payment Of Costs
11-14-9: Assessment Report
11-14-10: Hearing On Proposed Assessments
11-14-11: Alternative Methods Of Financing
11-14-12: Appeals
11-14-13: Recordation Of Liens And Collection Of Assessments
11-14-14: Authority To Abandon Proceedings
11-14-15: Validity Of Assessments
11-14-16: Adoption Of "Bancroft Bonding Act"
11-14-17: Interest Rates
11-14-18: Segregation Of Assessments; Fees
11-14-19: Reassessment
11-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise:
ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator of the city of Heppner.
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT: A. The grading, graveling, paving or other surfacing of any
street, or opening, laying out, widening, extending, altering, changing the
grade of or constructing any street.
   B.   The construction or reconstruction of sidewalks.
   C.   The installation of ornamental streetlights.
   D.   The installation of underground wiring or related equipment.
   E.   The reconstruction or repair of any street improvement mentioned in
this definition.
   F.   The construction, reconstruction or repair of any sanitary or storm
sewer, or water main.
   G.   The construction, reconstruction, installation and equipping of a park,
playground or city recreation facility.
   H.   Any other local improvement for which an assessment may be made on the
property specially benefited.
LOT: Lot, block, or parcel of land.
OWNER: The owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of
real property of record as shown on the last available complete assessment roll
in the office of the county assessor.
RECORDER: The city recorder for the city of Heppner. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-2: INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Whenever the city council deems it expedient to perform any local
improvement for which it is anticipated that special assessments will be
levied, it shall, by resolution, declare its intention to initiate such
improvement and direct that an engineering study of such project be made and
that a written project report containing the information in section
11-14-3 of this chapter be filed with the recorder.
   B.   Whenever the city of Heppner has expended funds for the construction of
any local improvement and subsequently the city council deems it expedient to
initiate a local improvement district in order to levy special assessments
against the property benefited by such local improvement, it shall, by
resolution, declare its intention to initiate such improvement district and
direct that the final plans of this public improvement as constructed together
with a written project report containing the information specified in section
11-14-3 of this chapter be filed with the recorder.
   C.   Whenever the owners of fifty one percent (51%) of the abutting property
propose a local improvement over an area at least one hundred (100) yards in
length or serving an area of at least one hundred (100) square yards and desire
to form themselves into an improvement district for the purpose of
accomplishing such improvement they may, by written petition filed with the
administrator, request the council to declare by resolution the intent of the
council to initiate such improvement and to direct the preparation of the study
as specified in subsection A of this section. The council, if satisfied that
the petition is signed by owners of at least fifty one percent (51%) of the
property owned within the proposed district specified in the petition, shall
pass the requested resolution unless, by a vote of at least two- thirds (2/3)
of the councilors present, the council deems it not in the public interest to
comply with the petition.
   D.   No improvements shall be approved under this section unless the total
assessed valuation of property within the proposed district exceeds twice the
estimated cost of the improvements, unless the affected property owners arrange
for alternate security in an amount found by the council sufficient to protect
the city in the event of default by property owners on local improvement
district bonds. Security can be in the form of lines of credit, mortgages, or
other security sufficient to guarantee payment in the event of default. (Ord.
528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-3: PROJECT REPORT; CONTENT:
The written project report required by section
11-14-2 of this chapter shall contain the following information:
   A.   A full description of the project and its boundaries. Project plans and
specifications shall be prepared but need not be filed with the report.
   B.   An estimate of the probable cost of such project (or a statement of the
actual cost if the project has been completed) including legal, administrative,
construction interest, and engineering costs attributable thereto.
   C.   A map of the proposed local improvement district.
   D.   A recommended method of assessment.
   E.   A description of each lot, or portion thereof, specially benefited by
the project with the name and address of the owner thereof, as shown by the
last assessment roll of the county.
   F.   The assessed valuation and estimated amount of assessment of each lot
or portion thereof specially benefited, together with any unpaid assessments
against each lot.
   G.   The construction financing interest rate then currently in effect and
the number of the resolution establishing that rate. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-4: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Promptly after the filing of the written project report as required by section
11-14-2 of this chapter, the recorder shall:
   A.   Cause a notice to be published for a period of two (2) successive
publications in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The notice
shall state the following:
      1.   That the written project report is on file and may be examined at
city hall;
      2.   The date the written project report was filed;
      3.   The estimated probable cost of the proposed improvement or the
actual cost of the improvement if it has been completed;
      4.   A description of the proposed improvement district and that a
preliminary map of the proposed district may be examined at city hall;
      5.   The time and place of the hearing required by section
11-14-6 of this chapter including a statement that oral objections will be
considered at such hearing, but shall not be counted as part of the written
remonstrance requirement necessary to suspend the project for six (6) months
pursuant to section
11-14-5 of this chapter; and
      6.   That all persons wishing to formally remonstrate against the
formation of the district must present their remonstrance in writing in the
time and manner set forth in section
11-14-5 of this chapter for them to be considered remonstrances.
   B.   Not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing required by section
11-14-6 of this chapter, mail to each property owner designated in the written
engineering report a notice stating:
      1.   The information set forth in subsection A of this section;
      2.   The recommended method of assessment;
      3.   The estimated amount of assessment for each lot or portion thereof
owned by the owner and whether the assessments are being levied prior to
construction based upon estimates of project cost or after construction based
upon known costs;
      4.   The construction financing interest rate currently in effect and the
number of the resolution establishing that rate; and
      5.   The specific procedure for filing remonstrances as provided in
section
11-14-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Post a copy of the preliminary map of the proposed improvement district
at city hall. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-5: OBJECTIONS TO PROPOSED DISTRICT:
   A.   Objections by property owners within the proposed district to the
formation of the proposed improvement district must be in writing, and filed
with the recorder not later than the close of business the day of the hearing
set forth in section
11-14-6 of this chapter. Any proposal to levy and collect any special
assessment under this chapter shall be suspended for six (6) months upon
written remonstrance of two-thirds (2/3) of the owners of property to be
assessed.
   B.   Oral objections will be considered at the hearing provided in section
11-14-6 of this chapter. However, oral objections shall not be counted for the
purpose of suspending the project as provided in subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-6: HEARING ON OBJECTIONS TO PROPOSED DISTRICT:
   A.   After the filing of the written engineering report, but not less than
fifteen (15) days after the date of the first publication of notice pursuant to
section
11-14-4 of this chapter, the council shall hold a hearing to consider any
objections to the proposed improvement district and authorize the formation of
the district and initiation of the project if it is so desired.
   B.   After considering any written remonstrances filed and any testimony
relating to the proposed district, the city may, by resolution adopt, amend and
adopt, or reject the written project report. The council may require a
supplementary or further report from the administrator. If the council chooses
to adopt, or amend and adopt the report, the resolution setting forth that
determination shall at a minimum:
      1.   Form the local improvement district, assign it a number, and
establish its boundaries, subject to later change pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Determine the time and manner of construction. The council may
provide that the city will do the work or any portion of the work itself.
      3.   Direct that the project be commenced.
      4.   Establish a special account for the receipt and disbursal of monies
relating to the project.
      5.   Establish the method of assessment, subject to change pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
      6.   Place a pending lien upon the benefited property specified in the
written project report as adopted. The pending lien shall be recorded in the
same manner as the final assessment lien provided in section
11-14-13 of this chapter.
      7.   Establish the construction financing interest rate applicable to the
district. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-7: DISTRICT BOUNDARY MODIFICATION:
   A.   At any time the council may determine that the boundaries of a district
which has been formed should be modified to include new property benefited by
the improvement or exclude property determined not to be benefited.
   B.   The council shall accomplish boundary modifications by amending the
resolution which formed the district.
   C.   Prior to adoption of the amending resolution the council shall hold a
hearing on the boundary modification. Notice of the hearing shall be given as
provided by section
11-14-4 of this chapter.
   D.   The right of property owners to remonstrate against the proposed
modification is the same as defined in section
11-14-5 of this chapter for the formation of a district. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-
2000)
11-14-8: METHOD OF ASSESSMENT; PAYMENT OF COSTS:
The council may:
   A.   Use any just and reasonable method of determining the extent of any
improvement district that is consistent with the benefits derived.
   B.   Authorize payment by the city of all or any part of the cost of such
improvement; provided the method selected creates a reasonable relation between
the benefits derived by the property specially benefited and the benefits
derived by the city as a whole.
   C.   Use any method of apportioning the sum to be assessed among the
properties determined to be specially benefited that is just and reasonable.
   D.   At any time prior to the effective date of the ordinance levying the
assessments for any district, modify the method adopted in the resolution
forming the district if the council determines that a different method is a
more just and reasonable method of apportioning the cost of the project to the
properties benefited. The time limitation established by this subsection does
not apply to reassessment proceedings pursuant to section
11-14-19 of this chapter and the method of assessment may be modified as a part
of such proceedings. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-9: ASSESSMENT REPORT:
   A.   As soon as the total cost of the project is ascertained, the
administrator shall prepare an assessment report on the project, including a
recommendation concerning the fair apportionment to the properties specially
benefited within the assessment district of the total actual cost, including
legal, administrative, construction interest, and engineering costs
attributable to the project and a recommendation concerning the Bancroft
installment financing rate applicable to the project.
   B.   A map of the assessment district showing the proposed assessments of
each lot or portion of land therein shall be posted in the city hall and a
notice published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city for two
(2) successive weeks stating that the proposed assessments are on file at city
hall and requiring all persons having objections to the proposed assessments to
present their objections at a meeting of the council which shall be held not
less than fifteen (15) days after first publication of such notice.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the recorder to send by mail postpaid to each
of those designated in the report of the administrator a notice which sets
forth that the map showing the proposed assessments is on file in city hall,
the amount of the proposed assessment on a lot or portion of a lot owned by
such persons, the recommended Bancroft installment financing rate and requiring
objections to the proposed assessments to be presented to the city council at
the time specified in the published notice. The notices which are required to
be mailed shall be placed in the mail not less than ten (10) days prior to the
date set for the meeting of the council to hear objections to the proposed
assessments. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-10: HEARING ON PROPOSED ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   When the council, after hearing objections to the proposed assessments,
has ascertained what it deems to be a fair, just and proper assessment of
benefits to the property it determines to be specially benefited, it shall pass
an ordinance specifying in detail such assessments and setting the Bancroft
installment financing rate applicable to the district.
   B.   If the council at such hearing deems it just and proper to increase the
amount of any proposed assessment it shall fix a time for a further hearing on
such increase. The recorder shall send notice by mail to each owner shown on
the administrator's final report, stating the purpose of the further hearing
and giving the date of the hearing.
   C.   After such further hearing, the council may pass an ordinance assessing
such increase, and if at the time of such further hearing, the ordinance
specifying in detail the final assessments has not yet been passed, the council
at that time shall pass such an ordinance levying the final assessments and
setting the financing interest rate.
   D.   Promptly after passage of the ordinance levying the final assessments,
the city recorder shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city, a notice that such ordinance has been passed and
that application for bonding the assessments will be received for thirty (30)
days after the effective date of the ordinance. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-11: ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF FINANCING:
When, in the opinion of the council, on account of topographical or physical
layout, unusual or excessive public travel, or other character of work involved
or when the council otherwise believes the situation warrants it, it may
contribute what it deems a fair proportion of the cost of such improvement from
general funds of the city, and the amount to be assessed to the property
benefited shall be proportionately reduced. Nothing contained in this chapter
shall preclude the council from using other available means of financing
improvements, including federal or state grants in aid sewer service or other
types of service charges, revenue bonds, general obligation bonds, or other
legal means of finance. In the event any of such other means of financing are
used the council may, in its discretion, levy special assessments pursuant to
this chapter to cover any part of the costs of the improvement not covered by
such means. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-12: APPEALS:
Owners of any property against which an assessment or reassessment for local
improvements has been imposed may seek a review thereof under the provisions of
Oregon Revised Statutes 34.010 to 34.102 as now enacted or as may be amended in
the future. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-13: RECORDATION OF LIENS AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS:
The council, at the time of passing the ordinance levying the final assessment
or at any time thereafter, shall by resolution or ordinance direct the city
recorder to enter in the docket of city liens the respective amounts assessed
upon each particular tract or parcel of land with the names of the record
owners thereof. Upon such entry in the lien docket, the amounts so entered
shall be immediately due and payable and shall be a lien and charge upon the
respective lots, tracts, and parcels of land against which the same are placed.
Such liens shall be first and prior to all other liens except as otherwise
provided by law. The Bancroft installment financing interest rate applicable to
the district shall be charged on all amounts not paid within thirty (30) days
from the date of such entry. After thirty (30) days from the date of entry in
the lien docket, the city may proceed to foreclose as delinquent any lien which
is unpaid or for which arrangements for payment have not been made. The
delinquent assessment payment interest rate shall be charged to such sums due.
Foreclosure may be in any manner authorized by state statutes for the
foreclosure of assessment liens. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-14: AUTHORITY TO ABANDON PROCEEDINGS:
The city council shall have full power and authority to abandon and rescind
proceedings for projects pursuant to this chapter at any time prior to the
final consummation of such proceedings. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-15: VALIDITY OF ASSESSMENTS:
No assessment made pursuant to this chapter shall be invalid by reason of a
failure to give, in any report, in the proposed assessment, in the ordinance
making the assessment, in the lien docket or elsewhere in the proceedings, the
name of the owner of any lot, tract or parcel of land or the name of any person
having a lien upon or interest therein, or by a mistake in the name of any such
person, or the entry of a name other than the name of such owner or other
person having a lien upon or interest therein, or by a mistake in the name of
any such person or the entry of a name other than the name of such owner or
other person having a lien upon or interest in such property, or by reason of
any error, mistake, delay, omission, irregularity, or other act, jurisdictional
or otherwise, in any of the proceedings or steps hereinbefore specified, unless
it appears that reasonable notice has not been given of the hearing upon the
proposed assessment or that the assessment as made, insofar as it affects the
person complaining, is unfair and unjust, and the council shall have power and
authority to remedy and correct all such matters by suitable action and
proceedings. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-16: ADOPTION OF "BANCROFT BONDING ACT":
Except for matters modified in this chapter, the provisions of Oregon Revised
Statutes 223.205 to 223.295, which are known as the "Bancroft bonding act", are
hereby adopted and made a part hereof by reference. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-17: INTEREST RATES:
   A.   Interest on funds expended by the city in connection with the
construction or financing of a local improvement shall be charged. There is
established for the purpose of computing interest the following distinct
interest rate classifications:
      1.   Construction Financing: Interest charged for construction financing
begins the date the first funds are expended in connection with a project and
ends on the sixtieth day after acceptance of the project by city.
      2.   Bancroft Installment Financing: Interest charged to property owners
choosing to pay the assessment in installments under the Bancroft bonding act
procedures whose accounts are kept current. Bancroft installment financing
interest shall not exceed the rate of the actual or expected bond interest rate
plus 1.5 percent.
      3.   Delinquent Assessment Payment: Interest charged to property owners
choosing to pay the assessment in installments under Bancroft bonding
procedures who fail to pay two (2) consecutive installment payments. This
interest rate will be assessed beginning the day after the due date of the
second installment payment. The interest due will be computed at this
delinquent rate on the entire principal balance and this rate will continue to
be charged until all outstanding billings are paid in full. This interest rate
is also charged to those property owners not choosing to pay in installments
that have not paid pursuant to section
11-14-13 of this chapter. For such accounts the rate begins on the thirty first
day after entry of the assessment in the lien docket and is computed from the
original date of entry in the lien docket.
   B.   The council shall, by resolution, establish the interest rate
applicable to each classification identified in subsection A of this section.
Such interest rate shall not exceed the maximum allowed by any applicable law.
In the event that the rate established is found to exceed such legal maximum
then that maximum shall be used as the applicable rate until the resolution
establishing rates is revised. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-2000)
11-14-18: SEGREGATION OF ASSESSMENTS; FEES:
Whenever an application has been made under the provisions of section
11-14-16 of this chapter (and the Bancroft bonding act as therein adopted), and
the application has been accepted and the payment of the assessment has been in
fact financed by such procedure, the lien of such assessment may be segregated
upon the following terms and conditions:
   A.   The property for which the segregation is to be made shall have been
assessed as a unit and entered accordingly in the docket of liens.
   B.   There shall be no delinquent installments of principal or interest on
the assessment of the entire parcel.
   C.   Written application shall be made to the city in such form as may be
required, and such applications shall be accompanied by the fees established as
provided below.
   D.   If the administrator determines that the lien may be segregated and
divided without prejudice to the overall security of the entire balance owed,
he shall establish an equitable division of the assessment based upon the
original assessment formula and the preservation of the security interest. Such
segregation shall describe the various parcels of the entire tract and the
amount of the assessment to be apportioned to each parcel. The administrator
may require that the portion of the assessment segregated and apportioned to a
particular parcel be paid in full before the remaining parcels shall be
relieved of liability for payment of that portion of the lien.
   E.   If application is approved and the fees paid, the administrator shall
certify the facts to the city recorder. Thereupon, upon compliance with any
conditions of payment, the city recorder shall cause appropriate entries to be
made in the docket of liens segregating the total assessment. When such entries
are made, the lien shall thereby be segregated and divided, and shall
constitute a lien only in the amounts and as to the parcels thereby provided.
In order to help defray the costs of investigation, preparing legal
descriptions, calculating an equitable division of the assessment and making
lien docket entries, the city council may by resolution establish and from time
to time amend a schedule of fees to be paid with any application filed under
this section. Such fees shall not be refundable if the application is
disapproved or the applicant withdraws his application. (Ord. 528-2000, 6-12-
2000)
11-14-19: REASSESSMENT:
Whenever all or part of an assessment or reassessment for any local improvement
is declared void or set aside for any reason, or its enforcement refused by any
court, whether directly or by any decision of such court and whenever the
council shall be in doubt as to the validity of such assessment or
reassessment, the council may make a new assessment. The reassessment
procedures for making the new assessment shall insofar as possible follow the
same procedures as provided for making an initial assessment as set forth in
this chapter. The new assessment shall not be limited to the amounts included
in the original assessments, nor shall it be limited to the property embraced
in the original assessment if the council finds that additional property is
specially benefited and subject to assessment. Credit shall be allowed on the
new assessment for any payments made on the original assessment, such payments
to be credited as of the date of payment. Interest on the original assessments
may be included in the new assessment to the extent that the new assessment
includes amounts also included in the original assessment; or if the council
deems it more equitable to do so, it may include as part of the overall
assessable project costs interest, not exceeding the construction financing
interest rate in effect and applicable to the district at the time of the
original proceedings in connection with the district, on monies paid by the
city in connection with the construction or financing of the project. (Ord.
528-2000, 6-12-2000)
CHAPTER 15
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
11-15-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-15-2: Approval Criteria
11-15-3: Submittal Requirements
11-15-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to:
      1.   Provide rules, regulations and standards for efficient and effective
administration of site development review;
      2.   Carry out the development pattern and plan of the city and its
comprehensive plan policies;
      3.   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
      4.   Lessen or avoid congestion in the streets, and secure safety from
fire, flood, pollution and other dangers;
      5.   Provide adequate light and air, prevent overcrowding of land, and
facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water supply, sewage and
drainage;
      6.   Encourage the conservation of energy resources;
      7.   Encourage efficient use of land resources, full utilization of urban
services, mixed uses, transportation options, and detailed, human scaled
design; and
      8.   Ensure compliance with the zoning code. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
   B.   Applicability: Site plan review shall be required for all new
developments and modifications of existing developments, except that regular
maintenance, repair and replacement of materials (e.g., roof, siding, awnings,
etc.), parking resurfacing, and similar maintenance and repair shall be exempt.
Site plan review by the planning commission shall be used for all new
developments and modifications of existing developments that require a
conditional use or variance under this title. A development review is required
for all other site plan reviews.
      1.   Site Plan Review By The Planning Commission: "Site plan review by
the planning commission" is a discretionary review conducted by the planning
commission with a public hearing. (See chapter 12 of this title for review
procedure.) Site plan review ensures compliance with the basic development
standards of the land use district (e.g., building setbacks, lot coverage,
maximum building height), as well as the more detailed design standards and
public improvement requirements.
      2.   Development Review: "Development review" is a nondiscretionary or
"ministerial" review conducted by the city manager without a public hearing.
(See chapter 12 of this title for review procedure.) Development review is
based on clear and objective standards and ensures compliance with the basic
development standards of the land use district, such as building setbacks, lot
coverage, maximum building height, and similar provisions. (Ord. 555-05, 6-11-
2005)
11-15-2: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
   A.   All applications must comply with the applicable provisions of this
title, title 12 of this code, the requirements of the Oregon state structural
specialty code and fire and life safety code, the requirements of the city's
fire zones and all state and county requirements.
The lot area shall be adequate to meet the needs of the establishment. (Ord.
542, 8-11-2003)
   B.   Prior to issuance of building permits, the following standards shall be
met:
      1.   The proposed land use is permitted by the underlying land use
district.
      2.   The land use, building/yard setback, lot area, lot dimension,
density, lot coverage, building height and other applicable standards of the
underlying land use district and any subdistrict(s) are met;
      3.   All applicable building and fire code standards are met; and
      4.   The approval shall lapse, and a new application shall be required,
if a building permit has not been issued within one year of site review
approval, or if development of the site is in violation of the approved plan or
other applicable codes.
   C.   Upon receiving a development request and information, the city manager
or authorized individual shall review the request to determine if:
      1.   The road system is designed to meet the projected traffic demand at
full build out and the functional roadway classification standards are
consistent with the proposed use.
      2.   Access points are properly placed in relation to sight distance,
driveway spacing, and other related considerations, including opportunities for
joint or crossover access. Entry roads should be clearly visible from the
local, collector, or arterial street.
      3.   The frontage of dwelling units is located on interior local streets
rather than collectors or arterials when possible.
      4.   Traffic movement within the site is provided without the need to use
the peripheral road network.
      5.   The road system provides adequate access to buildings for residents,
visitors, deliveries, emergency vehicles, and garbage collection.
      6.   The pedestrian path system links buildings with parking areas,
entrances to the development, open space, and recreational and other community
facilities (addresses the requirements of the transportation planning rule).
      7.   The site plan provides for potential future crossover or
consolidated access, and/or alternative access.
      8.   The city manager shall require the applicant to sign and record an
access or crossover easement where applicable, prior to issuing final approval.
      9.   A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a
transportation facility if it:
         a.   Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility;
         b.   Changes standards implementing a functional classification
system;
         c.   Allows types or levels of land use that would result in levels of
travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
transportation facility; or
         d.   Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the
minimum acceptable level identified in the transportation system plan.
      10.   All site plans shall clearly show how the site's internal
pedestrian and bicycle facilities connect with external existing or planned
facilities or systems. Sheltered bicycle parking may be located within a
garage, storage shed, basement, utility room or sheltered under an eave,
overhang, or independent structure or similar cover. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003; amd.
Ord. 555-05, 6-11-2005)
11-15-3: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Plan Required: A site plan shall be required for all zoning
permits and for all variance and conditional use permits. The site plan shall
conform to the following standards and contain the following information:
      1.   The site plan shall be drawn to scale with the scale identified on
the plan. The site plan should be drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The plot should show property boundaries,
existing and proposed land uses, existing and proposed transportation
facilities, and any other pertinent information that would help identify how
the proposed use is compatible with the transportation system. The city manager
shall (where applicable) refer the request to other agencies or individuals for
their review and comment.
      2.   Plat map showing property lines, existing and required right of
ways, and ownership of abutting properties.
      3.   The plan shall show all property lines and relationship to adjacent
property.
      4.   The plan shall include any existing structures on the property and
indicate the setback distances from the property lines.
      5.   Existing utilities on, or adjacent to the property shall be
indicated.
      6.   The location of any adjacent right of way and the name of such right
of way if applicable.
      7.   Any existing easements on the property.
      8.   Location of existing and proposed parking and loading facilities
including accessible spaces.
      9.   Location of existing and proposed fences along with their heights
and type of materials.
      10.   Building elevations, both existing and proposed.
      11.   Access information when access permit is required:
         a.   Vehicle access points, accessways and spacing of accesses in
relation to adjacent property access and on both sides of the road within five
hundred feet (500') in each direction for driveway requests on arterials and
three hundred feet (300') on collector streets.
         b.   Distances to neighboring constructed public access points, median
openings, traffic signals, intersections, and other transportation features on
both sides of the property including the section of roadway between the nearest
upstream and downstream collector.
         c.   Number and direction of site access driveway lanes to be
constructed, as well as internal signing and striping plan.
         d.   All planned transportation features on the local transportation
system (such as auxiliary lanes, signals, etc.).
         e.   Trip generation data or appropriate traffic studies, if
applicable.
         f.   A detailed description and justification of any requested access
variances.
      12.   Parking and internal circulation plan.
      13.   Existing and proposed walkways and sidewalks.
      14.   The location and size of any existing and proposed signs.
      15.   Landscaping, both existing and proposed.
      16.   Drainage provisions for all impervious surfaces.
      17.   Any wells, cisterns, septic tanks, or underground storage tanks
shall be shown on the plan. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 16
REAL PROPERTY COMPENSATION
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose
11-16-2: Definitions
11-16-3: Claim Filing Procedures
11-16-4: City Manager Investigation And Recommendation
11-16-5: City Council Public Hearing
11-16-6: City Council Action On Claim
11-16-7: Processing Fee
11-16-1: PURPOSE:
This real property compensation chapter is intended to implement the provisions
added to chapter 197 of Oregon Revised Statutes by ballot measure 37 (November
2, 2004). These provisions establish a prompt, open, thorough and consistent
process that enables property owners an adequate and fair opportunity to
present their claims to the city; preserves and protects limited public funds;
and establishes a record of the city's decision capable of circuit court
review. (Ord. 549-04, 12-13-2004)
11-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases mean:
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Heppner, or his or her designee.
CLAIM: A claim filed under ballot measure 37.
EXEMPT LAND USE REGULATION: A land use regulation that:
   A.   Restricts or prohibits activities commonly and historically recognized
as public nuisances under common law;
   B.   Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public health
and safety, such as fire and building codes, health and sanitation regulations,
solid or hazardous waste regulations, and pollution control regulations;
   C.   Is required in order to comply with federal law;
   D.   Restricts or prohibits the use of property for the purpose of selling
pornography or performing nude dancing; or
   E.   Was enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by the
owner or a family member of the owner who owned the subject property prior to
acquisition or inheritance by the owner, whichever occurred first.
FAMILY MEMBER: Includes the wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father,
brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in- law, daughter-in-law,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent,
stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, an estate
of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or
combination of these family members or the owner of the property.
LAND USE REGULATION: Includes:
   A.   Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest therein;
   B.   Administrative rules and goals of the land conservation and development
commission;
   C.   Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, land division
ordinances, and transportation ordinances;
   D.   Metropolitan service district regional framework plans, functional
plans, planning goals and objectives; and
   E.   Statutes and administrative rules regulating farming and forest
practices.
OWNER: The present owner of the property, or any interest therein.
VALID CLAIM: A claim submitted by the owner of real property that is subject to
a land use regulation adopted or enforced by the city of Heppner that restricts
the use of the private real property in a manner that reduces the fair market
value of the real property. (Ord. 549-04, 12-13-2004)
11-16-3: CLAIM FILING PROCEDURES:
   A.   A person seeking to file a claim under this chapter must be the present
owner of the property that is the subject of the claim at the time the claim is
submitted. The claim shall be filed with the city manager's office, or another
city office if so designated by the city manager.
   B.   A claim shall include:
      1.   The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of all owners and
anyone with any interest in the property, including lienholders, trustees,
renters, lessees, and a description of the ownership interest of each;
      2.   The address, tax lot, and legal description of the real property
that is the subject of the claim, together with a title report issued no more
than thirty (30) days prior to the submission of the claim that reflects the
ownership interest in the property, or other documentation reflecting sole
ownership of the property by the claimant, and the date the property was
acquired;
      3.   The current land use regulation(s) that allegedly restricts the use
of the real property and allegedly causes a reduction in the fair market value
of the subject property;
      4.   The amount of the claim, based on the alleged reduction in value of
the real property supported by an appraisal by an appraiser licensed by the
appraiser certification and licensure board of the state of Oregon; and
      5.   Copies of any leases or covenants, conditions and restrictions
(CCRs) applicable to the real property, if any, that impose restrictions on the
use of the property.
   C.   Notwithstanding a claimant's failure to provide all of the information
required by subsection B of this section, the city may review and act on a
claim. (Ord. 549-04, 12-13-2004)
11-16-4: CITY MANAGER INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Following an investigation of a claim, the city manager shall forward a
recommendation to the city council that the claim be:
      1.   Denied;
      2.   Investigated further;
      3.   Declared valid, and waive or modify the land use regulation, or
compensate the claimant upon completion of an appraisal; or
      4.   Evaluated with the expectation of the city acquiring the property by
condemnation.
   B.   If the city manager's recommendation is that a claim be denied, the
city manager shall send a notice of the denial to all elected officials of the
city. If no elected official informs the city manager within fourteen (14) days
that the official disagrees, then the city manager may deny the claim. If an
elected official objects, then the city manager shall wait an additional seven
(7) days to see whether two (2) or more elected officials object to the
proposed denial. If they do, then the city manager shall schedule a work
session with the city council. If not, the city manager may deny the claim.
(Ord. 549-04, 12-13-2004)
11-16-5: CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING:
The city council shall conduct a public hearing before taking final action on a
recommendation from the city manager. Notice of the public hearing shall be
provided to the claimant, to owners and occupants of property within three
hundred feet (300') of the perimeter of the subject property, and neighborhood
groups or community organizations officially recognized by the city council
whose boundaries include the subject property. (Ord. 549-04, 12-13-2004)
11-16-6: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON CLAIM:
   A.   Upon conclusion of the public hearing, and prior to the expiration of
one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the claim was filed, the city
council shall:
      1.   Determine that the claim does not meet the requirements of measure
37 and this chapter, and deny the claim; or
      2.   Adopt a resolution with findings therein that supports a
determination that the claim is valid and either direct that the claimant be
compensated in an amount set forth in the resolution for the reduction in value
of the property, or remove, modify or direct that the challenged land use
regulation not be applied to the property.
   B.   The city council's decision to waive or modify a land use regulation or
to compensate the owner shall be based on whether the public interest would be
better served by compensating the owner or by removing or modifying the
challenged land use regulation with respect to the subject property. (Ord. 549-
04, 12-13-2004)
11-16-7: PROCESSING FEE:
The city manager shall maintain a record of the city's costs in processing a
claim, including the costs of obtaining information required by section
11-16-3 of this chapter which a property owner does not provide to the city.
Following final action by the city on the claim at the local level, the city
manager shall send to the property owner a bill for the actual costs, including
staff and legal costs, that the city incurred in reviewing and acting on the
claim. (Ord. 549-04, 12-13-2004)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purposes
12-1-3: Authority
12-1-4: Jurisdiction
12-1-5: Enactment
12-1-6: Severability
12-1-7: Amendments
12-1-8: Variances
12-1-9: Exceptions In Case Of Planned Unit Development
12-1-10: Appeal
12-1-11: Violation And Penalties
12-1-12: Schedule Of Fees
12-1-13: Definitions
12-1-14: Surveying Required
12-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF HEPPNER, OREGON. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-2: PURPOSES:
The purpose of this title is to provide for the public health, safety and
general welfare of the people of the city by establishing uniform procedures
and standards for the partitioning and subdividing of land within the city.
These regulations are necessary to:
   A.   Guide the future development of the city in accordance with the
comprehensive plan 1 ;
   B.   Ensure that public facilities, including, but not limited to,
sanitation systems, water supply systems, streets and fire protection are
adequate to serve the subdivided or partitioned area; and
   C.   Protect and conserve land throughout the city by providing for its most
beneficial use and enhancement of the quality of the environment. (Ord. 542, 8-
11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
12-1-3: AUTHORITY:
By authority of ordinance of the council of the city adopted pursuant to the
powers and jurisdiction vested by Oregon Revised Statutes, chapter 92, and
other applicable laws of the state, the city shall review, approve and
disapprove plans, plats and maps for the subdivision and partitioning of land
within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all "subdivisions" and
"partitions of lands", as defined herein, located within the corporate limits
of the municipality.
   B.   The city shall review and comment on plans, plats or maps for
subdivisions or partitions beyond the corporate limits of the city and within
the urban growth boundary. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-5: ENACTMENT:
In order that land may be subdivided and partitioned in accordance with these
purposes and policy, these regulations are hereby adopted. (Ord. 542, 8-11-
2003)
12-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section, or other part
of these regulations is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, this
judgment shall affect only that part held invalid and shall not impair the
validity of the remainder of these regulations. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-7: AMENDMENTS:
An amendment to this title may be initiated by the city council, planning
commission or by application of a property owner or resident in the city. The
procedure to be followed for adoption of the proposed amendment shall be that
prescribed by Oregon Revised Statutes 92.048. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-8: VARIANCES:
   A.   The city council may authorize variances, with conditions, to the
requirements of this title. Application for a variance shall be made by a
petition of the land divider, stating fully the grounds of the application and
the facts relied upon by the petitioner. The petition shall be filed with the
tentative plan or map. A variance may be granted only in the event that all of
the following circumstances exist:
      1.   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property
which do not apply generally to other properties in the same vicinity and
result from tract size or shape, topography or other circumstances over which
the owners of the property have no control.
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation of a property right
of the applicant substantially the same as possessed by owners of other
property in the same vicinity.
      3.   The variance would not be materially detrimental to the purposes of
this title or to property in the same vicinity in which the property is located
or otherwise conflict with the comprehensive plan.
   B.   In granting or denying a variance, the city council shall make a
written record of its findings and the facts in connection therewith, and shall
describe the variance granted and the conditions designated. The city shall
keep the findings on file as a matter of public record.
   C.   The planning commission may authorize variances for minor partitions
under the same conditions and following the same procedures set forth in
subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-9: EXCEPTIONS IN CASE OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
(Reserved for Planned Unit Development.)
12-1-10: APPEAL:
A person may appeal to the city council from any decision or requirement made
by the planning commission, city engineer, or the city recorder pursuant to
this title. Written notice of the appeal must be filed with the city within
thirty (30) days after the decision or requirement is made in the case of
subdivision, minor partition, or major partition, pursuant to Oregon Revised
Statutes 92.044(2) and 92.046(3). (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-11: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Every final subdivision plat and partition plat must be approved
pursuant to this title and the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes chapter
92, before title to the land can be sold or transferred in any manner. If land
is transferred or sold contrary to the provisions of this title, the city
attorney shall commence action to enjoin further sales or transfers and to
compel compliance with its provisions. The costs of maintaining this suit shall
be imposed against the person transferring or selling the property to be
subdivided or partitioned.
   B.   In addition to penalties provided by state law, any person violating or
failing to comply with a provision of this title shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a class A civil infraction as provided in section
1-4-1-5 of this code. The procedure for disposition of civil infractions is set
forth in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Every sale or transfer of a parcel of
land in violation of this title shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense. Each day a violation of this title continues shall be considered a
separate offense. In addition, the city will not give zoning approval on any
application for a building permit to be issued by the state as to any piece of
property owned by a person in violation of the provisions of this title. (Ord.
542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-12: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A.   Any application or submission required by this title shall be
accompanied by a filing fee based on the fee schedule adopted by the city
council.
   B.   No application required by this title shall be accepted unless
accompanied by all applicable fees. Fees shall be set by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
12-1-13: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and phrases shall mean:
ACCESSWAY: A means of access primarily for pedestrian and bicycle use to
provide passage between street or other destinations. They should be ten foot
(10') of pavement within a twenty foot (20') right of way and be used for
emergency vehicular access when required. The remaining area within the right
of way shall be landscaped.
APPROVAL: A. Tentative: The official action taken by the city council after a
public hearing on the proposed subdivision or partition.
   B.   Final: The final official action taken by the city council on the
proposed subdivision or partition which had previously received tentative
approval.
BUILDING LINE: A line on a plat or map indicating the limit beyond which
buildings or structures may not be erected subject to setback requirements in
the city's zoning ordinance 1 .
CITY: The city of Heppner, Oregon.
CITY ENGINEER: A registered professional engineer as defined by Oregon Revised
Statutes 672.002(6), who is legally contracted to represent the city.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 2 : The generalized, coordinated land use map and policy
statement of the city that interrelates all functional and natural systems and
activities relating to the use of land and adopted pursuant to Oregon Revised
Statutes 197, adopted by LCDC July 10, 1980, and all subsequent periodic
reviews.
DEDICATION: A deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for some public use
and accepted for such use by or on behalf of the public.
EASEMENT: A right to use for a specific purpose a particular piece of land
owned by another.
LOT: A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.
   A.   Corner Lot: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets;
provided, the interior angle of such intersection does not exceed one hundred
thirty five degrees (135o).
   B.   Reversed Corner Lot: A corner lot, the side street line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front line of the first lot to its rear.
   C.   Through Lot: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets other than alleys.
LOT LINE: A. Lot Front Line: The line abutting a street. On corner lots, the
front line is that with the narrowest street frontage. For double frontage
lots, the lot front line is that having frontage on a street which is so
designated by the developer and approved as part of a final plat or map as
provided for in this title.
   B.   Lot Line Rear: The lot line that is opposite to and most distant from
the front lot line.
   C.   Lot Side Line: Any lot line that is not a lot front or rear line.
PARCEL: A unit of land that is created by a partitioning of land.
PARTITION: An area or tract of land divided into two (2) or three (3) parcels
within a calendar year, when this area or tract of land exists as a unit or
contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the beginning of that
year.
   A.   Major Partition: A partition which includes the creation of a street.
   B.   Minor Partition: A partition that does not include the creation of a
street but which is subject to approval of the city under this title.
Partition does not include:
   A.   Divisions of land resulting from lien foreclosures, or foreclosure of a
recorded contract for the sale of real property;
   B.   Divisions of land resulting from the creation of cemetery lots;
   C.   Divisions of land made pursuant to a court order, including, but not
limited to, court orders in proceedings involving testate or intestate
succession; or
   D.   Any adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary
where an additional parcel is not created and where the existing parcel reduced
in size by the adjustment is not reduced below the minimum lot standards of the
zoning ordinance 3 .
   E.   The division of land resulting from the recording of a subdivision or
condominium plat.
   F.   A sale or grant by a person to a public agency or public body for a
state highway, county road, city street or other right of way purposes,
provided that such road or right of way complies with the applicable
comprehensive plan and Oregon Revised Statutes 215.213 (2)(p) to (2)(r) and
215.283 (2)(p) to (2)(r). However, any property divided by the sale or grant or
property for a state highway, county road, city street or other right of way
purposes shall continue to be considered a single unit of land until such time
as the property is further subdivided or partitioned.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way for pedestrian traffic.
PERSON: A natural person, firm, partnership, associate, social or fraternal
organization, corporation, trust, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch of
government or any group or combination acting as a unit.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Heppner, Oregon.
PLAT: The final map, diagram, drawing, replat or other writing containing all
the descriptions, location, specifications, dedications, provisions and
information required by this title concerning a subdivision or major partition.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, water main, oil or gas
pipe line, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or by another special use.
ROADWAY: The portion of a street right of way developed for vehicular traffic.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrian walkway with permanent surfacing.
SKETCH PLAN: A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the tentative
subdivision plan to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the city as to the form of the plan and the objectives
of these regulations.
STREET: A public or private right of way for the use of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including the terms "road", "highway", "lane", "avenue", "alley" or
similar designations.
Alley: A narrow street through a block primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on another street.
Arterial: A street of considerable continuity which is primarily a traffic
artery for travel between large areas.
Collector: A street supplementary to the arterial street system and a means of
travel between this system and smaller areas, used to some extent for through
traffic and to some extent for access to abutting properties.
Cul-De-Sac: A short street having one end open to traffic and being terminated
by a vehicle turnaround.
Half Street: A portion of the width of a street, usually along the edge of a
subdivision, where the remaining portion of the street could be provided in
another subdivision.
Marginal Access Street: A minor street parallel and adjacent to a major
arterial street providing access to abutting properties, but protected from
through traffic.
Minor Street: A street intended primarily for access to abutting properties.
SUBDIVISION: An area or tract of land divided into four (4) or more lots within
a calendar year when this area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous
units of land under a single ownership at the beginning of that year.
TENTATIVE PLAN: A preliminary map, drawing or chart of the subdivision,
dedication or portion thereof, containing the elements and requirements set
forth within this title and which the subdivider submits for tentative approval
at a public hearing.
URBAN GROWTH AREA: Land between the corporate limits of the city and the urban
growth boundary.
URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY: The boundary designated in the city's comprehensive plan
identifying and separating urbanizable land from rural land. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-
1996; amd. Ord. 542, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
3 1. See title 11 of this code.
12-1-14: SURVEYING REQUIRED:
An applicant for any subdivision or partition will survey as required by Oregon
Revised Statutes chapter 92. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION AND PARTITION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Subdivisions
12-2-2: Major Partitions
12-2-3: Minor Partitions
12-2-1: SUBDIVISIONS:
Before any permit for the erection of any structure in a proposed subdivision
is granted and before any contract for sale of any part thereof is made, the
subdividing owner or his authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval
of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Discussion Of Requirements: Before preparing the sketch plan as
required in subsection B below, the applicant shall discuss with the City
Engineer the procedure for adoption of a subdivision plat and the improvement
requirements provided for in this Title.
   B.   Sketch Plan: Prior to subdividing land, an owner of land or his
representative shall file an application for approval of a sketch plan.
Specifications for sketch plan documents are given in Section
12-5-1 of this Title.
      1.   Application Requirements: The application shall:
         a.   Be made on forms available from the City.
         b.   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner, with an indication
of the portion which is proposed to be subdivided. It shall also be accompanied
by an affidavit of ownership, which shall include the dates the respective
holdings of land were acquired, together with the book and page of each
conveyance to the present owner as recorded in the County Clerk's office. The
affidavit shall list the legal owner of the property, the contract owner of the
property, the date contract of sale was executed and, if any corporations are
involved, a complete list of all directors, officers and stockholders of each
corporation owning more than five percent (5%) of any class of stock.
         c.   Be accompanied by a minimum of five (5) copies of the sketch plan
as described in these regulations and complying in all respects with these
regulations, and shall be submitted to the City Recorder at least five (5) days
prior to a regular Planning Commission meeting.
         d.   Be accompanied by the appropriate fee, based on the fee schedule
adopted by the City Council.
         e.   If the applicant is not a resident of Morrow County, the
application shall include an address and telephone number of an agent located
within Morrow County who shall be authorized to receive all notices required by
this Title.
      2.   Planning Commission Review Of Sketch Plan: At its next regular
meeting, the Planning Commission shall study the sketch plan, taking into
consideration the requirements of the subdivision regulations and the best use
of the land being subdivided. Particular attention must be given to the
arrangement, location and width of streets, their relation to the topography of
the land, water supply, sewage disposal, drainage, lot sizes and arrangement,
the further development of adjoining lands as yet unsubdivided and the
requirements of the Comprehensive Plan 1 .
      3.   Approval Of Sketch Plan: Within thirty (30) days after the Planning
Commission reviews the sketch plan, it shall advise the applicant of the
specific changes or additions, if any, it will require in the layout, and the
character and extent of required improvements and reservations which it will
require as a prerequisite to the approval of the tentative subdivision plan.
The Planning Commission or City Council may require additional changes as a
result of further study of the tentative plan of the subdivision. Approval of
the sketch plan authorizes the applicant to submit a tentative plan.
      4.   Notice To Governmental Units: All affected governmental units shall
be notified of the approval of the sketch plan and shall be given a reasonable
period of time to review the plan and to suggest revisions in the public
interest prior to the public hearing on the tentative plan.
   C.   Tentative Plan:
      1.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Based upon the approval of
the sketch plan, the applicant shall file, in duplicate, an application for
approval of a tentative plan. Specifications for tentative plan documents are
given in Section
12-5-2 of this Title. The application shall:
         a.   Be accompanied by a minimum of five (5) copies of the tentative
plan, as described in Section
12-5-2 of this Title, and submitted to the City Recorder at least thirty (30)
days prior to a regular Planning Commission meeting.
         b.   Be made on forms available from the City, together with
appropriate fee, based on the fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
         c.   Include all land which the applicant proposes to subdivide, and
if the subdivision pertains to only a part of the tract owned or controlled by
the subdivider, then the applicant shall also include a sketch of a tentative
layout for streets in the unsubdivided portion.
         d.   Comply in all respects with the sketch plan, as approved.
      2.   Preliminary Review By City Engineer: Upon receipt of the application
for tentative plan approval, the City Recorder shall furnish one copy of the
application to the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall review the tentative
plan and prepare a preliminary report to present to the Planning Commission at
its hearing on the tentative plan.
      3.   Planning Commission Review: The Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing to review the tentative plan and the preliminary report of the
City Engineer.
      4.   Notice And Opportunity To Be Heard:
         a.   Notice:
            (1)   Procedure: The City Recorder shall give notice of the public
hearing in the following manner:
               (A)   Newspaper: Notice shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City, at least twenty (20) days in advance of
the public hearing.
               (B)   Mail: At least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing,
notice of the hearing shall be sent by first class mail to:
                  (i) The applicant and all record owners and contract
purchasers of real property within one hundred feet (100') of the property
which is the subject of the proposed action, and
                  (ii) All affected governmental units which have an interest
in the proposed subdivision.
            (2)   Content: The public notices shall contain the following:
               (A)   Date, time and place of public hearing.
               (B)   General description of the action proposed on the
subdivision application.
               (C)   Address, including lot and block number, if any, of the
property to be subdivided.
               (D)   Notice by mail shall also include an eight and one-half
inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") diagram of the property to be subdivided to
be provided by the applicant indicating its location relative to adjacent
property owners within one hundred feet (100') and at least two (2) clearly
marked public streets.
               (E)   Notice of public hearings shall include:
                  (i) A statement that failure to raise an issue at the
hearing, in person or by letter, or failure to provide sufficient specificity
to afford the planning commission or city council an opportunity to respond to
the issue precludes appeal to the land use board of appeals based on that
issue;
                  (ii) The name of a local government representative to contact
and the telephone number where additional information may be obtained;
                  (iii) A statement that a copy of the application, all
documents and evidence relied upon by the applicant, and any applicable zoning
and subdivision criteria including the ordinance provisions are available for
inspection at no cost, and that copies of the same will be provided at
reasonable cost; and
                  (iv) A general explanation of the requirements for submission
of testimony and the procedure for conduct of the hearing.
         b.   Public Hearing:
            (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
tentative plan within forty five (45) days of the date of submission of the
tentative plan to the City Recorder.
            (2)   If necessary, the Planning Commission may resolve to continue
the public hearing, giving the date, time and place the hearing will be
continued.
      5.   Planning Commission Recommendation: Within fourteen (14) days after
Planning Commission review, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation
to the City Council.
      6.   City Council Review: The City Council shall review the tentative
plan after receiving the Planning Commission's recommendation and the City
Engineer's report.
      7.   Action On Tentative Plan:
         a.   Within fifteen (15) days following the City Council review of the
tentative plan, the City Council shall give written notice to the applicant of
approval, disapproval or conditional approval of the tentative plan. Approval
shall be indicated by the signature of the Mayor on the plan.
         b.   One copy of the tentative plan shall be returned to the developer
with the date of approval, conditional approval or disapproval with the
findings and conclusions upon which the City Council's decision was based
accompanying the plan.
      8.   Effective Period Of Tentative Approval:
         a.   The approval of a tentative plan for a subdivision shall be
effective for one year.
         b.   Any plan not receiving final approval within one year shall be
null and void, and the developer must submit a new tentative plan for approval,
subject to all current zoning restrictions and land division regulations.
      9.   Construction: Tentative plan approval allows the developer to
proceed with construction plans including construction of improvements and
submission of the final subdivision plat, pursuant to the effective period of
the tentative plan, (subsection C8 above). If required improvements are not
completed prior to application for final plat approval, a guarantee of
financial security as required by Chapter 3 of this Title shall accompany the
application for final plat approval.
   D.   Final Subdivision Plat:
      1.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Within one year of the
approval of the tentative plan, the applicant, in order to receive final
approval of the subdivision plat, shall file with the City Council an
application according to the specifications of Section
12-5-3 of this Title. In addition, the application shall:
         a.   Be made on forms supplied by the City, together with the
appropriate fee, based on the fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
         b.   Include the entire subdivision or section thereof, access to
which is via an existing State, County or local government highway.
         c.   Be accompanied by a minimum of ten (10) copies of the subdivision
plat, as described in Section
12-5-3 of this Title.
         d.   Comply in all respects with the tentative plan, as approved.
         e.   Be presented to the City Recorder, who shall then refer the
application to the City Council prior to the next regular meeting of the City
Council at which consideration is desired.
         f.   Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to
the public of all streets, local government uses, utilities, parks and
easements without any reservation other than reversionary rights upon vacation
of any such street or road and easements for public utilities, pursuant to ORS
92.090(3).
         g.   Be accompanied by a performance bond or other assurance for
completion and maintenance of improvements, as specified in Chapter 3 of this
Title, and which includes a provision that the principal of the bond or other
guarantee of financial security shall comply with all the terms specified by
the City Council as a condition of approval of the final subdivision plat.
         h.   Be accompanied by written assurance from public utility companies
and improvement districts that necessary utilities will be installed and by
proof that the applicant has submitted petitions, in writing, for the creation
or extension of any improvement districts, as required by the City Council,
upon tentative plan approval.
      2.   Review Of Application:
         a.   Public Meeting: The Planning Commission shall review the
applications at the next regular Planning Commission meeting following
submission of the application for final plat approval. Such a review shall be
conducted at a public meeting. In order to be considered at the next meeting,
the application must be submitted at least ten (10) working days before the
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission.
Within fourteen (14) days after the Planning Commission review, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council. Such
recommendations shall also contain a recommendation to approve or deny the
final plat as well as written findings of facts and conclusions.
         b.   City Engineer: The application for final plat approval and
accompanying documents shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and affected
governmental units to determine whether it substantially conforms to the
tentative plan, the requirements of law and this Title. The City Engineer may
make such checks in the field as are desirable to verify that the subdivision
plat is sufficiently correct on the ground and he or his representatives may
enter the property for this purpose. If the City Engineer determines that the
final subdivision plat does not so conform to the tentative plan, the
requirements of law and this Title, then he shall advise the applicant of the
changes that must be made and shall afford the applicant an opportunity to make
the changes or additions.
         c.   City Council: Upon receipt of the plat with the approval of the
City Engineer, the City Council shall consider the application at a regularly
scheduled meeting. Within ten (10) days of the meeting, the City Council shall
approve, disapprove or conditionally approve the application, setting forth in
detail any conditions of approval or reasons for disapproval.
         d.   Final Resolution: The final resolution of the City Council
approving the application shall stipulate the period of time when the
performance bond or other guarantee of financial security shall be filed or the
required improvements installed, whichever is applicable. It shall also contain
the written findings of fact and conclusions of law which it relied upon in
reaching its decision. One copy of the final subdivision plat or major
partition map, signed by the Mayor, shall be returned to the developer with the
date of approval, conditional approval or disapproval noted thereon, and the
reasons therefor accompanying the plat or map.
         e.   Filing Of Plat: Without delay, the subdivider shall submit the
final plat for signatures of other public officials required by the law.
Approval of the plat shall be null and void if the plat is not recorded within
ninety (90) days after the date the last required approving signature has been
obtained, or within one year of approval of the final plat or map, whichever is
sooner. Recording shall comply with all provisions of ORS chapter 92. (Ord.
512-96, 1-8-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
12-2-2: MAJOR PARTITIONS:
The procedure for approval by the City of a major partition shall be the same
as provided for in Section
12-2-1 pertaining to subdivision, except that the applicant need not file and
obtain approval of a sketch plan, procedures for which are specified in
subsection
12-2-1B of this Chapter. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-2-3: MINOR PARTITIONS:
   A.   Application Procedure And Requirements: Prior to creating a minor land
partition, an owner of land or his representative shall file with the City
Recorder an application for approval of a sketch plan. Specifications for
sketch plan documents are given in Section
12-5-1 of this Title. The application shall:
      1.   Be made on forms available from the City.
      2.   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner, with an indication of
the portion which is proposed to be partitioned. It shall also be accompanied
by an affidavit of ownership, which shall include the dates the respective
holdings of land were acquired, together with the book and page of each
conveyance to the present owner, as recorded in the County Clerk's office. The
affidavit shall list the legal owner of the property, the contract owner of the
property, the date contract of sale was executed and, if any corporations are
involved, a complete list of all directors, officers and stockholders of each
corporation owning more than five percent (5%) of any class of stock.
      3.   Be accompanied by a minimum of five (5) copies of the sketch plan,
as described in Section
12-5-1 of this Title, and comply in all respects with this Title, and shall be
submitted to the City Recorder at least five (5) days prior to a regular
Planning Commission meeting.
      4.   Be accompanied by the appropriate fee, based on the fee schedule
adopted by the City Council.
   B.   Review By City Engineer: The City Recorder, within ten (10) days of
receipt of the application, may refer the application to the City Engineer, who
shall determine if dedication of land, easements or conditions for approval of
the sketch plan are required.
   C.   Review By Planning Commission:
      1.   After receipt of the application and report by the City Engineer,
the Planning Commission shall review the application, sketch plan and the
recommendations of the City Engineer at a public hearing.
      2.   The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
standards of this title and Oregon law, and notice shall be given in accordance
with the requirements of subsection
12-2-1C4 of this Chapter.
   D.   Action On Application: The Planning Commission shall approve,
conditionally approve or deny the application for creation of a minor land
partition and state the reasons therefor within fourteen (14) days after close
of the hearing.
   E.   Approval By City Manager: The City Manager may approve an application
for a partition without a street without Planning Commission approval under the
following conditions:
      1.   The procedures set forth in subsections 12-2-3A and B of this
Section are followed.
      2.   All surveying requirements of this Title have been met.
      3.   If the City Manager grants the application, a public notice
containing the information required by subsection
12-2-1C4a(1)(E)(ii) and (iii) is mailed to all record owners and contract
purchasers of real property within one hundred feet (100') of the property
which is the subject of the proposed action and to all affected governmental
units. Additionally the notice shall state the minor partition has been granted
unless an objection is raised and received at City Hall in writing within
twenty (20) days of the date of the notice.
   F.   Planning Commission Hearing: If any objections to a proposed minor
partition are received, a Planning Commission hearing must be held at the next
regularly scheduled meeting. Any applicant for a minor partition may appeal the
denial of the application or any conditions placed upon the applicant to the
Planning Commission by requesting such a hearing in writing within twenty (20)
days of the decision. The hearing on the denial or on the conditions will be
held at the next regularly scheduled meeting after the request is received. Any
further appeal rights are those provided in this Title or by law. (Ord. 512-96,
1-8-1996)
CHAPTER 3
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Improvements And Guarantees Of Financial Security
12-3-2: Inspection Of Improvements
12-3-3: Maintenance Of Improvements
12-3-4: Deferral Or Waiver Of Required Improvements
12-3-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND GUARANTEES OF FINANCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Completion Of Improvements: Before the final subdivision plat or major
partition plat is signed by the Mayor, all applicants shall be required to
complete, in accordance with the City Council's decision and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, all the street, sanitary and other
improvements, as required in these regulations, specified in the final
subdivision plat, and as approved by the City Council and to dedicate same to
the City, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and reservations on the
property and public improvements thus dedicated.
   B.   Waiver; Assurance Of Financial Security: The City Council, in its
discretion, may waive the requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate
all public improvements prior to the signing of the subdivision plat, and that,
as an alternative, the applicant shall provide assurance of financial security
at the time of application for final subdivision approval in an amount
estimated by the applicant and determined by the City Engineer as sufficient to
secure to the City the satisfactory construction, installation and dedication
of the incomplete portion of required improvements. The guarantee of financial
security shall also secure all lot improvements on the individual lots of the
subdivision as required in these regulations, and may take the form of any of
the following:
      1.   Escrow Account: The subdivider or land partitioner shall deposit
cash, or collateral readily converted to cash at face value, either with the
governing body or in escrow with a bank. The use of collateral other than cash
and the selection of the bank with which funds are to be deposited are subject
to the approval of the City Council. Where an escrow account is to be employed,
the subdivider shall file, with the City Council, his agreement with the bank
guaranteeing the following:
         a.   That the funds in the escrow account are to be held in trust
until released by the governing body and may not be used or pledged by the
subdivider as security for any obligation during that period;
         b.   That in the event that the subdivider fails to complete the
required improvements, the bank shall immediately make the funds in escrow
available to the City for the completion of these improvements.
      2.   Property Escrow: The subdivider may offer as a guarantee land or
personal property, including corporate stocks or bonds. A qualified real estate
appraiser shall establish the value of any real property so used and in so
doing shall take into account the possibility of a decline in the value of said
property during the guarantee period. The City Council reserves the right to
reject the use, as collateral, of any property when the value of the property
is unstable, when the property may be difficult to sell or when other factors
exist which will inhibit the City Council from exchanging the property for an
amount of money sufficient to complete the required improvements. When property
is offered as an improvement guarantee, the subdivider shall:
         a.   Execute an agreement with the escrow agent, when it is not the
City, instructing the agent to release the property to the City in case of
default. The agreement shall be placed on file with the City Recorder.
         b.   File with the City Council an affidavit affirming that the
property to be used as a guarantee is free and clear of any encumbrances or
liens at the time it is to be put in escrow.
         c.   Execute and file with the City Council an agreement stating that
the property to be placed in escrow as an improvement guarantee will not be
used for any other purpose, or pledged as a security in any other matter, until
it is released by the governing body.
      3.   Special Improvement District: The City Council may enter into an
agreement with the subdivider, and the owners of the property proposed for
subdivision or partition, if other than the person subdividing or partitioning
the land, that the installation of required improvements will be financed
through a special improvement district created pursuant to Oregon law. This
agreement must provide that no lots within the subdivision or major partition
will be sold, rented or leased, and no contract for the sale of lots executed,
before the improvements district has been created. An agreement to finance
improvements through the creation of a special improvements district
constitutes a waiver by the subdivider or partitioner, or the owners of the
property, of the right to protest or petition against the creation of the
district.
      4.   Letter Of Credit: Subject to the approval of the City Council, the
subdivider or land partitioner shall provide a letter of credit from a bank or
other reputable institution or individual. This letter shall be deposited with
the governing body and shall certify the following:
         a.   That the creditor guarantees funds in amount equal to the cost,
as estimated by the subdivider or land partitioner and approved by the City
Council, of completing all required improvements.
         b.   That if the subdivider or land partitioner fails to complete the
specified improvements within the required period, the creditor will pay to the
City immediately and without further action, such funds as are necessary to
finance the completion of those improvements up to the limit of credit stated
in the letter.
         c.   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn or reduced in
amount until released by the City Council.
      5.   Surety Performance Bond: The bond shall be executed by a surety
company authorized to do business in the State and acceptable as a surety to
the City Council and countersigned by an Oregon agent. The bond shall be
payable to the City and shall be in effect until the completed improvements are
accepted by the City Council.
   C.   Cost Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be made by the
applicant, at his expense, without reimbursement by the City, except in the
case of a creation of a local improvement district as provided for in
subsection B3 of this Section.
   D.   Failure To Complete Improvement: For subdivisions or major partitions
for which guarantees of performance have not been made, if the improvements are
not completed within the period specified by the City Council in the resolution
approving the plat, the approval shall be deemed to have expired. In those
cases where a guarantee of financial security has been made and required
improvements have not been installed within the stated period of time, the City
may declare the subdivider or major land partitioner to be in default and
require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time that default is declared.
   E.   Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance
of the City Council. Unless the provisions of ORS 92.075(4) are met, any
subdivision or partition plat containing a dedication or donation of land to
public purpose shall include a declaration or consent of any holder of a
mortgage or trust deed on the involved property agreeing to the property being
submitted to the requirements of this Title. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-3-2: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General Procedure And Fees: The City Council shall provide for
inspection of required improvements during construction and ensure their
satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay to the City a fee determined
by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council to cover the actual cost
of inspection of required improvements before construction begins. This fee
shall be due and payable upon demand of the City and the final subdivision plat
or major partition map shall not be signed by the Mayor nor will the City give
zoning approval on the developer's application for a building permit issued by
the State until these and all other fees are paid. If the City Engineer finds,
upon inspection, that any of the required improvements have not been
constructed in accordance with the City's construction standards and
specifications, the applicant shall be responsible for completing the
improvements.
   B.   Certificate Of Satisfactory Completion: The City Council will not
accept dedication of required improvements, nor release or direct the release
of property or money held in escrow or the surety performance bond or letter of
credit until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all
required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the
applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified to the City Engineer, through
submission of detailed "as-built" survey plat of the subdivision, indicating
location, dimensions, materials and other information required by the City,
that the layout of the line and grade of all public improvements is in
accordance with construction plans for the subdivision or major partition and
that a title insurance policy has been furnished to and approved by the City
Attorney indicating that the improvements shall have been completed, are ready
for dedication to the local government and are free and clear of any and all
liens and encumbrances. Upon such approval and recommendation, the City Council
shall thereafter accept the improvements for dedication in accordance with the
established procedure and shall release all performance guarantees posted by
the developer as provided for in subsection
12-3-1B of this Chapter. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-3-3: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots until acceptance of said improvements by the City
Council.
   B.   The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance bond with the
City Council, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the City
Engineer and in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, in order to assure
the satisfactory condition of the required improvements, including all lot
improvements on the individual subdivided lots for a period of one year after
the date of their acceptance by the City Council and dedication of same to the
City. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-3-4: DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The City Council, giving its reasons therefor, may defer or waive, at
the time of tentative plan approval, the provision of one or more improvements
as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the public health,
safety and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because of lack of
connecting facilities.
   B.   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the City Council to defer the
construction of any improvement required herein because of incompatible grades,
future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities or for other
reasons, the applicant shall pay his share of the costs of the future
improvements to the City prior to signing of the final subdivision plat, or the
applicant may post a bond insuring the completion of said improvements upon
demand of the City. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, PRESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
SECTION:
12-4-1: Standards
12-4-2: General Improvements
12-4-3: Streets
12-4-4: Drainage And Storm Sewers
12-4-5: Water Facilities
12-4-6: Sewerage Facilities
12-4-7: Sidewalks
12-4-8: Utilities
12-4-9: Public Uses; Parks, Playgrounds And Recreation Areas
12-4-10: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
12-4-11: Bicycle Routes
12-4-12: Nonresidential Subdivisions
12-4-13: Tables
12-4-1: STANDARDS:
Improvement design standards for improvements required herein are listed either
in the narrative or in table 12 and figures 16 through 20 of the Transportation
System Plan. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
12-4-2: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision or major partitions shall
comply with the following laws, rules and regulations:
      1.   The City's Comprehensive Plan 1 , Zoning Ordinance 2 , Capital
Improvement Program and other applicable City ordinances.
      2.   All applicable Oregon Statutes and administrative rules.
      3.   The requirements of the State Highway Division if the subdivision or
partition or any lot contained therein abuts a State highway or connecting
street.
      4.   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision or partition is not
in conformity with the above guides or policy and purposes of these regulations
established in section
12-1-4 of this title.
   B.   Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision or partition greater than those required
by the Zoning Code or these regulations, such restrictions or reference thereto
may be required to be indicated on the subdivision plat or partition map, or
the City Council may require that restrictive covenants be recorded with the
County Clerk in a form to be approved by the City Attorney.
   C.   Monuments: The applicant shall have permanent reference monuments
placed in the subdivision or partition as required by Oregon Revised Statutes
92.050 to 92.070.
   D.   Character Of The Land: Land unsuitable for subdivision, partition or
development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements or other features
which will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of
the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding
areas shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are
formulated by the developer and approved by the City Council, upon
recommendation of the City Engineer, to solve the problems created by the
unsuitable land conditions. This land shall be set aside for uses as shall not
involve such a danger.
   E.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The City Council shall
have final authority to designate the name of the subdivision which shall be
determined at the time of tentative plan approval. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this Code.
2 2. See title 11 of this Code.
12-4-3: STREETS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Frontage On Improved Streets: No subdivision or major partition
shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and
access from an existing street. This street or highway must be suitably
improved as required by the highway rules, regulations, specifications or
orders, or be secured by a performance bond required under these regulations,
with the width and right-of-way required by these regulations.
      2.   Grading And Improvement Plan: Streets shall be graded and improved
and conform to the City construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted prior to final plat
approval.
      3.   Topography And Arrangement:
         a.   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local
roads shall be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of lot appearance.
All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the
building sites at or above the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall
conform as close as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep
grades and curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in the
design standards of these regulations.
         b.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of- way as established by
the Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   Road Names: The sketch plan as submitted shall not indicate any
names upon proposed streets. The Planning Commission shall name all streets at
the time of tentative plan approval in the case of a subdivision, or
preliminary map approval in the case of a major partition. Names shall be
sufficiently different in sound and spelling from other street names in the
City so as not to cause confusion. A street which is or is planned as a
continuation of an existing road shall bear the same name.
      5.   Road Regulatory Signs; Fee: The applicant shall deposit with the
City at the time of final subdivision or major partition approval a deposit to
be set by City Council resolution for each road sign required by the City
Engineer at all road intersections. The City shall install all street signs, to
be placed at all intersections within or abutting the subdivision or major
partition, the type and location of which to be approved by the City Engineer.
      6.   Street Lights: Street lights shall be installed by the developer in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the City
Engineer. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   General: In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, fire fighting, snow removal, sanitation and road maintenance
equipment and to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient system and
avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the design standards for roads
are hereby required as given in the Transportation System Plan, table 12, and
as follows. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
      2.   Road Surfacing And Improvements:
         a.   After sewer, water and other required utilities have been
installed by the developer, the applicant shall construct curbs and gutters and
shall surface roadways to the widths prescribed in these regulations. The
surfacing shall be of such character as is suitable for the expected traffic
and in harmony with similar improvements in the surrounding areas. Types of
pavements shall be as determined by the City Engineer. Adequate provisions
shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges. Each street shall have a
minimum of three inches (3") depth of asphalt.
         b.   All road pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and
structures, curbs, turnarounds and sidewalks shall conform to all construction
standards and specifications adopted by the City Council upon recommendation of
the City Engineer and shall be incorporated into the construction plans
required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
      3.   Excess Right-Of-Way: Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slope
shall not be in excess of three to one (3:1).
      4.   Intersections:
         a.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an
angle of less than seventy five degrees (75o) shall not be acceptable. An
oblique street should be curved approaching an intersection and should be
approximately at right angles for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom.
Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point.
         b.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either
intersection. Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be
at least eight hundred feet (800') apart.
         c.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) local streets
shall be at least twenty feet (20'); and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a collector street shall be at least twenty five feet (25'). Alley
intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall have the
corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe
vehicular movement.
         d.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent (2%) rate
at a distance of sixty feet (60'), measured from the nearest right-of-way line
of the intersecting street.
         e.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent necessary to provide a sight distance as provided in subsection
11-9-8A of this Code. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
      5.   Exceptions: The City may allow for variations in the design of
streets if requested by a developer or land use applicant and approved by the
Heppner Planning Commission. The applicant must demonstrate that the revised
street standard will provide the same amount of right-of-way and will meet the
City's transportation planning objectives to the same or a greater extent in
comparison to the typical street cross-sections found in the Transportation
System Plan. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
12-4-4: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: All subdivisions or major partitions shall have
adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins. The
stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary
sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the Rational
Method, or other methods as approved by the City Council and a copy of the
design computations shall be submitted along with the plans. Inlets shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, nor for a distance of more than six hundred feet (600') in the
gutter. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a
point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and
basins shall be used to intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage
patterns shall be shown for each and every lot and block.
   B.   Nature Of Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Location: The applicant may be required to carry away, by pipe or
open ditch, any spring or surface water that may exist either previously to or
as a result of the subdivision or partition. Such drainage facilities shall be
located in the road right-of-way where feasible or in perpetual unobstructed
easements of appropriate width and shall be constructed in accordance with the
construction standards and specifications recommended by the City Engineer and
adopted by the City Council.
      2.   Accessibility To Public Storm Sewers:
         a.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters,
subject to the specifications of the City Engineer. However, in subdivisions or
partitions containing lots less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in
area and in Business and Industrial Districts, underground storm sewer systems
shall be constructed throughout the subdivision or partition and be conducted
to an approved outfall. Inspection of facilities shall be conducted by the City
Engineer.
         b.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, the developer shall make arrangements for future stormwater
disposal at the time the plat receives final approval. Provision for such
connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the performance bond required
for the subdivision plat or partition plat.
      3.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision or partition. The City Engineer shall determine the necessary size
of the facility based on the provisions of the construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   Effect On Downstream Drainage Areas: The City Engineer shall also
study the effect of each subdivision or partition on existing downstream
drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision or partition. City
drainage studies, together with such other studies as shall be appropriate,
shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision or partition
will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the City Council may
withhold approval of the subdivision or partition until provision has been made
for the improvement of said potential condition in such a manner as the City
Council shall determine. The City Council may require dedication of a water
easement or drainage right-of-way where drainage studies indicate it is
necessary to protect the area in the subdivision or downstream development. No
subdivision or partition shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be
provided to an adequate drainage watercourse of facility.
      5.   Floodplain And Floodway Areas: Floodplain and floodway areas shall
be administered according to the City's Flood Area Management Ordinance 1  and
Federal and State regulations. All subdivisions shall be developed pursuant to
those regulations. The City Council, when it deems necessary for the health,
safety or welfare of the present and future population of the area and
necessary to the conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities, may
prohibit the subdivision or partition of any portion of the property which lies
within the floodplain or floodway of any stream or drainage course. (Ord. 512-
96, 1-8-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 13 of this Code.
12-4-5: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to provide a water
supply system capable of adequately meeting domestic water use and fire
protection requirements.
      2.   Where a public water main is accessible, the applicant shall install
adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) subject to the
specifications of State law. All water mains shall be at least six inches (6")
in diameter.
      3.   All water improvements shall conform to the construction standards
and specifications adopted by the City Council, upon recommendation of the City
Engineer and Planning Commission and shall be incorporated into the
construction plans required to be submitted by the developer for tentative plan
approval.
      4.   The location of all fire hydrants and all water supply improvements
shall be shown on the tentative plan and the cost of installing same shall be
included in the performance bond or other appropriate guarantee of financial
security furnished by the developer.
   B.   Individual Wells And Central Water Systems:
      1.   In low-density Residential Zones if a public water system is not
available, individual wells may be used or a central water system provided in
such a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to
every lot in the subdivision or partition. Water samples shall be submitted to
the appropriate government agency for its approval, and individual wells and
central water systems shall be approved by appropriate government agency.
Orders of approval shall be submitted to the City Council.
      2.   If the City Council requires that a connection to a public water
main eventually be provided as a condition to approval of an individual well or
central water system, the applicant shall make arrangements for future water
service at the time the plat or map has received final approval. Performance or
cash bonds may be required to ensure compliance.
   C.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions and
partitions except those coming under subsection B of this section. Fire
hydrants shall be located no more than five hundred feet (500') apart and
within five hundred feet (500') of any structure and shall be approved by the
City and appropriate fire district. To eliminate future street openings, all
underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants
themselves and all other supply improvements, shall be installed before any
final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat or partition plat. (Ord.
512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-4-6: SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by this title. All plans shall be designed in
accordance with the rules, regulations and standards of the City and
appropriate State and Federal agencies. Plans shall be approved by such
agencies. Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to provide sewerage
facilities to the subdivision.
   B.   Residential And Nonresidential Districts: Sanitary sewerage facilities
shall connect with the public sanitary sewerage system. Sewers shall be
installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by approving
officials and agencies. No individual disposal system or treatment plants
(private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted.
   C.   Mandatory Connection To Public Sewer System: If a public sanitary sewer
system is accessible and a sanitary sewer is placed in a street or alley
abutting upon property, the owner thereof shall be required to connect to said
sewer for the purpose of disposing of waste, and it shall be unlawful for any
such owner or occupant to maintain upon any such property an individual sewage
disposal system. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-4-7: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Required Improvements:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated nonpavement right-
of-way of all roads as given in the Transportation System Plan, table 12 and
figures 16 through 20. (Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
      2.   Concrete curbs are required for all streets. Standards for curbs
shall be as given in section
12-4-13, table 4 of this chapter.
      3.   Sidewalks shall be improved as required in subsection
12-4-3B2 of this chapter.
   B.   Pedestrian Accesses: The City Council may require, in order to
facilitate pedestrian access from the roads to schools, parks, playgrounds or
other nearby roads, perpetual unobstructed easements at least twenty feet (20')
in width. Easements shall be indicated on the plan, plat or map. (Ord. 512-96,
1-8-1996)
12-4-8: UTILITIES:
   A.   Location: All utility facilities, including but not limited to gas,
electric power, telephone and CATV cables, shall be located under ground
throughout the subdivision or partition. Wherever existing utility facilities
are located above ground, except where existing on public roads and rights-of-
way, they shall be removed and placed under ground. All utility facilities
existing and proposed throughout the subdivision or partition shall be shown on
the tentative plan or map. Underground service connections to the street
property line of each platted lot shall be installed at the developer's
expense. At the discretion of the City Council, the requirements for service
connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be
retained in single ownership and intended to be developed for the same primary
use.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   Easements centered on rear lot line shall be provided for utilities
(private and Municipal); such easements shall be at least ten feet (10') wide.
Proper coordination shall be established between the developer and the
appropriate utility companies for the establishment of utility easements
established in adjoining properties.
      2.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least ten feet (10') in width shall be provided along
side lot lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines.
Easements shall be indicated on the plan, plat or map. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-4-9: PUBLIC USES; PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION AREAS:
   A.   Recreation Standards: Land shall be reserved for parks and playgrounds
or other recreation purposes. Each reservation shall be of suitable size,
dimension, topography and general character and shall have adequate road
access, for the particular purposes envisioned by the City. When recreation
areas are required, the number of acres to be reserved shall be determined from
section
12-4-13, table 3 of this chapter, which has been prepared on the basis of
providing two (2) acres of recreation area for every one hundred (100) dwelling
units. The developer shall dedicate all such recreation areas to the City as a
condition of final subdivision or partition approval.
   B.   Minimum Size Of Park And Playground Reservations: In general, land
reserved for recreation purposes shall have an area of at least two (2) acres.
When the percentages from section
12-4-13, table 3 of this chapter, would create less than two (2) acres, the
City Council may require that the recreation area be located at a suitable
place on the edge of the subdivision or partition so that additional land may
be added at such time as the adjacent land is subdivided or partitioned. In no
case shall an area of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet be reserved
for recreation purposes if it will be impractical or impossible to secure
additional lands in order to increase its area. Where recreation land in any
subdivision or partition is not reserved, or the land reserved is less than the
percentage in section
12-4-13, table 3 of this chapter, the provisions of subsection D of this
section shall be applicable.
   C.   Recreation Sites: Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a
character and location suitable for use as a playground, playfield or for other
recreation purposes and shall be relatively level and dry; and shall be
improved by the developer to the standards required by the City Council, which
improvements shall be included in the performance bond or other guarantee of
financial security. A recreation site shall have a total frontage on one or
more streets of at least one hundred feet (100'), and no other dimension of the
site shall be less than one hundred feet (100') in depth. All land to be
reserved for dedication to the City for park purposes shall have prior approval
of the City Council and shall be shown marked on the plat or map, "Reserved for
Park and/or Recreation Purposes".
   D.   Alternative Procedure; Money In Lieu Of Land: Where, with respect to a
particular subdivision or partition, the reservation of land required pursuant
to this section does not equal the percentage of total land required to be
reserved in section
12-4-13, table 3 of this chapter, the applicant shall deposit with the City
Council a cash payment in lieu of land reservation prior to the final approval
of the subdivision plat or partition map. Such deposit shall be placed in a
Neighborhood Park and Recreation Improvement Fund to be established by the City
Council. Such deposit shall be used by the City for improvement of a
neighborhood park, playground or recreation area, including the acquisition of
property. Such deposit shall be used for facilities that will be actually
available to and benefit the persons in said subdivision or partition and be
located within one mile of the subdivision or partition. The City Council shall
determine the amount to be deposited, based on the following formula: five
hundred dollars ($500.00) multiplied by the number of times the total area of
the subdivision or partition is divisible by the required minimum lot size of
the zoning district in which it is located, less a credit for the amount of
land actually reserved for recreation purposes, if any, as the land reserved
bears in proportion to the land required for reservation in section
12-4-13, table 3 of this chapter.
   E.   Other Recreation Reservations: The provisions of this section are
minimum standards. None of the above shall be construed as prohibiting a
developer from reserving other land for recreation purposes in addition to the
requirements of this section. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-4-10: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
Existing features which would add value to the development or to the City as a
whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, historic and archeological sites
and similar irreplaceable assets shall be preserved in the design of the
subdivision or partition. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision or
partition nor any change of grade of land effected until approval of the
tentative plan or map has been granted. All trees on the plat or map required
to be retained shall be preserved, and all trees, where required, shall be
welled and protected against change of grade. The sketch plan (or tentative
plan in the case of a major partition) shall show the number and location of
existing trees, as required by these regulations, and shall further indicate
all those marked for retention, and the location of all proposed trees required
along the street side of each lot as required by these regulations. (Ord. 512-
96, 1-8-1996)
12-4-11: BICYCLE ROUTES:
If appropriate to the extension of a system of bicycle routes, existing or
planned, the City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, may
require installation of separate bicycle lanes within streets and separate
vehicle paths. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-4-12: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial
or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land
shall make such provision as the City Council may require.
      2.   A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance 1 . A nonresidential subdivision
shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as such
additional standards required by the City Council, and shall conform to the
proposed land use and standards established in the comprehensive plan 2  and
Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the City Council, that the
street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the type of industrial development anticipated.
      2.   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and
stormwater drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip, when necessary.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this Code.
2 2. See title 10 of this Code.
12-4-13: TABLES:
   TABLE 1
   DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ROADS
Roads:
 Minimum right-of-way width and minimum  
  surface width:
    Standards for minimum right-of-way width and minimum surfaced width can be
  found in the typical street cross-sections contained in the 2018
    Transportation System Plan
 Maximum grade (percent):                
  Arterial street                      8
  Collector street                     10
  Local street                         12
 Minimum grade                          0.5
 Minimum radius of curve (in feet):      
  Arterial street                      400
  Collector street                     300
  Local street                         200
Residential:                              
 Minimum length of tangents between      
  reverse curves (in feet):
  Arterial street                      300
  Collector street                     200
  Local street                         100
 Minimum sight distance (in feet):       
  Arterial street                      275
  Collector street                     200
  Intersection                         Across corners, 75 feet back
  Local street                         150
 Cul-de-sac maximum length (in feet) 1  200
 Cul-de-sac radius (in feet)            35
 Design speed (miles per hour):          
  Arterial street                      40
  Collector street                     35
  Local street                         25
 Width of accessway                     10
  Where emergency vehicle access is    20
    required
    (Accessways shall be provided connecting the ends of cul-de-sacs to each
    other, to other streets, or to neighborhood activity centers. Accessways
  for pedestrians and bicyclists shall be 10 feet wide and located with
    within a 20 foot wide right-of-way or easement. Stairs or switchback paths
    may be used where grades are steep.)
 Minimum length of vertical curves:      
  Arterial street                      300 feet, but not less than 50 feet
                                         for each algebraic difference in grade
  Collector street                     200 feet, but not less than 50 feet
                                         for each 1 percent
  Local street                         100 feet, but not less than 20 feet
                                         for each algebraic difference in grade
 Minimum asphalt depths:                 
  Arterial street                      4 inches
  Collector street                     3 inches
  Local street                         3 inches
 
Note:
    1.    Planning Commission may allow longer lengths.
   TABLE 2
   SIDEWALKS REQUIRED
See the 2018 Transportation System Plan.
   TABLE 3
   TABLE OF RECREATION REQUIREMENTS1
 
Size Of Lot                  Percentage Of Total Land In Subdivision To Be
                             Reserved For Recreation Purposes
40,000 square feet or larger 2.0 percent
20,000 square feet           4.0 percent
10,000 square feet or less   8.0 percent
 
Note:
    1.    Calculation on the basis of 2 acres per 100 dwelling units.
   TABLE 4
   CURB STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/402250a5809b2b3f4c92c70e31b5e7510b0ac9a0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1035.gif]
 
(Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996; amd. Ord. 542, 8-11-2003; Ord. 582-18, 10-8-2018)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED
SECTION:
12-5-1: Sketch Plan
12-5-2: Tentative Plan
12-5-3: Final Subdivision Plat Or Major Partition Plat
12-5-1: SKETCH PLAN:
The following shall be required:
   A.   Scale: Sketch plans shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more
than one hundred feet to an inch (100' = 1").
   B.   Name: The sketch plan shall show the name of the subdivision if
property is within an existing subdivision, and if not, it shall show the
proposed name which does not duplicate the name of any plat previously
recorded.
   C.   Ownership: The sketch plan shall show:
      1.   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor,
grantee, date and land records reference.
      2.   Citation of any existing legal right of way or easements affecting
the property.
      3.   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
      4.   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
person(s) responsible for subdivision design, for the design of public
improvements and for surveys.
   D.   Description: The sketch plan shall describe the location of property by
government lot, section, township, range and county, graphic scale, north arrow
and date.
   E.   Features: The following are the required features of the sketch map:
      1.   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
railroad right of way, watercourses and existing wooded areas or trees eight
inches (8") or more in diameter, measured four feet (4') above ground level;
location, width and names of all existing or platted streets or other public
ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract; names and addresses of
adjoining property owners from the latest assessment rolls within one hundred
feet (100') of any perimeter boundary of the subdivision.
      2.   Location, sizes, elevations and slopes of existing sewers, water
mains, culverts and other underground structures within the tract and
immediately adjacent thereto, existing permanent building and utility poles on
or immediately adjacent to the site and utility rights of way.
      3.   Approximate topography, with contour intervals of at least twenty
feet (20').
      4.   The approximate location and widths of proposed streets.
      5.   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water supply and
sanitary sewage systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and
sanitary waste treatment and disposal, preliminary provision for collecting and
discharging surface water drainage, accompanied by tentative approval by the
Department of Environmental Quality and other appropriate agencies.
      6.   The approximate location, dimensions and areas of all proposed or
existing lots.
      7.   The approximate location, dimensions and area of all parcels of land
proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use, or for
the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision.
      8.   The location of temporary stakes to enable City officials to find
and appraise features of the sketch plan in the field.
      9.   Whenever the sketch plan covers only a part of an applicant's
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of no more than
two hundred feet to the inch (200' = 1"), a sketch, in ink, of the proposed
subdivision area, together with its proposed street system and an indication of
the probable future street system and drainage system of the remaining portion
of the tract.
      10.   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of the
surrounding area. The sketch plan shall show all school and improvement
district lines with the zones properly designated. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-5-2: TENTATIVE PLAN:
   A.   Required: The following shall be required of a tentative subdivision
plan or major partition map:
      1.   Scale: The plan or map shall be drawn on a sheet eighteen inches by
twenty four inches (18" x 24") in size or a multiple thereof at a scale of one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or, for areas over one hundred (100)
acres, one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200').
      2.   Name: The plan or map shall show the name of the subdivision or
partition if property is within an existing subdivision and if not, it shall
show the proposed name which does not duplicate the name of any plan or map
previously recorded, as provided by ORS 92.090(1).
      3.   Ownership:
         a.   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property, and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision or major partition,
giving grantor, grantee, date and land records reference.
         b.   Citation of any existing legal right of way or easements
affecting the property.
         c.   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
         d.   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
person(s) responsible for subdivision or partition design, for the design of
public improvements and for surveys.
      4.   Description: The location of property by government lot, section,
township, range and county, graphic scale, north arrow, date and a legal
description.
      5.   Features:
         a.   Scale of drawing.
         b.   Appropriate identification of the drawing as a tentative plan or
map.
         c.   The location, widths and names of both opened and unopened
streets within or adjacent to the tract, together with easements and other
important features such as section lines, section corners, City boundary lines
and monuments.
         d.   Contour lines related to some established bench mark or other
datum approved by the City Engineer and having minimum intervals as follows:
            (1)   For slopes of less than five percent (5%): show the direction
of slope by means of arrows or other suitable symbol, together with not less
than four (4) spot elevations per acre, evenly distributed.
            (2)   For slopes of five percent (5%) to fifteen percent (15%):
five feet (5').
            (3)   For slopes of fifteen percent (15%) to twenty percent (20%):
ten feet (10').
            (4)   For slopes of over twenty percent (20%): twenty feet (20').
         e.   The location of at least one temporary bench mark within the
subdivision or partition boundaries.
         f.   The location and direction of perennial or intermittent
watercourses and the location of areas subject to flooding, including
informational sources relied on.
         g.   Natural features such as rock outcroppings, marshes, wooded areas
and isolated preservable trees.
         h.   Existing uses of the property and location of existing structures
to remain on the property after platting.
         i.   The location, width, names, approximate grades and radii of
curves of proposed streets. The relationship of streets to projected streets as
shown on the Comprehensive Plan or as suggested by the Planning Commission to
assure adequate traffic circulation.
         j.   A plan for domestic water supply lines and related water service
facilities.
         k.   Proposals for sewage disposal, storm water drainage and flood
control, including profiles of proposed drainageways.
         l.   Proposals for the improvements, such as electric utilities,
natural gas, sidewalks, cable TV, telephone lines, etc.
         m.   A donation to the public of all common improvements, including
but not limited to streets, roads, parks, sewage disposal and water supply
systems, the donation of which shall be a condition of approval of the
tentative plan.
         n.   The location, width and purpose of proposed easements.
         o.   The location and approximate dimensions of proposed lots and the
proposed lot and block numbers.
         p.   Proposed sites, if any, allocated for purposes other than single-
family dwellings.
   B.   The following may be required at the discretion of the Planning
Commission or the City Council. If the information cannot be shown practicably
on the tentative plan or map, it shall be submitted in separate statements
accompanying the plan or map.
      1.   A vicinity map showing existing subdivisions and unsubdivided land
ownerships adjacent to the proposed subdivision or partition and showing how
proposed streets and utilities may be extended to connect to existing streets
and utilities.
      2.   Proposed deed restrictions, if any, in outline form.
      3.   The location within the subdivision and in the adjoining streets and
property of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, drain pipes and electric
lines.
      4.   A sketch of a tentative layout for streets in the unsubdivided
portion if the subdivision proposal pertains to only part of the tract owned or
controlled by the subdivider.
      5.   Approximate center line profiles with extensions for reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision or partition, showing
the finished grade of streets and the nature and extent of street construction.
      6.   If lot areas are to be graded, a plan showing the nature of cuts and
fills and information on the character of the soil. (Ord. 512-96, 1-8-1996)
12-5-3: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT OR MAJOR PARTITION PLAT:
   A.   Information Required On Final Plat Or Map: The final subdivision plat
or partition plat shall be presented in India ink and shall contain all
information except for any changes or additions required by resolution of the
City Council showing on the tentative plan or map. In addition, the following
information shall also be shown on the final subdivision plat or partition
plat:
      1.   Reference points of existing surveys identified, related to the plat
or map by distances and bearings, and referred to a field book or map as
follows:
         a.   Stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the ground and used
to determine the boundaries of the subdivision or partition.
         b.   Adjoining corners of adjoining subdivisions or partitions.
         c.   Other monuments found or established in making the survey of the
subdivision or required to be installed by provisions of this Title.
         d.   All other requirements of ORS chapter 92.
      2.   The exact location and width of streets and easements intercepting
the boundary of the tract.
      3.   Tract, block and lot boundary lines and street right-of- way and
center lines, with dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, arcs,
points of curvature and tangent bearings. Normal high water lines and the 100-
year flood plain for any creek or other body of water. Tract boundaries and
street bearings shall be shown to the nearest thirty (30) seconds with basis of
bearings. Distance shall be shown to the nearest one one-hundredth foot
(0.01'). No ditto marks shall be used.
      4.   The width of the portion of streets being dedicated and the width of
existing right of way. For streets on curvature, curve data shall be based on
the street center line. In addition to the center line dimensions, the radius
and central angle shall be indicated.
      5.   Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified and, if
already of record, their recorded reference. If an easement is not definitely
located of record, a statement of the easement shall be given. The width of the
easement, its length and bearing and sufficient ties to locate the easement
with respect to the subdivision shall be shown. If the easement is being
dedicated by the map, it shall be properly referenced in the owner's
certificates of dedication.
      6.   Lot numbers beginning with the number "1" and numbered consecutively
in each block.
      7.   Block numbers beginning with the number "1" and continuing
consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the subdivision. The
numbers shall be solid, of sufficient size and thickness to stand out and so
placed as not to obliterate any figure. Block numbers in an addition to a
subdivision of the same name shall be a continuation of the numbering in the
original subdivision pursuant to ORS 92.090(1).
      8.   Identification of land to be dedicated for any purpose, public or
private, to distinguish it from lots intended for sale.
      9.   Building setback lines, if required, are to be made a part of the
subdivision restrictions.
      10.   Explanations of all common improvements required as conditions of
approval of the tentative plan, pursuant to subsection
12-5-2A5m of this Chapter.
      11.   The following certificates, which may be combined, where
appropriate:
         a.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title interest in the land, consenting to the preparation and recording
of the plat.
         b.   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating all
land intended for public use except land which is intended for the exclusive
use of the lot owners in the subdivision, their licensee, visitors, tenants and
servants.
         c.   A certificate with the seal of and signed by the City Engineer or
the surveyor responsible for the survey and final map.
         d.   A certificate of approval signed by the City Engineer stating
that streets and roads held for private use and indicated on the tentative plan
have been approved by the City pursuant to ORS 92.090(3)(b).
         e.   Any other certificates now or hereafter required by law.
   B.   Supplemental Information Required: The following data shall accompany
the final plat or map:
      1.   A preliminary title report issued by a title insurance company in
the name of the owner of the land, showing all parties whose consent is
necessary and their interest in the premises.
      2.   Sheets and drawings showing the following:
         a.   Traverse data including the coordinates of the boundary of the
subdivision and ties to section corners and donation land claim corners, and
showing the error of closure, if any.
         b.   The computation of distances, angles and courses shown on the
plat.
         c.   Ties to existing monuments, proposed monuments, adjacent
subdivisions, street corners and State highway stationing.
      3.   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the subdivision.
      4.   A copy of any dedication requiring separate documents.
      5.   A list of all taxes and assessments on the tract which have become a
lien on the tract.
      6.   A certificate by the City Engineer that the subdivider or land
partitioner has complied with the requirements of this Title. (Ord. 512-96, 1-
8-1996)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authorization
13-1-2: Findings of Fact
13-1-3: Statement of Purpose
13-1-4: Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
13-1-5: Definitions
13-1-6: General Provisions
13-1-7: Administration; Development Permit
13-1-8: Variances
13-1-9: Flood Hazard Reduction
13-1-10: Penalties for Noncompliance
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of Oregon has in Oregon Revised Statutes delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. (Ord.
463, 5-4-87)
13-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 463, 5-4-87)
   C.   Buoyant and Hazardous Materials and Special Flood Hazard Areas: Damage
resulting from buoyant materials carried by rising flood water is well known.
There is also a danger from hazardous materials placed or stored in flood
hazard areas. The City will monitor the placement or storage of buoyant and
hazardous materials within special flood hazard areas to insure the safety of
its citizens. The burden of proof rests with the applicant and is subject to
Planning Commission review. (Ord. 488-91, 7-8-91)
13-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 463, 5-4-87)
13-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
13-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: Includes sheds or garages that are exempt from elevation
or floodproofing requirements. Note subsection
13-1-9B4 of this chapter for explanation.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the Heppner planning commission's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT AND CRAWL SPACES: Any structure in a regulatory floodplain having its
lowest level (either finished or unfinished) below ground level (subgrade) on
all four (4) sides is not permissible under local flood damage prevention
ordinance requirements and the regulations governing the NFIP. Therefore,
neither basements nor excavated (subgrade) crawl spaces can be constructed in
the regulatory floodplain.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might
be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response installations,
installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste. Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
(100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities shall be
permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available.
Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor
elevated three feet (3') or to the height of the 500-year flood, whichever is
higher. Access to and from the critical facility should also be protected to
the height utilized above. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: A combustible, flammable, corrosive, explosive, toxic or
radioactive substance which is potentially harmful to humans and the
environment.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
13-1-9B1b of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of this chapter.
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS: Projects that are necessary to enhance or maintain
general public welfare. Such projects may include, but are not limited to,
flood control structures, public buildings, city infrastructures, utilities,
parks and projects associated with resource protection.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: built on a single chassis; four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection; designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the state of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such
as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
1. Before the improvement or repair is started, or
2. If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not, however, include either:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary
to assure safe living conditions; or
2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of historic
places or a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 463, 5-4-1987; amd. Ord. 488-91, 7-8-1991; Ord. 547-04, 9-13-2004; Ord.
561-07, 10-8-2007)
13-1-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 463, 5-4-
1987)
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The basis for
establishing the areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal
insurance administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The
Flood Insurance Study For The City Of Heppner, Oregon", dated December 18,
2007, with accompanying flood insurance maps are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file
at Heppner City Hall, 111 N. Main Street, Heppner, Oregon. (Ord. 561-07, 10-8-
2007)
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   E.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof or the federal insurance
administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
13-1-7: ADMINISTRATION; DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
13-1-6B of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in section
13-1-5 of this chapter, and for all development, including fill and other
activities, also as set forth in section
13-1-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the city and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
         c.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
13-1-9B2 of this chapter; and
         d.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
      3.   Permit for Storage of Buoyant or Hazardous Materials:
         a.   A special land use permit, requiring Planning Commission
approval, must be obtained prior to storing, placing or stockpiling buoyant or
hazardous materials in a flood hazard area.
         b.   Planning Commission Review of Special Permits to Store, Place or
Stockpile Buoyant or Hazardous Materials: In determining whether or not a
permit will be permitted to store, place or stockpile buoyant or hazardous
materials in a flood hazard area, the Planning Commission shall consider the
following:
            (1)   The nature of the materials; (e.g., buoyancy, toxicity,
flammability);
            (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other properties
or structures with resulting injury or damage;
            (3)   The necessity of locating the materials on the particular
site, especially in terms of public benefit;
            (4)   The ability of emergency vehicles to reach the site in times
of flooding;
            (5)   The availability of alternative locations which are less
susceptible to flooding; and
            (6)   The application's plan for hazard mitigation. (Ord. 488-91,
7-8-91)
   B.   Planning Commission Appointment; Duties: The Planning Commission is
hereby appointed to administer and implement this Chapter by granting or
denying development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   C.   City Manager; Duties and Responsibilities: Duties of the City Manager
shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this Chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
13-1-9D of this Chapter are met.
      2.   Use of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
13-1-6B, "Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard", the City
Manager may obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a Federal, State or other source, in order to
administer subsection
13-1-9B of this Chapter, "Specific Standards", and subsection
13-1-9C of this Chapter, "Floodways".
      3.   Information to be Obtained and Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study or required as in subsection C2, obtain and record the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not
the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection A2c of this Section.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this Chapter.
      4.   Alteration of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the appropriate State agencies
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood- carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      5.   Interpretation of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in Section
13-1-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 463, 5-4-87; 1995 Code)
13-1-8: VARIANCES:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   The Planning Commission, as established by the City, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
Chapter.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
City personnel in the enforcement or administration of this Chapter.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the City Council.
      4.   In passing upon such application, the Planning Commission shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this Chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and Flood Plain Management Program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A4 of this Section
and the purposes of this Chapter, the Planning Commission may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this Chapter.
      6.   The City Manager shall maintain the records of all appeal actions
and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
   B.   Conditions for Variances:
      1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one- half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing items A4a through A4k of this Section have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in this Section.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public as
identified in subsection A4 of this Section, or conflict with existing laws or
ordinances.
      6.   Variances, as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance Program,
are based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical
piece of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
      7.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry-
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria except subsection B1 of
this Section and otherwise complies with subsections 13-1-9A1 and A2 of this
Chapter, "General Standards".
      8.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 463, 5-4-87)
13-1-9: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMAs "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials and Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air- conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
         c.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less. (Ord. 463, 5-4-87)
      5.   Review of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available,
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source,
applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that the proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, the City's contour flood plain map, etc., where
available. Failure to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in flood
hazard areas may result in higher insurance rates. (Ord. 488-91, 7-8-91)
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
13-1-6B of this Chapter, "Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood
Hazard", or subsection
13-1-7C2 of this Chapter, "Use of Other Base Flood Data", the following
provisions are required: (Ord. 463, 5-4-87)
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to at least
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. (Ord. 499-93, 12-13-93)
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection 13-1-7C3b of this Chapter.
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section.
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as 1 foot below that level). (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on
sites:
            (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an
expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has
incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood;
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately designed foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         b.   Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on
sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30,
AH, and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the above
manufactured home provisions shall be elevated so that either: 1) the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation, or 2) the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to
an adequately designed foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. (Ord. 547-04, 9-13-2004)
      4.   All Accessory Structures: Accessory structures, such as sheds and
small unattached garages, located outside of the floodway may be exempt from
elevation and floodproofing standards, provided the following conditions are
met:
         a.   The accessory structures are not designed for human habitation;
         b.   The accessory structure shall be designed to have low flood
damage potentials;
         c.   Accessory structure shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of water; and
         d.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation which may result in damage to other structures. (Ord. 488-91, 7-8-
1991)
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, shall be attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
         c.   Meet the requirements of subsection B3 of this section and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes. (Ord. 547-04, 9-
13-2004)
   C.   Floodways: Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard
established in subsection
13-1-6B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply: (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional civil engineer is provided demonstrating thorough
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that encroachments shall not result in any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. (Ord. 547-04,
9-13-2004)
      2.   If subsection C1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
      3.   The city recognizes that utilities, flood prevention structures and
improvement projects that are in the public's best interest must sometimes
encroach on designated floodways. In compliance with FEMA regulations, the city
will permit floodway encroachments under the following conditions:
         a.   The city has determined the proposed project to be of public
necessity; and
         b.   FEMA has approved the proposed project. (Ord. 488-91, 7-8-1991)
   D.   Encroachments: The cumulative effect of any proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood area more than one foot
(1') at any point. (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987)
13-1-10: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a civil infraction. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall be assessed a class C infraction
pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. A
violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense for each day
the violation continues. (Ord. 463, 5-4-1987; amd. 1995 Code; Ord. 546-04, 6-
14-2004)
